ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, representatives of the Government who do not yet exist! I'm starting with the 29th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Eva Irgl, Janja Klasinc, Ljubo Germič, Alojzi Potočnik, mag. Vasja Klavora, Zmago Jelinčič, Andrej Magajna, Jožef Jerovšek, Matevž Frangež by 17:00, mag. Franc Znidarsic from 15:00 on. I am also informed from the representatives of the Government that the meeting cannot be attended by Minister Boštjan Žekš. We're moving on to 12. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Commission considers that the aid granted to the Union constitutes State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, is compatible with the internal market and is compatible with the internal market. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of four Members and a first-signed Mr Ivan Grill. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the National Assembly to hold a general debate on the draft law. [[advertising from the hall]] The microphone's on. Didn't you hear that? Excuse me? The microphone was on. If you want, I'll check again. In order to further explain the bill, I give the floor to Mr Ivan Grill, representative of the law's motions. Mr. Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. I do not know whether we no longer have a government or are ignoring this law, which is extremely important for one part of Slovenia. Mr. Anderlich, then you will continue. We have prepared a proposal for a law on development support for the White Krajina from 2013 to 2016 in the Slovenian Democratic Party for the reason that we are trying to help this area, which has suffered poor economic results in Slovenia, which are already more reflected there. The white landscape in which the municipalities Črnomelj, Metlika and Semič are located lies in the south-eastern part of Slovenia and is part of the so-called South-Eastern Slovenia statistical region. Because of poor transport, utility and telecommunications infrastructure, it has been declining economically from year to year and is now among the most underdeveloped areas in Slovenia. The disastrously poor economic situation in Slovenia has particularly affected worse areas than, of course, the White landscape. Its economy is now practically on the verge of survival, and a large rate of unemployment is also appropriate. The current unemployment rate for the whole of the White Country is already over 14% and with the forgiveness of almost 1,000 Secop workers will be even higher. Such a situation must, of course, be addressed without delay and with intervention measures, as well as with appropriate financial resources. In the SDS, we are convinced that the implementation of the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development and the publication of some calls to promote the development of the Pocolpas are far from sufficient that such a situation would not continue to deteriorate rapidly, let alone to start improving. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are convinced that only through an intervention law, which also provides a significant part of the financial means, can we stop and reverse the trend towards minimal development. Such a law can create conditions for the start of restructuring and development of other Slovenian regions by means of a programming approach and by providing financial resources to support the development of the White Country from new and existing programmes and by providing financial support to other Slovenian regions and by mitigating the consequences of the financial and economic crisis. In addition to €619 million in funding, this law provides for the development support of the White Country: the preparation and implementation of transport infrastructure investment programmes, which is extremely important for the White Country and the creation of a quality road at the motorway crossing of the Republic of Slovenia at the New Town and, of course, the modernisation of the regional road and railway infrastructure. Another extremely important development measure is to build and improve energy infrastructure with 110 kilovolt remote on the Kočevje-Crnomelj route. The third development measure is the preparation and implementation of a programme to promote the competitiveness of the White Country in the period 2013-2016. The next step is development support to encourage employment. The measure should allow employers to apply a reduction of the tax base by 70% of the worker’s costs. The employer who would employ a worker for a period of two years shall be reimbursed for the employer's social security contributions. The law provides for tax reliefs for investment. The measure will encourage legal persons established in the White Country to apply a reduction in the tax base of 70% of the amount invested to new investments in equipment and intangible assets to do so. With some other measures, the key objective of this Act is therefore to open up new jobs and preserve existing jobs and to promote activities that bring higher added value and develop the comparative advantages of the region. The combination of different instruments aims to mitigate the consequences of the financial and economic crisis that has affected the White Country. Finally, let me say that we are aware that there will be a lot of concerns by the Government and probably also by the coalition, mainly about the amount of €619 million allocated to the development of the White Country. Let us all remember that this is only the amount that Slovenia owes in three months, and this means that we should devote three months to Slovenia's debt, so that this important part can begin to be solved from an extremely poor economic situation. I hope this law gets support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u3	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present his position on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u4	Thank you, Madam President. Colleagues and colleagues! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the proposal for a law on development support to the White Country in the period 2013-2016. There are some very difficult arguments in the DeSUS Group that raise doubts and in-depth reflection on whether or not we should support the law. The applicants suggested that the situation in the White landscape should be resolved in the way it was used in the Pomur region, by means of a special law. This is not to be overlooked and forgotten that when the development law for the Pomur region was adopted, regional policy did not have a systemic solution to address development problems such as those in the Pomur region. At the beginning of this year, however, a new Act on the promotion of coherent regional development was adopted, which introduced instruments for declaring the so-called high unemployment problem area, which systematically addresses such cases. The adoption of intervention laws for individual areas has therefore become unnecessary. We cannot deny that the situation in the White landscape is extremely difficult, but the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has already responded to the situation in the beginning of this year with the establishment of the Development Council for the White Krajina and Kočevsko and Medresor Commission for the Coordination of Development Support Measures for the Pomurska Region and Pokolpu. As soon as the new System Act on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development was implemented, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia declared the area of Poklopja, the area of Bela krajina and Kočevskoh as a problem area with high unemployment, in accordance with the powers laid down by the new law. It adopted a Regulation on the implementation of endogenous regional policy measures and a Decision on additional temporary development support measures for the problem area with high unemployment in the Pocolpium. Also, on 7 April 2011, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia adopted the Programme for Promoting Competitiveness and Development Support Measures for the Cholepium 2011-2016. The first invitation to tender for undertakings in Pokolpu was issued already in May 2011, only two months after the entry into force of this Act. In the DeSUS Group, we also believe that the proposal cannot be justified by the current crisis situation in this area, as it should only be applied 1. 1. 2013 The bill also refers only to a part of the area of Pocolpia, which represents a circular area with similar development problems. The prioritisation of the area of the white landscape over the Kočevsko region is not justified by statistical indicators. In the DeSUS Group, among other obstacles to supporting the proposal, we see another problem, namely that the proposal for a law significantly increases the level of resources to implement the development support measures of the White Krajina Government, as determined by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The total value of the additional measures is €619 million in four years. As already stated, the value of government measures is €288 million in development support over six years, without taking into account the financial effects of employment incentives and tax incentives for investments. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the large volume of the proposed funds is disproportionate to the resources that the Republic of Slovenia has earmarked to address development problems in other comparable areas. The law on development support to the Pomurska region, for example, allocates EUR 248 per year to the population, without taking into account financial effects, tax incentives and employment incentives. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by means of measures taken, allocated EUR 1 000 per capita to the College annually, taking into account the specificity of Pocolp, where transport infrastructure is a key development obstacle for the construction of which more financial resources are needed. However, the proposed legislation seeks to provide a total of EUR 5 000 749 per year for development support measures per capita in the White Region, which is clearly a huge difference. The government has prepared seven additional measures of development support for Pocolpium, incentives for active employment policy and public investment in transport infrastructure, for example, a third development axis project in the area, and other activities of ministries are being carried out. In the DeSUS Group, we believe that the Government for the White Land and Pocolupia have in general prepared a number of measures, but of course they need to be implemented. This is primarily the responsibility of local communities, whether they know, are able and, above all, are willing to activate their own power to solve the crisis, which is present throughout the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that the adoption of such a law would mean favouring certain areas in Slovenia, so we refer to the fact that the country has adopted systemic solutions also for Pokolpje and that this problem of Pokolpija should also be resolved in a systematic manner, as specified in the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u5	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u6	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! On 23 November last year, we discussed the proposal for a law on development support to the region of Korea for the period 2012-2016. We said yes in the Slovenian National Party at the time. On 22 October 2009, we discussed the proposal for a law on development support to the Pomurska region in the period 2010-2015. We also said yes in the Slovenian National Party at that time. And our relationship will be no different with the proposal for a law on development support to the White Country in the period 2013-2016. We'll say yes. We have not long considered and adopted the Law on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development, which, like the law, should generally solve the problems of non-compliance between different statistical regions, 12 of them in the State of the Republic of Slovenia, while we probably all, although we agreed with this law, knew that this was a declared general law that would not help anything. Unfortunately, such problems need to be addressed in a partial way, separately for each of the existing statistical regions, because we do not have regions at the second level. We are now in the process of dealing with and supporting the White Land. We are talking about three municipalities: Črnomelj, Metlika and Semič, the data that the unemployment rate for the whole of the White Country exceeded 14%. About the large number of workers fired, about the dwindling of small economies and entrepreneurship, about the underprivileged provision of health care and about poor road infrastructure, which is even estimated to be the worst in the country. Data which are then numbered and visually defined. What can you do to make sure it doesn't happen again? But interestingly, I took the data that I have, and what is happening to the balance right now with the balance of this country? And I did this data or let's look at this comparison together. [[...]] The White Krajina Development Support Bill is about developing a small economy, a entrepreneurship that has been heavily engulfed. Let us look at the balance sheet of this country, which reduces funding by 146 million in the area of entrepreneurship and competitiveness. In this law, we want to help in this area with money, which is being reduced by the country in the balance sheet by EUR 146 million. Let's move on. They are deprived of their health care in the White Landscape. The State of the Republic of Slovenia is reducing its investment in health by €28 million in the balance sheet. We have entrepreneurship, we have competitiveness, we want help for so many millions, we take them away. We have a desire for better health care in White Krajina, minus 28 million. Poor road, rail infrastructure: in the country, in the balance sheet, reduce items, transport money by 100 million. I don't know if we are in the National Assembly, I think we're still the first legislative branch of power, and we need to know what we're doing, obviously we don't know what we're doing. We have a law that screams for help in the areas of entrepreneurship, transport, health care; in parallel, we take money peacefully in these areas, as if we were making fun of each other. Okay, you're gonna say it, but this country is in such a state that it doesn't go any differently. It's not like it's any different. So much more is jesting if we look forward to reducing the cost of rebalancing by almost 500 million, yet savings will be lower by almost 250 million, if not more. So not 500, as it turns out, but savings will be only 250. You're gonna ask why? However, because that part of the savings will be of 500 million, that is to say 250 around, intended to service public debt and to pay in the budget of the European Union. When you get on a plane and when you're driving, the advice is: "If there's a reduction in air pressure, those breathing appliances relax and first, they say, give it to yourself, then to others. Help yourself first, so you can help others." We don't have that kind of saying in this country. We need to be healthy to help others who are sick. We need to help ourselves first so that we can help others. I agree if we went to some club that we had to follow the rules. If we are in the European Union, we must cooperate and be one country. I agree. I agree that it is our duty to cooperate as well as other countries. I agree. The day and the moment we can. When we are provided at home, we will be happy to help others. However, when we consider the third development law for the endangered Slovenian region and this evidently threatened region, we are quietly squeezing the state budget in the balance, right on those items they need, without anyone being "spected" for the millions we have and will give them to Greece. For the millions we are giving with the Portuguese guarantee, for what it says today, the stories with Greece will continue. Well, we help others, but we don't help ourselves. I don't know what our relationship is. We live in two countries, the Republic of Slovenia, this is our home country, our country, and together we decided to go to Europe. We'll save our country first. We helped Prekmurje, unfortunately Koroška no, let's at least help the White Krajina, and it won't be the only region, I'll tell you that. In maybe three, four months or six months from now, the Zasavska region, the statistical region, will be the one that will ask for such assistance and there are some that are at risk. We're deaf to them. For them in the area where it is needed, we take the money from the budget. And what we're supposed to save is once again: savings on the budget balance could be 500 million, but only 250 or less, because we're going to give the savings that we're going to take from the Slovenes and the Slovenes to foreigners, not to ourselves. Is that fair? It's not fair. Because when we run out of air on the plane, if we don't give ourselves a mask first, we won't be able to give it to our child, because we're going to collapse first. This country will collapse before it can help itself if it gives to others. It's not easy for this country. I understand, and I believe it's not easy to find 620 million. But if I compare, we found 500 of them in these cramps, and there's only 200 left. I don't know what to say. I don't understand this policy anymore. Personally and also other colleagues, we still did, and I said publicly, we respected Mr Borut Pahor, we understood that he was having a hard time, we knew that he wanted good, that he was a good person, and I believe that today. Only after everything we talked about yesterday about the third development axis, where there is no development at all, but we only talked about the third axis, which also touched the White Country. With all that we are saying today and all that we are comparing, it is obvious that it does not prove that we are actually witnessing the planned destruction of this country. And I never wanted to believe it. I still don't understand, there's a third aid law ahead of us, maybe there was another one we missed, and I think it was written by a colleague from the Slovenian People's Party and discussed it on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. So, we've been talking about four, and that's how it's gonna be. Let's face it, Slovenia, a small beautiful country, we still have great numbers compared to the macro-economic picture, with other countries in the European Union, we stick to them. But with them, we're gonna lose all ratings, not because of that, but because we're gonna destroy ourselves. A man values himself first, then others will appreciate you. That's right. The State of the Republic of Slovenia should first value itself, its people who are decent, conscientious, hardworking, then we will appreciate and help others. The fact is that there is a severe collapse in the White landscape, we are witnessing the move of the Slovenian company to Slovakia, which is the greatest absurdity. Our company is moving to Slovakia, we give money to Greece and the Slovaks say no. Apparently they prefer to give it to a Slovenian company, which, of course, is better and better for me as a Slovenian than for another. Unfortunately, that's the way it is. Instead of going elsewhere to Slovenia, Slovenians go elsewhere. There's probably a lot of reasons, even different, I believe. There are also reasons for the various meddling of individuals, but the important reason is that people do not have to go anywhere else, as for bread everywhere, because, as we have seen from this data, stories are closing. Let's help them one way. I'm not in favor of partial laws. I am in favour of the Act to promote coherent regional development in order to help coordinate regional development in order to help people. If not, I will support this bill along with my colleagues from the Slovenian National Party with the aim and desire to help these people. Of course, I don't know how when I've compared this data, when it's in areas that are most critical here, and not just here, somewhere else, that they're lowering the funds in the budget balance. I hope that these data, which are previous in this rebalancing, may be quickly confused together, because they are completely illogical and they are challenged, I am against the fact that the distinguished Mr. Prime Minister has tied his trust to the balance of the budget, because by doing so he has put a loop around his neck, because if we accept it, then we are no longer prudent, because we are lowering the core, the essence of what would encourage the economy, we are lowering, and we are increasing – I understand that it is bad – and we are increasing social transfers, so we will give again to those who, once again, it is bad if someone is unemployed, but there are many who do not want to work. [[...]] We'll give someone another fish instead of allowing them to fish. There we increase expenditure and reduce it in the area of entrepreneurship and competitiveness and the development of a small economy. It's complicated, I'm sorry, with every economic logic. And that kind of balance, if he comes out, if we accept him, then we're in a lot of trouble. But I don't want to, personally, I don't want to, personally, to help people in the White Land, to get this balance out of hand, and to say, if we run out of money, darlings, I'm sorry, the third tranche of Slovenia won't pay Greece until it gets to the green branch, and then we'll pay you with the delay, just like we paid the first one if we've already committed ourselves. And let us freeze the guarantee that we have given in billions of dollars, freeze it, because we ourselves are not capable, and we will unfreeze this guarantee when we Slovenians can. First, let us ask again, let us be Slovenians and help colleagues who live in different but beautiful parts of this country: from White landscape to Gorenjska, from Prekmur to Primorska and the central part and all. Let's admit it, let's stop politicizing and admit it. First there are White Krajina, Prekmurje, Koroška, Styria, Zasavje, and then there will be our dear friends from a great European country: Spain, Italy, Portugal, Greece and so on, but first there will be Slovenia. And in fact, there is no way out now to compare this, of course this is comparable, once again, it is comparable from the data that savings in after-rebalancing costs will be 500 million, but Slovenia will have less than 250. That difference saved at the expense of the Slovenes and Slovenes, but we will put it out, that is a fact, and after that we can no longer, this Slovenia, forgive, cannot and will no longer tolerate, if not the second or next year, we will ask almost certainly for this help. But when we get it, we will have to pay it back for all the debts we already have, which is, in Slovenian, I will say "mission impossible", the first, the second or the third part of this film. In the Slovenian National Party we will do the same as in the other two laws, we will vote in favour of this law, if not, in order to symbolically say that Slovenia needs help, that we are here first to help ourselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Anderlich will present the position of the LDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u8	Your Honor! We have to deal with the bill, which at first sight promises a lot of promise to people in distress, but when we take a closer look, we see that this is not the case and that it is far from that. First of all, it is supposed to start applying only in 2013 and is a bad copy of that law that we recently adopted as Prekmurje. If anything, then it must be made very clear that after the adoption of the law for Prekmurje, Pomurje has adopted a system law on the promotion of coherent regional development aimed at all regions, all those areas which are necessary for the assistance of the State and can also be provided in a different way from a legal point of view. It is true that this law particularly exposes Pokolpje, Kočevska, Bela krajina and in this part this law is also a whim and is unjust to that second part, Kočevsky, which is specifically highlighted in the Law on Harmonized Regional Development. It is simply that the government, when it came to the National Assembly with the Systemic Law, has accepted it by a large majority at that time, irrespective of its position or opposition, I think that it has responded to the difficult situation in the White Region very effectively, quickly and already this year, funds are being allocated for certain areas where the 7 measures mentioned in this Act, from encouraging entrepreneurship, tax incentives to better supply electricity in this area. It is certain that the Development Council for the White Land and the Cavalry has carried out its role and that it will be able to follow up on activities and will be able to contribute a great deal through this. I don't know what the view of this developing world is about this particular law, because I haven't been able to read it, but I miss it. As I understand it, before the introduction of this law, when it came to this, he was sitting in the development world, and he was not in favour of such a partial way of resolving these issues. After we have asked ourselves in detail in the Liberal Democracy, however, we are also concerned by the answers we receive through the system law, we believe that the better is in a separate way, in the way that only three municipalities are adopted by law, not entirely for an area that was then recognized as such when the system law is adopted, i.e. handicapped, degraded, in severe troubles and so on. The country can do a lot in building infrastructure, and I believe that activities for the third development axis will accelerate, as well as to modernise the road, to be a Partisan, who I know will be closed within a month because of reconstruction works and similar things. It can do much about energy supply, it can do something else, it can certainly not open jobs, it can provide, and if you read in detail the Government's explanation, which you say is irresponsible, because today it is not here under such an important law, but it has already prepared it. In the seven measures you have precisely defined: to promote competitiveness, to facilitate tax relief and to exempt contributions, and so on. By speaking here in a way that we all act as if the White Land is the very last and that no one sees it, no one hears it, and that it does not want to help it, is not proper, is not fair – not to that government, which you say is a failure, but to the point itself. Take a look at the Law on Promoting Coherent Regional Development, I stress – it was adopted after the Prekmurje Act was passed, precisely because it was found that it was not possible to adopt separate laws and we had no system law until then, so we supported that. And it was immediately followed by a system law. If you look at the government's explanation and concrete measures, you'll see that this is what I'm talking about. Because in the Liberal Democracy we want exactly what the law already provides for this year, but not just to start in 2013, because aid is the most effective if it comes quickly if it comes when someone really needs it. There have been major problems and I am sorry that the Belarusians failed on this last call for broadband. But where did it get stuck? He's not at Golobic, it wasn't ready. Look, you see, this is a delusion, Mr. Grill, these are lies. [[...]] You go take a look, you have the right to request access to the invitation to tender, the documentation and where the errors have been. Yeah, well, it's got to be the right thing to do. The fact that they have failed to help prepare for the invitation to tender in order to ensure all conditions is of interest to me, too, why not. Because just as the congregations are responsible for applying properly, it is also likely that with the strong administrations and officials that we have, there are also instructions that can also be correct, etc. But this is already another discussion, and I will certainly be asking this government or the next one, because it seems to me that it is our responsibility, but in all this it is a matter of supporting or not supporting the law, and unfortunately, as I have explained, we will not support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u9	Thank you very much. Position, please! [[...]] Did you guys finish your conversation? What? Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u10	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Let me introduce that in the Group of Non-Aligned Members we assess that intensive thinking and action is needed towards development support for those who are at risk of development, and we know that the proposed law directs attention to one area and that more is needed for such areas. Some may even be more than the area quoted. Therefore, for the introduction, we support solutions that go in the direction of aiding development potentials in individual environments. It is true, however, that we are more committed to systemic measures than ad hoc intervention measures, which are not necessarily the best, although it is called an "intervention measure" that we would react immediately, and we see that in this case it is not even a phase delay in the envisaged measures. The notorious truth is that individual regions in Slovenia are very different and the notorious truth is also that developmental differences are increasing. It is interesting that they have increased even in the last year, even in the area where we have taken an intervention measure for Pomurje, because statistics show that the number of employees in Pomurje is steadily increasing, that the number of companies in Pomurje is increasing dramatically, and even if the gross social product is increasing, this is not all evidence of a development breakthrough there. The data provided by the SVR tell us that the development backlog is also increasing there, as productivity increases at a lower rate than in Slovenia and the added value increases at a lower rate than in Slovenia. In other words, physical growth in the economy alone does not yet mean a shift in development, but we are talking about helping individual areas in a systematic way in order to increase their development potential, not just physical, simple growth. As it is a matter of learning that developmental differences are increasing, that they are already large and that intervention measures do not necessarily bring development breakthroughs, the government has proposed and the National Assembly has adopted a proposal for a law on reducing development differences in Slovenia and, even after the law has been adopted, has taken specific measures in relation to this law. Therefore, this Law on Promoting Coherent Regional Development is supposed to be the one that gives opportunities, instruments, criteria for how we will help different development areas in Slovenia. I believe it is even more important if the government allocates as often as possible funds for calls for proposals that focus on development potential and one such call is behind us and also the South East statistical region in Slovenia has been more or less successful and has received about 15 million funding for targeted development programmes. In spite of this, the proposers do not consider that the Law on Promoting more coherent regional development and not these targeted calls are not sufficient, so they have proposed a new proposal for an intervention ad hoc law, which is, by structure and content, quite similar to other attempts that we have witnessed from different regions in Slovenia. This is mainly about transport and municipal infrastructure. It is mainly about competition programmes, reducing tax burdens on investors and facilitating employment, and this is what it would seem to be in each region, but this is what some new project offices have been most helpful. We do not consider ourselves in the Group of Non-Aligned Members as such, this is not enough for the developmental breakthroughs, this may be enough to replace what is indeed lagging behind individual areas in terms of infrastructure provision, but infrastructure itself is not enough to provide long-term development. Another feature of this law is that it is approximately, or in fact, a total of 90 % of the funds would be earmarked for walls. These are not funds intended for those soft measures. They are not funds for innovation, for better technology, for human resources, but are resources that are expected to be the fastest and, of course, with the best results in the construction sector, but which is not exactly a sector to ensure the fastest development under any criterion we look at. Dynamics, that's the third feature of this law. Dynamics, with some phase delay that we do not understand, do not know why the measures that have already been taken and which are, in other words, our everyday life for this area would be replaced by measures that will take about a year and a half. Of course, it should be noted, as has already been pointed out, that, if I may use this term, some narrow area with a relatively small population, because when we compare the funds allocated to the White Krajina, we find that they are, with multiple times, greater than those allocated to other endangered areas, even up to 20 times higher for the individual population of that area. We believe that such action by such intervention laws, which would over-privileged individual areas, would be unfair and would in fact challenge the ground to the newly adopted law and to the barely adopted measures on its basis, measures which are also intended for the White Land, but not only for it, a slightly wider area which is gravitated by its interests to some common objectives, and which are probably sufficiently supported by the measures taken by the Government by the decision. This is about €300 million, which is not a small contribution to the area we are talking about in terms of incentives for development. Therefore, in the belief that measures to promote development are necessary, we will support such measures, but we believe that the measures already taken by the Government are appropriate, and therefore we do not need another additional law to challenge the foundations of the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u12	Thank you very much. Dear colleagues and colleagues! We have another attempt at partial regulation of coherent regional development with intervention law on the table. The Group of Social Democrats is and is still committed to integrated and systemic solutions, so we will not support this bill, even if it is well-intentioned. The reasons for our opposition lie in the fact that in this mandate we have already rejected two laws with similar content, namely the Proposal for a Law on Development Support for the Municipality of Maribor and the municipalities of Zgornje Podravska Region and the Proposal for a Law on Development Support for the Koroška Region. In both proposals, we understood the objectives of the proposalrs in our parliamentary group, but we thought at the time, and we also believe now that partial solutions and the multiplication of intervention laws do not produce the desired results. We are still in favour of the view that regional development mismatches cannot be solved in this way, as the partiality of solutions encourages problems to increase. In adopting the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, we have advocated coherent and sustainable regional development, which can only be achieved through systemic solutions that enable regional policy to function. This law represents a systemic solution to regional development inequalities and contains systemic ways and forms of intervention options in the context of economic and other crises, both at the level of the State and its institutions, as well as at the level of individual areas, regions and their regional development institutions. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia has recognised the problems of the area under the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development and has already adopted a Decision on additional temporary measures of development support for the problem area with high unemployment in Pocolpija, which is also an integral part of the Programme for the Promotion of Competitiveness and Development Support Measures in the Pocolpium, 2011-2016. In this Decision, the Government shall impose on the ministries and government services, in accordance with the third and fourth paragraphs of Article 25 of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development from 2011 to 2016, on the Pocolpian area as a priority area for development policies. In this regard, the government has adopted seven measures of development support to the Pocolpium in a total indicative value of €221 million. The funds are intended to promote competitiveness, repay paid social security contributions, tax incentives for employment, investments, incentives for sustainable rural development, guarantees with interest rate subsidies for investment loans to enterprises, and for transport and electricity infrastructure. Of course, there is a balance between the state budget, which must be saved and a number of debates today show that we will also be against such forms of savings. We were, or they were, against abolishing and persecuting the grey economy. They were against small work, against pension reforms and so on, and I must assess that you are doing well – the worse, the better! Clearly, this policy is now in place in this country. For all of this, we believe that the proposed law is unnecessary to multiply partial systemic solutions, so we will not support the bill in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u14	Dearly beloved everyone, also on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! The border areas in each country are the ones most exposed and each democratic state pays particular attention to them, gives them special reliefs, opens up new additional development opportunities. This is the policy of any of our neighbours, if you want, from Italy and then we can make a circle of our neighbouring countries. Unfortunately, the situation in Slovenia appears to be quite different. The white landscape is a very beautiful country and if you paraphrased the great writer Cankar you could also say: from there come and live the good and business people. But in order to develop their development potential to develop small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, they need that basic fence, the development fence, from which we all benefit. White landscape itself as a border area, because it is strengthened because it is less under the impact of migration, the outflow of the best quality personnel, people can stay at home, return there and on the other hand because it is economically strengthened, with this new economic power paying more taxes, more contributions from communities and finally we all live better. This is the logic that every country knows, unfortunately, about this simple and plausible logic in Slovenia we talk little about, sometimes there seems to be no room in the public discourse except for the affairs of these fundamental fundamental development issues. However, when it comes to the relationship of the current government to the White Land, I think it was beautifully demonstrated at the beginning of this point when there was no one from the government. Empty chairs. This is the one: "Afar from the eyes, far from the heart", and so is the relationship all the time and such a relationship you have unfortunately demonstrated in some of the ruling coalition today in your opening presentations. White landscape faces the consequences of extremely poor government over the past two years - like all Slovenia, but the situation in the White landscape is even worse than in Slovenia on average, due to certain special circumstances. Some are historically conditioned, developmental, and some are the product of almost incredible coincidences. Indeed, the collapse of the largest economic operator in the White Krajina in the past period, the former Danfoss in Montenegro, is actually a very special situation, because it is a matter of disintegrating the factory, because in fact it is a matter of abolishing the factory, only because of the generational change of owners. And those who then took over this company no longer had any interest in maintaining well-run and also relatively good on the market of accepted production. This is why they are facing major problems there today, what for such a small part of Slovenia and so exposed, moving behind the hills, means the collapse of one of such factories or companies, says a simple comparison that there is almost no house in that area where not one of them would be employed either in the company itself or in those who directly cooperated with it, and therefore, of course, problems are now disproportionately greater there. This is also why this part of Slovenia deserves help. Some of you are arguing that the government has already taken care of it, stated, quote, "a commission has been set up." You know, it's like Churchill once said, "If you want to drag one thing into infinity, then you set up a commission." And without offense, but only from the establishment of one White Krajina commission does it have a great deal: so much so that it pays the costs of this commission, as it already pays the costs of operating on a developmental basis, that I will not say anything else, the government. What, then, does the White Land urgently need? When we went there and talked to entrepreneurs, with people who are willing to develop little, medium-sized entrepreneurship, already have progenitors or run away in some small amount of production of individual goods, they generally say, they would open up so many and so many good jobs with high added value, our plans allow this, and then the most confusing Slovenian word "outdar" comes, but in order to do this, we need a stable and good supply of electricity, because it is absurd that we still have a landscape in Slovenia, and that is the White Country where the entrepreneur who wants to invest in some additional machines that are generally sensitive, in the production that is hand-bound, must take into account that there is no spare, stable power available. That's really amazing. This is like the old "South" in 1971, but the people of God, it is independent Slovenia 40 years later, and it faces such banal problems that people who want to invest in new, quality jobs that have the resources to do so have ideas have a good product to be able to provide adequate personnel, at this point they do not hope to realize because they do not have a stable source of power. And that's why we specifically put an extra wire into this law. The remotes are already on schedule. Unfortunately, they haven't been realized. And then, when we solve this problem, or when it comes to some other possible entrepreneurship that does not face this problem to such a large extent, something else opens up. The word "outdar" comes again – but we could develop this if we had the right transport links if we had the right infrastructure. Unfortunately, if you look at plans for further development of the network of motorways and fast roads in Slovenia, you will see that the White Landscape disappeared again somewhere in there, at that time we called it "a bright future". In the White landscape, they do not currently have a high-quality road connection, which would be a direct link between this border area and then be connected to the system of motorways in Slovenia. Of course, there are regional roads, but these roads are such that the driver gets a lot better driving and, as a rule, he is assisted by other friendly police officers who do their work there literally at each turn, and the result is that traffic takes place slowly, that for some of the more difficult transport modes not simply meet all the conditions, many are already looking at Croatia, and it is also very clear here: if Slovenia does not do everything to tighten up its landscape to enable it to fully develop, someone else will probably jump into this development vacuum sooner or later. Is this in Slovenian national interest? I'm saying no. Each country, a democratic country in Europe, such as neighbouring Italy, invests and promotes development in its border areas and is concerned about the good infrastructure links between these border areas and the central part of the country, as this is in the interest of the development of the whole community as a whole. So why don't you take care of it in the White Land? The proposed law also provides for appropriate road links, measures and, of course, adequate resources. Not all the funds covered by this law reach even billions of euros. This is about €100 million, about €620 million in size, which is very comparable to what Slovenia is now giving to help Greece, which, by the way, is going to go bankrupt in a short period of time, or has been declared informally yesterday's bankruptcy, which means, of course, that there will be a mocking announcement made by Gorenjeks before, what it means to help such countries if it is not previously provided with a really sharp mechanism to provide a return within a reasonable period of time for such funds. It's exactly like giving an alcoholic a bottle of schnapps and saying, "Give it back, buddy, when you're not thirsty anymore, you're gonna bring that bottle back." Yeah, sure, let's wait and see. Here is this problem that no one can really understand in Slovenia anymore. When it comes to helping foreign countries, no problem, an agreement was reached overnight in the presence of the Prime Minister of the EU that Slovenia will contribute 380 million for Greece already in the first tranche, overnight, if you remember that event. The next day we were faced with the fact that the agreement had already been reached, without, of course, the constitutionally envisaged preliminary talks in the National Assembly, without the relevant conclusions of the competent working body, the Committee on Foreign Policy, etc. That's how these things go under this government. Or another story that you don't like to talk about so much. If believing in the biggest newspaper is the news published two years ago, it is an additional pension in Serbia every month, we should not have to sign it, it was arranged by dividing the country, almost €6 million; there is no money for the Slovenian treasury, and 6 million down there is no problem. This is at the annual level of a good €60 million, which means that this is three times the amount of money that goes into Serbia just as it should for all the warm meals for Slovenian children and for their further development. It is said that there is no money for the development of Slovenia, but there is no problem for sending it abroad. It's the behavior of the current coalition, but that's how you can do it if you have everything arranged at home. Unfortunately, respected colleagues and colleagues from the ruling coalition, you have nothing arranged at home and this is a Slovenian problem. In Turkey, they have more than 10 % of economic development for a year, more than 10 % of GDP growth at annual level, 10.5%, if I am precise. In Slovenia we stagnate indefinitely. In the most developed European countries – those that are engines – 4% of economic growth has been present for a year. In Slovenia, where we have always argued that there are objective circumstances, we are witnessing the practical stagnation of development. It is now about establishing a framework, a framework for the further development cycle, which is so urgently needed and which such a province as the White Country urgently needs, in order to develop its development potential at all, and then to contribute to the community what it can and can do, and what it is willing to do, but it needs urgent economic infrastructure for its further development. It needs good remotes, this is really absurd that today, in the third millennium, we are talking about that one part of Slovenia is not adequately equipped with a long-distance network, it needs a good road connection, a highway connection that will enable fast, stable and smooth traffic even when it comes to more demanding transports and then it also allows cooperation at a more equitable level with all its neighbours, and gives new development opportunities. And it needs a positive attitude that, unfortunately, has not yet been received from the current authorities. In fact, if I just remember how it was with the broadband networks, which there was some talk about today, the matter is actually already tragic. Previously, some of the invitations failed because they did not cooperate within the White Country. This time, cooperation took place and was again eliminated because of this, because they did not meet in advance some of the banal requirements given by the current structure. No one helped them, on the contrary, they wanted to arrange matters properly, and neither did they get the opportunity. But priors were eliminated in advance, even though it is a fundamental development issue of certain parts of entrepreneurship, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship urgently needs this, you cannot develop properly without broadband. And for the benefit of all others, there is certainly a good and stable broadband link, regardless of what the economy is really about. Today, under the conditions of globalisation, this is a perfectly normal, necessary developmental condition and this applies to any area of Slovenia. In this case, we're back to where the starting point was. This is a border area that is even more exposed, which would need more encouragement. And how is it possible that it was just so eliminated? In doing so, when we discussed this on the committee I am leading, for higher education, science and technological development, we were witnesses to a rather ridiculous but tragic situation. When the people of the municipalities, the representatives of the municipalities – mayors and mayors – announced the charges to Mr Golobic as minister, because they had estimated that they had been unlawfully eliminated, or that everything had already been planned in advance in silence, so that they did not get anything that was aimed at some central spheres, while for the border areas – because it was not only the White Land problem, it was also for the northern Primorsko, Koroška and so on – the regions were predestined to fail, on the other hand, the Minister promised them return lawsuits if they were too harsh with him that he had witnessed some threats. And that's how they threatened each other with lawsuits. Is that a development coalition?Oh, my God! Is this a normal government attitude towards local communities that just want the necessary conditions for their development?Oh, my God! With all my responsibility, I say no, but there is an additional tragic moment that Mr Golobič is himself born from the White Land, by the way. And if that's the way things are going, of course they're not going anywhere. What can be done at this time, what this country likes to do under the present authority when it comes to foreign affairs, when it comes to Greece, when it comes to Portugal, Ireland, I do not know who, first of all, must be done for Slovenia to help the most exposed, the most affected, and most in need of incentives for its development. I don't know what kind of strong committees, ladies and gentlemen, because they probably share their meetings well and all, but they need concrete measures, to ensure with deadlines that these fundamental development frameworks are needed for the development of this province and thus Slovenia as a whole but will be given as soon as possible. And this offers this law, which is before us today, this offers the White Krajina Development Support Act, which also responds to both the fundamental problems that White Krajina faces at this time, this is the problem of the steady supply of electricity and of the highway connection, and at the same time provides incentives from the economy, from the field of employment, in short, a positive measure, a great gesture, which, we must be aware of, will ultimately be paid to all. For such assistance, as we say in Greece, is the question that if we ever see it again, and we will never have anything from it. However, if we establish a development framework in one part of Slovenia in the way proposed, it is said that we will allow the region to take advantage of its development potential, to develop small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, then we will get this money back sooner or later, but. We're going to get it into the budget, we're going to get it as a tax payer, and we're all going to live better in the final stage. And this is what is currently missing in Slovenian politics. Conscious that the only objective that should be central policy leadership is the common well-being of each individual, each region and country as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u15	Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u16	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I especially welcome my colleague Marinič and Bezjak, and I hope that I will be shorter and less boring, so that during my performance they will not take a nap. We can all agree in this Chamber, and we can also agree that the situation of regional development in Slovenia is uneven, thus blocking the pace of development of the whole country and that special attention is given to the most backward areas where migration can occur and because of the open borders and free movement of people and capital, there is gravity to the more developed centres in neighbouring border countries, which in a small country like ours can lead to catastrophic consequences. It is true that people have always migrated from these same areas, which are now considered problematic, to neighbouring areas as well as other continents. The remaining fact is that in the area of regional policy and regional development in Slovenia we are currently not reducing the development differences between the regions and they are still large. In particular, if we look at the functioning of, say, the previous mandate, we could say that this regional policy was more similar to the sum of individual municipal and regional projects, but there was no centralised and necessary coordination and synergies. The economic and financial crisis has also shown that regional policy has not had a systemic response to emergencies and we have witnessed numerous proposals for intervention laws that are intended to solve specific problems in which individual regions have been found. This law, which is before us today, follows similar objectives for the three municipalities located in the White landscape, for Črnomelj, Metlika and Semič, who have long faced economic problems. In the Brussels Group, we are, of course, aware of the problems the Belokrans face, but we believe that the adoption of intervention laws, such as the law for Pomurje, would be a one-off act and that the further adoption of intervention laws cannot be a systemic solution to these problems. And we believe that the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development, which we adopted on 7 March this year, offers the right systemic solutions for these problems. This law brings together a set of regional policy instruments, introduces a territorial partnership dialogue, strengthens and links existing institutions to achieve greater efficiency and wants regional policy in border problem areas and high unemployment areas with specific measures and state aid schemes to strengthen this border belt with new investments and with the possibility of new employment. Where unemployment exceeds the critical threshold, further temporary development support measures are envisaged. These areas will receive a programming approach to prioritising development policies and incentives for employment and additional budgetary resources to implement the area's competitiveness promotion programme in a systematic manner with clearly defined parameters rather than in a partial manner. If we have already spoken and heard about the calls for the co-financing of the broadband network here today, it is worth mentioning that, for example, in the previous term, one such call was made on which — now listen to what coincidence — was chosen by which congregations. Those municipalities whose mayors may have sat here as coalition MPs or, of course, belonged to coalition parties and what is even more coincidental, you cannot believe: under all the alleged fair and proper conditions, the percentage of municipalities where, for example, the mayors of each party were almost exactly caught with the percentage of Members provided by that party in the coalition. Is this a system of justice? How can it happen that on the left side of the road, where one congregation is entitled, on the other side of the road, where the other congregation is not entitled? However, geographical conditions and demographic conditions are the same. What's the difference? The difference is in the mayor's membership card. These are not, ladies and gentlemen, systemic solutions, they won't come that far. This is not a blessing for everyone and for everyone, as mentioned in this discourse. It's me partial clientlist, lobbyist, if you want, corrupt approach to everything. Of course, this is no longer the way to do things. Therefore, it is likely that the conditions set out in the new invitation to tender were too heavy for many, since things could no longer be regulated along the client line. And you'll have to get used to it. Now that the mayors are no longer in Parliament, I hope that this will be easier to understand and that we can all be easier truly Members of all citizens and citizens here, and that not everyone will just partially drag the wagon to their side. Because if we do this, of course, this wagon won't go anywhere, it'll fall apart. Everyone's gonna get one bar from the loan shark, and that's it, and the wagon's not gonna go anywhere, and the wagon's never gonna be here again. In short, because of such coincidences, I think it's good that we solve problems systematically. And this law, which was passed in March, in the view of the Group of Ambassadors, is indeed ensuring this. If we are referring specifically to the area covered by the proposal for a law before us, it would be worth mentioning that, on the basis of the Act on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development on 20 May, an invitation was issued in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia to promote initial investment and job creation in the municipalities of Osilnica, Semič, Metlik, Kočevje, Črnomelj, Loški Potok and Kostel in 2011 and 2012, as you will probably agree that someone will quickly, twice. For this purpose, we would spend some more than €5 million over two years. The role of investors must be at the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy until 30 June until 12 p.m., and there is a short period of time. And I believe that interested congregations will apply. This is the systemic approach that is applicable. Since the Law on Promoting Coherent Regional Development is already being implemented, this proposed law in the Group of Members is indeed not going to be supported by a new policy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u18	Good afternoon, Madam Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! Let me start by saying that in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we support the proposed Law on Development Support to the White Country, as we have supported all the proposals for intervention laws so far, because we believe that its implementation would accelerate the development of this beautiful from the country of the forgotten region, which is currently in an extremely poor economic and social situation. We also regret that, a year ago, he did not receive support for the draft law prepared by former Member Andrej Fabjan and was sent to the State Council, the National Assembly. Members from the sixth constituency also co-ordinated him at meetings in the White Land. Unfortunately, at that time, there was no broader political support in the coalition due to the expectation of a system law on coherent regional development. The white landscape, as we all know, has been heavily exposed to the landscape because of its geographical and traffic position, and has been economically neglected, which has recently been facing 14% of the unemployment rate, as it were, following the current lane and the departure of some companies abroad. In such a situation, the state must not remain indifferent, but should do everything to ensure that such a situation does not continue indefinitely in this area. As we all know and have heard today, there are further threats here at the door, for example. Secop. I am afraid that a number of statistics, which are now incorporated in the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, do not answer the many questions that sometimes lie behind such statistics. On the one hand, they are gradually expected to fail, or to forgive, to which they should be answered. On the other hand, I fear that, unfortunately, even in one part, a false picture, if we speak only through a percentage of unemployment in the White Land, that we do not find that today the vast majority of Belokrainians drive and migrate to Novo Mesto and other economic centres, that the landscape is literally empty and that they are facing a brain drain, is called the escape of young people. And unfortunately, such distance statistics, which are covered in some marriage, do not answer these questions, which are far from hidden, and will leave great consequences in the very province that we are talking about, is said in the White Land. Members of the Slovenian People's Party believe that the proposed law would solve a number of situations that the government has not adequately addressed, as an appropriate programming approach for the development support of the White Country and the specific financial resources of the region would enable the successful recovery of the consequences of this crisis, and would also ensure a development breakthrough. The bill seeks to achieve this through a set of eight measures listed in this support, thus also providing new jobs and promoting a higher added value activity. All of these measures are financially evaluated, which we feel is particularly good from the Slovenian People's Party, as we are aware that without a sufficient amount of money invested we cannot expect positive effects. We agree that the assessment of these costs, when we look at comparisons with other laws, is quite high, and that is why I think it is also right to discuss such a law first in the first reading, to talk about it and to continue to be able to correct such a law in the procedure. We also believe in the Slovenian People's Party that it should be repaired in the part where we define the area and follow as well as the original law that it prepared at that time, former colleague Andrej Fabjan and includes in the area also the administrative unit Kočevje, is the municipality of Loški Potok, Osilnica, Kostel and only Kočevje. The proposed law provides for the largest share of funds, which is €500 million, for a transport infrastructure investment programme linking the area of the White Region to the highway, which is the southern part of the third development axis and the modernisation of the regional road and railway infrastructure. Here we meet again with the direction that we have been supporting and supporting in the Slovenian People's Party, and we opposed when the coalition changed the European funds use plan when, on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, where the members of the Slovenian People's Party pointed out this, it went to a dogma of "from walls to knowledge" how these funds would be transferred from these major infrastructure projects to knowledge. We have already tried to tell those who have advocated this, that we do not know how to go about knowledge in the White Land, to which you cannot even get on a straight road, to a province in which no electricity infrastructure is provided. That is why I think that a decisive step is needed and that, with known rather high resources, primarily in the first phase, adequate transport infrastructure is provided, especially in the first phase probably road and electricity infrastructure, as well as broadband connections, which are the infrastructure of this time and are also the basis for the normal functioning of any serious undertaking. Measures such as the White Country Competitiveness Promotion Programme, additional investment in agricultural activity and forestry and the establishment of an economic centre in the White Region seem particularly important to us in the Slovenian People's Party in order to improve economic activity in this area. This year, as we have heard several times this year, as the main reason for the coalition to reject this law, the Act on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development, adopted by the Members of the Slovenian People's Party, has been adopted because we estimate that it will not be effective and that it is going in the wrong direction and that it primarily increases the degree of centralisation and dependence of regional environments on good will and also on some agreement that the region must conclude with the government, with the country, and most importantly that the law does not provide sufficient resources to deal with regional differences, as was the case in the previous law when this was ensured. Members of the Slovenian People's Party have been Members of the Slovenian People's Party for the entire time of the consideration of the Law on Promoting a coherent regional development of the target of attacks by one of the major advocates of the Act, and at the same time one of the proponents of the Act is also one of the proponents of the law, as we can see in the eyes of voters and voters from the White Country, who are not allowed to develop by opposition to this law. It is clear now that the adoption of the Act promoting coherent regional development is weak and represents only a cosmetic correction, which deepens regional development differences and solves nothing and takes the funds previously provided at 1.5% of the GDP that the previous law contained. As we see the current intention, what is now only available to the opposition around the newspaper's balance sheet, the real rebalancing is collected precisely these funds, which are intended to reduce these differences, are said to be transport links, the development of entrepreneurship and so on. I think it is right to point out once again from this town that in this dilemma, whether such a partial, ad hoc, special laws for the resolution of individual developmental differences are necessary or not, that this issue is once again open, and that it is also right to remind that this issue can certainly be opened because of the fact that in the past no landscapes have been adopted in the Republic of Slovenia and that the care for regional development would be left to those where such regional development is most easily eliminated, that is to the provinces. Unfortunately, this has not happened and we still do not have a second level of local self-government, so there are no established provinces. These would certainly allow for additional financial decentralisation of the country, significantly easier to resolve development problems in the area in their competences and would also accelerate the absorption of European cohesion funds. We are confident that the introduction of landscapes would prevent or respond more quickly and effectively to a number of social catastrophes than is being addressed today. As we can see, this area around the establishment of landscapes is now on some blind track, and that nothing has practically happened in this mandate and that the province's project is a political dead man. As we all see, however, Slovenia is increasingly centralising itself and trying to resolve this matter with some unhappy system laws. The service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional development, which should be the first in the fight for the establishment of the provinces and the final implementation of the second level of local self-government, is clearly only the fifth round of this government, which we see now taking place from year to year and that the retired minister, two retired ministers for it and today also the missing minister, who replaces them, shows the attitude of the government itself to coherent regional development. At the same time, we believe that, in doing and doing this service or the Government's priorities, the loss of pace in drawing on European funds, which could also help to eliminate these regional differences, but today, according to the doctrine of this government, "from walls to knowledge" is successfully concentrated in large centres and works them more, more developed, while looting remains from the country and God is abandoned and we are not aware of what this will mean in these border areas in the coming decades. As we have already heard today, the other countries around us are much more aware of what this means. To conclude, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we estimate that the Belarusians need to be optimistic and help to revitalize their economy or to improve the development of road and other infrastructure. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we support any assistance to the socially and existentially endangered citizens, so we believe that such a law as we have on the table is suitable for further consideration, but we agree that it is in the further consideration of the space to discuss the amount of funds, the measures to be taken, we can improve them ourselves, and once again, I think it would be right to include the Kočevje Administrative Unit with the municipalities of Kočevje, Kostel, Osilnica and also the Municipality of Loški Potok in further consideration of this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orzam. [[He won't.]] Mr. Matjaž Is it procedural? Yeah, I'm sorry. Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u20	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer. I must now respond to or explain some of the irregularities or also misrepresentation of the facts, the views of the groups of Members. Some have cited the dilemma or concerns that this law does not come into force until 2013 or that it is written in this way. Of course, this is how we had to write – 2013 because the procedure does not allow the budget already adopted by financial means and for 2011 and 2012 the budget is already adopted, but the law cannot interfere. That's why we had to fix the yearbook. However, if it were the will and, of course, the interest to be reinstated, as only the Government could do, these amounts would be placed in advance, and amendments could, if they were willing, change the validity of this law. So this information is misleading and is an unconvincing excuse not to solve a situation that is more than critical in the White Land. I agree that today we have a so-called system law on coherent regional development, but a respected coalition: this is more or less just moral support – a patch for the very severe bleeding that the White Country has today, and if anyone thinks that we can solve the situation that is there with such a patch, we will also extend the matter to Kolopia, also to Kočevsko. This law without funding, not the one that we are considering today, but the Law on Promoting a coherent regional development cannot — it cannot — move things in some foreseeable time or never, especially when we look at the amount of money that is crucial to this development, is now even shrinking. I agree that if a billion or two Euros of funding were available in the budget of the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development and that, through the mechanisms envisaged by that law, funds would also be available now for the White Country and for the Colossae, I agree that such effects could also be achieved and that, in such a case, we would not even be able to prepare or submit this law. The reason that we went through this intervention law was only in that it intervenes in this area, which, see, really urgently, needs this help. So to say that there is a system law here to solve this, there is no such need. Look, that's funny, that's a cheap excuse nobody believes in, and neither does they. And I am very interested in what this measure will bring in one or two years from now, this call for proposals by the law on coherent regional development. Nothing. Look, he's not gonna bring anything, I guarantee you that now, maybe someone will make some personal use of it, but something that's not systemic anymore. What's the problem with the White Land? The biggest problem is poor road infrastructure. I know the municipality, I don't want to mention it, which built an industrial zone with all the municipal infrastructure, but there was no interest of one company, one entrepreneur, to build his own plant there to invest. Why not? Because there is no road and broadband infrastructure. Here is the key reason and now let us touch on those misleading or misinterpreted facts of some of the debaters that the disproportionate amount per capita in this law is disproportionately estimated to be just over EUR 5,000. Why, colleagues and colleagues from the coalition and the government?Oh, my God! Because white landscape doesn't have road infrastructure. Compare Prekmurje, which now has, thank God, too late, but has, highway infrastructure and also the condition of roads significantly better than in White Krajina, so the main amount provided for in this law is for the White Krajina, intended for road infrastructure, for the third development axis, for railway modernisation, for local roads that are crucial to the economy. These funds are estimated at EUR 530 million from 619 in this law, and here is the difference. And to say that today we will be able to regulate or balance regional development with a comparable sum, it is funny, the White Land has been forgotten from the world, especially from politics, from the government since World War II ahead and have been lagging behind all the time. All the time, that's why they're in this situation. I know these people, they're simple, they're modest, they're working, they're hospitable. We would like to work, we would like to create, they have natural attributes, but they were not systematically given this option because they were neglected all the time. They have excellent conditions for tourism, wine-growing, wood-processing industries. The Municipality of Semič is one of these municipalities and, as I know, it is now 70 % of its surface area, and it is a large area with forests, and we do not have one large wood-processing plant in this area. I am convinced that by such measures as this law brings, we can motivate, encourage and ensure that these resources are also used. So that I am firmly convinced that this is exactly the kind of law that can accelerate this area as far as its development is concerned, and that is why we will support other areas in the Slovenian Democratic Party if such proposals are made. I agree, in Slovenia we certainly have some such areas that are urgently needed: from Koroška, which has been rejected, there could probably be some such areas in Primorska, but see, this is the only way. Not to hide, not to hide behind the system law on coherent regional development in order to resolve this. He won't. I regret that, after the debates of the members of the groups, there was a lack of support for this law, but see, this is bad, not least for Slovenia, and I am sure that the new jobs in the White landscape, some economic cycle that could live there, would return with multiple funds. However, as regards Mr Rože's finding that the mayoral function in this House has also been conditioned by certain privileges of individual provinces – this is not true. Mr Fabjan is no longer the mayor of the municipality of Črnomelj, but he was also a Member of Parliament, and he failed to obtain funds for road infrastructure and not for the broadband area, and today the White landscape is still exempt from this, not to generalise here, because we know that this is not the case and not here to sell some political flags. So much for now, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u21	Thank you. The flower of Zalokar Orazem will not discuss. Like what, a replica? Here you go, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The Slovenian public knows, and Belokranjici knows even more how many times Mr Fabjan was and how long the Member, how long he received compensation for his mayoral office, how he financed his car purchases and more. I believe it's as you say, but he didn't make it. However, I argue that this is due to the fact that the Slovenian People's Party in the previous coalition did not have enough votes to find money for his congregation as well. So he found money for another municipality, and I'm not going to say it's from the Slovenian People's Party domain. I didn't lie, I didn't fake anything, I didn't change the facts here. This correction you made was unnecessary because the claim was true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem will not discuss it. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar is not either. Mr. Branko Marinic, will you discuss it? Then prepare Franco Yuri and Renata Brunskole. Here you go, Mr. Marinic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u24	Thank you very much for your words, Madam Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! It is true that if we want to make our real contribution to the consideration of such a law, which we are considering today on the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, it is right to create an actual picture of our beautiful Slovenia. As part of its activities, the SDS Group has moved across Slovenia through both the previous and the current mandates. It would be difficult to find an MP of the SDS Group who does not really know every municipality in the Republic of Slovenia, so you can believe that we can safely identify directly in the field when we face people who live there and represent either an economy or a public institution, what they say. Looking for this comparison, as Slovenia has been consistently developed today, of course it would be difficult without taking into account the actual situation in a particular area in the Republic of Slovenia. But allow me: those who speak today by opposers of this bill are far from reality and from what we can detect directly in the field. I have deepened into the content of the Government's response, in which it explains to the proponents or the National Assembly that it opposes such proposed solutions. Of course it does. And the justification presented in this content explains in seven measures what measures the Government of the Republic of Slovenia will take to resolve the White Country, or Pocolpje. To obtain more accurate information, allow me to summarize some of the contents of this explanation sent by the Government to the National Assembly. The Pomur law provides €248 per capita by its actions. The seven-action assistance to Pocolp amounts to a thousand and 31 euros per capita per year. We propose €5 000 749 per year to the White Country Development Assistance Act. That's to be justified. Why? Because we know and we need to know when we are discussing what the White Land is like, how the places are developing, how such and other state budget support has been received in the past period. Respected and respected, those who today say that you are against this proposal of law are in fact opposed to the development of the White Land as they should have in the past. Now it doesn't matter how much the government is responsible for this, it will be our fault today, especially those who oppose these proposed content. We were visiting the White Land, and what did we find? If we compare this with more developed places in central Slovenia, we practically cannot find a comparison. If we were only to go to the robbery, the border area of the White Region with neighbouring Croatia, we would find that Croatia, which is not yet a member of the European Union, is making a substantial contribution to these border areas for basic infrastructure than Slovenia. Of course, with these measures that we are proposing, we just want to avoid politicising, not giving us lessons and insights as to how populist we are when it comes to political marketing. That's not true. And you'll have to understand something. The people are calling out to the opposition: "Wake up, move and yet suggest something, do something." What else are we doing? We're trying to help. We want to be the opposition — the kind that the people want. Take action, suggest something! And when we propose, of course, the content is unacceptable on your part. We really want to understand this actual situation of uneven development in the Republic of Slovenia and to support the proposal we are proposing. This would also be a solution for the White Land. But White country isn't the only one who needs this money. There are other places. Believe that even if the situation does not improve, in the budget rebalancing, if you intend to propose it, if you do not take into account the development backlog of other places in the Republic of Slovenia, especially at the edge, we will be forced to continue with proposals for development assistance to some other municipalities in the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Procedural? Here you go, Mrs. Renata Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! As one of the co-signatures, as co-proposer, I would like to report on the words of my colleague that the people are calling from the White Country, because we are talking about the law on the White Land, that the opposition should respond, here I have to correct, because I am also the Chairman of the Administrative Committee of the Mayors of Pocolpa and myself as a Member of Parliament, here we cannot say that it was only on the opposition's side, but also as a coalition Member and the only one from the area of the White Region, I think that the colleague here was reluctantly mistaken to say so. Because if you ever hear the voice of the White Land, even though you are Members here, who often like to come to the White Land, but let me say that probably not so many times have been talked about the case of the White Land as I am now coming from the White Land and I am talking about this matter. Let me stress here, in the context of the people calling, but I know that my colleague did not think badly, even as co-proposers, the other three colleagues. However, let me say here that, in some words, things are not quite true. And as Chairman of the Colosseum, let me say that there was no mistake about the broadband network. The reason was less money and a large number of deposits. In connection with this matter, I can also say that the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology was also the competent committee that discussed this. Members and mayors were present. There's a lot of interesting debates here. If I were to go to this proposed law and also to the Transport Committee on rail infrastructure and some things are also some interesting facts that will probably be easier said by colleague Weber as Chairman of the Transport Committee. Let me say here, the solution for the White Country would probably be the simplest: the tax haven in the European Union. That would be the solution. And the rest of the stuff is people calling. People call me most of the time. I have to say here that in a way I feel a little insulted by this statement that the opposition is calling because I think that as a coalition Member, I am often reminding myself of the problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Yuri. Mr. Grill as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u28	I will not abuse, but, Madam President, I ask you to conduct the meeting properly and not allow an MP from your Group to abuse the procedural issue of philosophy here on the debate of our predecessor. She's got her own time, she's got an announcement, and she's free to discuss it, and you didn't warn her. In other cases, when we discuss procedural issues in our parliamentary group, you are immediately the one to do so. Please have the same vats, and that's how you run the session. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The warning was given that this was not a procedural debate, but a substantive one and that Mr Grill was right. Mrs Renata Brunskole has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u30	Thank you very much. Nicely hailed mag. Igor Strmšnik, representative of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government and Regional Policy, colleagues and colleagues! Once again, I am indeed right, because I am also a co-signatory of the law and a respected colleague, I will be happy to support this law as the only Member from the area of the White Land. Perhaps, as a representative of the local community, I would like to know that, when Members' groups are walking in the White Krajina, very few other members of the group have turned to me as mayor, but to ask me if they have had any time or had no contact, I must say that. In view of the fact that I am also chairing the Regional Partnership of Pocolpia, I believe that we could also obtain more information from the local community. In short, these are some of the types, as I have said several times before, of the super-partnerial proposal of the law. To actually help the White Country. Historically, the White Country has contributed to the Republic of Slovenia, in the past as well as Yugoslavia, to independence and older generations of people know – even at home in the family we have a 93-year-old grandmother who can say that if there were no such determination of partisanism in the White Landscape and then also on the way to Slovenia's independence, we probably wouldn't speak Slovenian, even in the village under Gorjanci, where I live, "under the hills" as someone said it meant White Landscape. Of course, today it is also right for Slovenia to return this contribution to the White Country. As I have already said, if we really went to a quick solution, then perhaps the tax oasis in the European Union could be a really quick solution. However, with all the laws we have adopted, let us often stop at the question of comparing Pomurje and the White Land. Don't let my colleagues in the Pomurje area who have also debated here, because I understand them, they have talked about whether to help the White Land because there are fewer people. Of course, this demographicly endangered area, which, due to major problems, would potentially, I hope that it will not, we are working to ensure that it will not become more demographically threatened, but today we can find out if we compare both areas, it would probably be right to help the white landscape to the greatest extent possible, in accordance with the help of Pomura. On the one hand, Pomurje has a quality transport connection, a beautiful highway, developed tourism, thermal tourism, neighbouring Austria, which also offers our people jobs, we have great neighbours of Croatians, we very well understand them and also many people in the area near the border live and have families in this area, but unfortunately, as far as employment is concerned, they are in the same trouble as we are. Someone also mentioned the demographically threatened area, but we can certainly say that the White Krajina was on all the signs that are flying to this government, as representatives of the government, including the Prime Minister, came in the previous term to the area of Bela Krajina and Kočevska, but the fact is that there were some really crucial points for the White Country during this government. Surely the completion of the lower leg of the highway is a turning point, surely the Belarusian water supply, which is already being built in White Krajina, I hope that the parliamentary groups of colleagues you have walked around the White Krajina that you have noticed this. So this government, the competent ministry, the SVLR, the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Finance helped here. The third development axis - the southern part: the adoption of the decision in June 2009 was certainly an important step forward, but I agree, and I was therefore pleased to be a co-proposer of the law to "start this part", as I say, or move forward towards building a realisation. This is a fact, but we must not, despite the fact that the Prime Minister is here, we cannot simply say that the government has not listened because the Development Council for the White landscape and Kočevsko has been formed and in this context we have later come to the adoption of the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development, which has also allowed the adoption of the Competitiveness and Development Programme for the Pocolupja region for the period 2011-2016. There is also a very clear definition of such a third development axis, such as the restoration of the partisan highway, such a road across Gorjane, I talked about six points or, say, the Belarusian water pipeline, the third axis, the acceptance of DLN and now there were public treatments. Then it's the Cowlop program. There are several points here that we cannot say that this government has done nothing. Yes, but I agree, and I have therefore supported this law, and I have signed it that there are many other measures that need to be taken here. Above all, I see here beside the road we talked about, quality transport connections, much, much work by the Ministry of Economy. For support for the broadband network, I mentioned this earlier in the replica, because I believe that the voice here is heard and that the people call someone is not. People call me most of the time, I guess. At least I think so. That's how I feel. So if there was so much perception okay, fellas, okay. [[...]] If you think so. However, I expect that, in conjunction with a possible 20% unemployment rate in the case of Secop, it is necessary to take decisive steps here by the Ministry of the Economy, which many colleagues have already mentioned before. Perhaps it is necessary to decide in an area that I would not like to appoint, where the centre will not electrify this year, but only to provide for Semić, i.e. to connect from Kočevsky to Belo Krajina, and that hundreds of people in Semič can be employed. I think that this would be an important step, a big step; but with the broadband network, as I said: there was too much stakes, but too little money – but not the reason it fell out, etc., it is flawed. There's probably a lot of things we can say here, too, Comrade Webber. But let me also say that when there was a debate that there were no mayors in Parliament now, it would be different now. I hope to say that I was against it myself, because I believe and fear that knowing the problem, the real problems on the ground, also those who are representatives, including the mayors, is really more difficult for us. But I'll tell you, colleagues, don't mind me saying, knowledge from practice is a little different. Directly in the field, otherwise. But those who are also saints in the municipal councils, because you know things, just not as much as the mayors. This, colleagues who are mayors or parishioners here, see, because you can argue, but I also hope to say it publicly. In short, the White Land is in urgent need of help, but it is essential that I regret in some way that there are no more people here in the National Assembly who would feel even more deeply about the White Land. At Pomour, we know how many were against them or why they were against them, but they were supported. Here I would like to finally have the White Landscape, the cradle of partisanism and also of independence in some way – yesterday was a film about the independence of Slovenia, we know what it meant – and perhaps it would be right to finally say to me in the roads of Marsikdo, that you have a beautiful vigrad, excellent roast, cake and wine. [[...]] I want someone else to help bring back the White Land. And I think we are really working people, the Kolpa River is a European destination of excellence, which helps us if someone tells me that we would have at least a quality road, an airport. It's been a long time. I remember the former Minister of Finance promising the White Krajina because he came from the White Land. None of that. I'm afraid that's not gonna happen. I have to say, there was a lot of "we will, we will," but then we didn't get what we needed. Therefore, I will support the law, and I wish that all the competent ministries, including the Ministry of Culture, in the Pocolpa programme, when it comes to the question of Gradac Castle, Črnomelj uses the library, Metlik uses the library, we have no place to sign up or sign up and we are literally out of the tender. So, so much for that. In short, support to the White Land. Here, however, those who, by the birth of Belokran, or those who know potential investors, or who may have some relatives who would be willing to invest in the White Landscape or in Kočevska, are welcome to sign up for invitations that are outside, in order to actually employ people who are unemployed today in the White Landscape and in Kočevska. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u31	Thank you. You want to be a proponent? Here you go, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u32	Thank you very much. To this debate, colleague Brunskoletova, who has already signed this law, for which I am grateful, but we now expect you, above all, to provide the necessary number of votes among your colleagues, who have only the majority, and to express your support, because to see what we find is far too small in the role of the coalition MP. It's not enough to say, "The government will have to..." You're part of that team! [[advertising from the hall]] No, then tell me where this is seen, where Secop is now, why Secop has made his choice and so on. Look, here's the role that coalition Members have to play - not to feel compassion for us, to see what's a fact. And let me say something, although I am not Belokranjec myself, but I have close contact with people from the White Country, bordering on them, and I must say that the Belokranjeks often ask me as a Member to help them in this or other area, as well as other colleagues from the opposition parties, because they know that we hope and that we can be louder than you are obviously in the coalition. But look. The aim of such discussions is not that there is now a political Mr. Anderlich here, you are also a very common guest in the White Country, but especially when it comes to some catering services or such. [[...]] Give your support now and your Group of Members, and we will probably do the most for the White Country. Here's what we can do to help and contribute. And just one last sentence. I am sure that the suggestion of our Members that an investor should come to the White Land and build some plant, some production, will not be necessary, no speeches will be necessary if they have a road there or if the White Country has a road, if it has a broadband connection and, finally, a "tax oasis". These are measures that will certainly bring investors. But it is up to us to give such a law to pass and in a year, two or three situations will be different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mrs. Brunskole answered the replica, please. He's quitting. Mr Anderlich also made contact with the replica. Are you going to replicate? No, no, no. Then I give my word to Mr. Friday. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u34	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it was 18 April this year when Minister Duša Trbec Bučan resigned and then the President of the Government promised to appoint a new minister within one month. After two months, Minister Žekš is still in office, in Parliament we do not even know how this service works, whether it is in bankruptcy or looking for a new minister or how this service works. That is why we have also offered this law, which would reduce the developmental backlog of the White Country for other parts of Slovenia, especially for central Slovenia, given that we have known experience with this government. This government sends very unconstitutional laws into Parliamentary procedure. Yesterday we had the Construction Act, which we all overrun, including the coalition MPs, and of course it's not strange. The government in agony simply cannot draw up good legislation. About six months ago, we discussed the Development Support Act of the Koro Region. At that time, this law did not receive sufficient support; Brunskole's colleague did not support it; I will today support the law that she also signed and proposed. At that time, it was said that the roofing law would be better, that it would bring about mechanisms that would regulate this subject and that this roofing law would produce rapid results. When we discussed the Law on Development Support to the Pomur Region in the period 2010-2015, this law was not a system law, nor was today's law systemic, as was not the law on development aid system law, and this law of Pomur was also adopted by our votes. And the government today says that this law gives good results, that it is an excellent marriage. That's why we wrote similar laws, I wrote similar laws for Koroška and my colleague Grill and maybe someone else. For Koroška, EUR 222 million of development aid was foreseen over the next five years. This is for the one-month mandate of the Republic of Slovenia. Unemployment in the Korean region is 15% and in some areas, where Alan Bukovnik comes from, 18%. Look, Pomurje is connected to the highway, Koroška lives alone in traffic. Wherever you spin in Pomour, warm water will flow, tourism has been developed, and it is not easy to do so in Koroška. In Pomurje, the plain of Koroška is hilly. Of course, Koroshka did not deserve this help from the state. It is gloomy, even because of the fact that budget money can flow through strange channels to certain companion networks. Former Minister Duša Trbec Bučan was happy when we discussed the Koroan law, when we presented these arguments and when we represented the image of the Koro region. Even today, I claim that this minister was primarily a great expense and did not benefit this country. Especially because it came to the Slovenian public once with the idea of dividing Slovenia into 6 regions, namely bishops – it is a beautiful paradox. We have a sort of communist or post-communist government drawing regions along church borders. If the Koros knew that this would await us, of course, they would have left the parish of Maribor long ago and tried to establish their own diocese. What, though, has this new Law on the promotion of coherent regional development for the Carinthian region brought? See: already mentioned was the first call for co-financing of initial investments and the creation of new jobs in border areas of concern. The SVRL promised that a specific quota of available funds would be established for Koroška. Of course that didn't happen. It was a delusion. Koroška must, of course, compete for this money with the other eight Slovenian regions eligible for this money from the budget source. We've heard of it here today. The invitation to tender was published in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia on 20 May 2011, ending on 30 June 2011, with a very short deadline. That's not all. For approved projects, investments must be made by the end of this September. Everything is very narrow, and the blind here would have overlooked that this invitation was written on someone’s skin. We know where. This government policy, which leads to Koroška, this policy is in some way violence against Koroška, over its history, identity, this accession to the Celje region, given that Koroška, as far as Koroška remains, is, of course, being gravitated to Celovac rather than Celje. There was mention of independence, it was mentioned several times. See, 20 years of the independent state remember this year and the first battle fought in the war for Slovenia was in Koroška, Holmec. On 27 June, Slovenian police day will be on Holmec and the President of the Republic, Mr Danilo Türk, will arrive Minister Kresal, Mr Goršek and Korosci will bring a nice gift, this is the abolition of the police administration in Slovenj Gradc. It is expected that the Minister will receive a similar reception as he had recently received at the Maribor air rally, this is an orchestrated whistle.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u35	Thank you. Mr Györek has the floor. Get Mrs. Nigga ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u36	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues! I am sorry that my colleague Bogdan Barovic left me only a minute, but it was not possible to stop him during the speech, because he said very comprehensively, he explained the urgent need for such a proposal of the law, but he could say what the intervention law was, and so he would say something for a short time. In the first place, we all support the Belokrans for their efforts to resolve their pressing situation, as well as the applicants with whom I fully agree, but in the end, we all wonder what certain parliamentary groups must always turn to such proposals. Here, let me recriminalise the Law on Promoting coherent regional development, which obviously does not bear fruit and will not bear fruit. Therefore, there is no alternative but to resort to such measures. I'm sorry for the Korosks, even if this law is now passed for the Belokrans because they're out. Everything will be unfair to certain regions. Even Pomurska, Koroška, Belokranska and what else to find are in a similar state, is said to be in a very critical economic and social situation. That is why I feel that we should do something in Koroška to correct the injustice we have committed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u37	Thank you. Mrs. Montenegro has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Rose.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u38	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr. Chairman! Your Honor! Short hommage for the White Landscape, which is already geographically distant, as this distance also determines it and says a little more. The municipalities of Črnomelj, Metlika and Semič, which form a beautiful white landscape, including the famous Vahta, Jugorje, Bushinja vas, Boldraz, Slamna vas, Gabrovec, Radovica, Drašići, Gradac, Podemelj, Adlešiči, Marindol, Preloge, Suhor, Vinica, Božakovo, Lahinja, Kolpa, Dragatush, Kanjiarica, Three Fares – this symbol of co-existence among people: for centuries the inhabitants of this area have lived along the border of the common church. Many generations go to worship, bury their neighbors, and they really do not mind. They're happy and they're living together and they're going to live. Friendly coexistence is in fact their symbol, mark and way of life. Let me stress in particular that White Krajina was named after the white linen nose, which was preserved somehow until World War I, when it was torn out by the fine clothing, including the white beiges and many white flowers. Without that, however, it is not possible to say and emphasize the little things that warm the everyday life of each individual. The fates of young people, the perspective of the development component and much more, employment, in particular employment. Prime vivere, deinde philosopari and what's next? A coherent regional development is a paradigm. What determines us and what we listen to and try to implement for many years, because we have also had a marriage in the past, and this has not led to the desired effects, as there are other differences, some have only deepened, and others have arisen, very large differences between regions. The obvious case is White Krajina and Kočevska. Today, however, we want the new law to bring the desired effects with the magic wand just overnight, but in Slovenia they have remained and even become, let me repeat, areas that are far more underdeveloped than the rest. These areas include, unfortunately, Bela Krajina and Kočevska. My roots are also in the White Land. According to the old mother of Slobodan, Grandpa Črnugl, cousin of Dr. Mavretic and the second world designer of Dr. Montenegro, and that I do not list all the other known and less famous. The law itself is certainly not the solution to all the accumulated problems not only of the three municipalities, but also of the whole region, which is so fatefully linked to each other. The interdependence of all is an imperative of the future and, as such, the region will have its future. The new city will not be able to plan its future without development, joint development with Metlika and White Krajina. Let me mention that Metlika has a general library that is not accessible to disabled persons, paraplegics and others, for mothers with wheelchairs. And where are the integrated solutions here? I'm not talking about the Black and Black library. Kolpa and Lahinja, after which the white landscape is recognizable far around, still do not have an orderly environment, not even access, but only road links to the shores, which so call after the arrangement and invite many tourists, not only those from neighbouring countries, but also those from all tourist destinations that regularly go to the Adriatic. I've talked a lot about regulating and preserving cultural heritage, and let me say it again. Castle Gradac is calling for additional investment – chasing, cracking, vigrading, summer on the broom castle and other events need additional resources and additional jobs. And what about ICT technology, broadband infrastructure and much more, electricity, plumbing, sewerage. And it's just a trifle of what the White Land needs, and you could name it, and it's all too much. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u39	Thank you. Mr. Rozej has the floor. Get Mr. Ziherl ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u40	Thank you so much for saying that. On the part of one of the candidates, we were able to hear that the law was born because the people called on the opposition to do something. Although I see the situation in Slovenia in recent months, it is different that the opposition is calling the people to be right – whenever there is opportunity – at the referendums. But the human race responds halfway to my vision. The elections that we were elected to took some 60% of the people – these referendums, which the opposition is calling for, are about half the people. And that's it. Why do the other half of the people who go about expressing their opinions not want to hear the opposition answer? Maybe he has something to do with what the opposition calls for, that is, content. And if I go back to the content of this law, which assumes that within three years we would spend over half a billion white landscapes and at the same time in the same breath mentions that Koroška is such a region, and I think someone has also mentioned northern Primorsko. Through my thumb, I can see that this is only half a billion a year in these three years 2013-2016 in the budget, which we have 16 billion. Where are we gonna get that half a billion? At the same time, the same proponents propose a law on fiscal sustainability, which is intended to reduce these state expenditure. Then where's that half a billion of them coming from? Say it honestly. A spindle for another child will have to be removed, especially in wealthy congregations. First, we will do this in Ljubljana to make Jankovic happy, and we will get something out of it, and perhaps something could be solved. Because the proposal, such as that of Mr Grims, that we stop paying justly-deserved pensions to Serbian citizens who have earned them in Slovenia is too great and we give a signal to all those who work with us: "You can work here, you can lose your health and youth here, but wipe yourself under your nose for retirement!".. We only give pensions to those who are here at home, to those who can vote for us, preferably as they should, and as it is right, for it is known. That is so with these things and obligations that we can assume. If the solution is tax oasis, then perhaps those people must also say that they must not resent those who are now avoiding taxes. What else do they do, developmental aid to themselves and to their loved ones? That's bad. For clienteleistic circles, this is bad, but for the whole area it is good, as soon as someone first started serving at the expense of this tax haven in the White landscape, they would raise the same voices against the fact that this is unjustifiable wealth and so on. In short, whether we will take care of the benefit of the common currency [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] From which we have the advantage, or will not defend it, is a matter of the same story. [[...]] In short, more pretentious laws should be proposed if these laws, of course, had a genuine desire to be adopted, especially a real desire to help people who should [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Mr. Ziherl has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Weber.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u42	Thank you very much. A nice greeting to all present, including the very rare representatives of the government. This morning, when we started discussing this subject, I was glad that the government had stepped down and that we would go to early elections. Later, I was afraid that the ministry had been abolished, and then we found that I should have been appointed a minister long ago, that Mr Žekš, the Deputy Minister, had already expired on him 30 days ago, and I was a little concerned about where the Prime Minister would find the ministers, because he is about to have one in a series of headlights, which is said to be a rash of the government. We all know the situation in the White landscape, even those rare companies that are there are fleeing in all respects a more favourable and competitive Europe; the most spectacular was the company that went to Slovakia. We are aware of the importance of the White Land, because it is a border region, it is on a large part of the Schengen border and this province needs more water than the Sahara, and it needs infrastructure and a favourable economic climate that will bring entrepreneurs, investors and new jobs there. And that's why electricity, better communication, broadband connections and traffic access are needed. Not so long ago, individual hamsters in the White landscape were accessible across Croatian territory, and only in recent years have we resolved these shortcomings. It is worth noting that Croatia is an intensively communal and in all respects equipped with border areas. We have seen this in Razkrižje, where our people are jealously looking on the other side of the hill, where it is already Croatian territory. And such a picture is repeated in some other areas, and this is particularly dangerous. And then we come to a conflict of interest, or what rules with one hand builds, with another tear. In particular, I have here an article on the envisaged industrial zone of the Gardens near Semič as part of the assistance in Pocolp. Everything is nice and good, but investors are running away because the remote is too weak, too weak electricity, probably not a broadband internet, and there are other problems to update, and it would take 600 000 euros to upgrade the power supply. So you give one hand, but you set such a condition that you can't use it. It reminds me of the late Soviet Union, when 500 combines were sent to colleges in Ukraine and 270 batteries were stolen during the journey, only 230 combines were operational and so on. It's a zone, but there's no electricity. But who's gonna be working on candles? People have stopped working on candles for a long time. Therefore, the government has responded very inefficiently and inconveniently with all the laws that have been passed so far, on a coherent regional development and with everyone else. A day ago, we had a gruesome debate on the course of the third development axis, which was to reach the Croatian border somewhere in the White landscape and connect this part, creating the necessary link. Of course, we would have come this slowly to all the provinces, but the government here also has very different criteria. When the talk was about helping Koroška, there was no listening. And yet the matter is even more sensitive there. So, we've been to the Iron Ravne, and we're horribly hearing that we're planning to shut down the railway connection. Already and so this part is increasingly gravitating against the Industrial and Settlement Zone of Borovlje in Austria. Mar is from the point of view of the Korean Slovenians and the Conscious Slovenians, but life in the so-called enemy country is better than in Slovenia than in the country. Koroška offers, in Borovjaje offer cheap walled plots, municipally equipped, asphalt to the house plus municipality offers 2,000 euros to every family who decides to move there, and there builds houses of six Slovenian families. Iron Ravne is thinking about moving part of production into the Borovlje industrial zone, because all the things they urgently need are more available. The Ravne Ironworks, which has barely survived all these changes in the last 20 years and yet have invested more than 70 million in recent years, have bought a 33 million machine and are now purchased for free because there is no railway there. Then the development of Pomurje, where this aid is the least needed, development assistance. And once it's done, I don't mind that it's being implemented there and that the investment money is going to Pomurje. However, did not the irregularities dealt with by the Anti-Corruption Commission arise from the help of Pomour? Isn't there a highway already? Don't they literally live on hot springs? Haven't we seen weeds of weeds and stuff like that? And such a development aid law, a development breakthrough would be most necessary for the whole of Slovenia. Finally, I think that the biggest development incentive would be for the government to step down and go to early elections under the CAP system as soon as possible, which is not the law on criminal proceedings, but a common agricultural mind. I am also afraid that this will not happen, because today I have already seen in the media the preparation of the terrain, that the government has been elected for four years and that the hockey game or basketball game is also running to the end, but I would have told this journalist that I had already experienced that the hockey game had been interrupted and registered early with the score 5:0, which could also be discontinued within 24 hours if there was a will to do so. Finally, I would suggest to my colleague that he consider and wait and deposit the same material with a new better government, which should appear as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u43	Thank you. Mr. Grill as a motioner, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I would like to respond to Mr Zares's debate because he somehow or incorrectly understood whether he was misleading or not, or he did not want to understand that the solution to the so-called tax oasis is an opportunity or an opportunity for some kind of profit, for some unjustifiable wealth. That's not true. It is true that in the party that their new paradigm is truly rich and that their members are also very fond of it, but in this law matters are very precisely defined, in which case those who decide to have a seat in the White landscape and also employ people who are exempt from taxes, but not for an indefinite period of time, it is only an incentive to attract potential investors in this way. Here is the key reason, and also the way and measures have proved to be effective in other countries as well. And also the statement that, by means of this law, which foresees quite a proportion of the funds, in the rejection of three or four years, we want something that cannot be achieved. How can we save if we make such suggestions? Yes, a well-respected coalition, a respected representative of the government, to save money in a way that prevents investment, to prevent the start of an economic cycle, that is essentially suicide, a real suicide, and then we will be able to get to what Mr Rozje said we would stop kindergarten for another child, because we will no longer need it if we do not have Natalie, and so on. If this economic situation and everything related to it continues, there will certainly be a decline in births, a decline in the economic initiative and so on. If we want to prevent this, we need to support and provide more resources and save money where it makes sense, even through such measures that we will no longer pay the following meals to Greece, because they live comfortably, nothing bad happens to them, they do not have to save when they have to save, they will now strike, and the Slovenes instead of investing, they will help people who breathe on gills, and we will withdraw money to such people. This is not the right way, it is not the right way, and I therefore expect that there will be enough wisdom and support here to support this law, not because of the Slovenian Democratic Party, because of the White Country, but also if there is any law for other areas in the procedure, the SDS will certainly be supported. Thank you very much for now.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u45	Thank you. Mr. Weber has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. I must admit that it is extremely difficult to listen to the debate when the SDS and its representatives talk about how the government does not want to help the White Country, how the government does not want to help the underdeveloped, but at the same time when we look at the vote on the Law on Promoting a coherent regional development: you have all voted against it. The entire opposition voted against the law, which is already offering assistance to White Krajina, Kočevski and all border areas with the greatest development problems. You've all been against it! How can you today say that you are making a marriage to help the White Land? What a paradox. This aid was not to be granted until 2013. The government has proposed a law, and the National Assembly has adopted it, with which aid is granted already this year. The government has adopted a programme from 2011 to 2016 for Poklopje, where Bela krajina and Kočevska belong, and this programme is already being implemented. That's an essential difference. You would have something, only in 2013, but at the same time this year you voted against this particular law, which is helping the White Land this year. What does this help contain? Specific money for new jobs, for new investments. This is the subject of an invitation to tender which is immediately published and which expires 30. 6. 2011. An invitation to tender for rural development was also published. It also helps those villages and programs in the villages to restructure farms, for micro-enterprises, in short, so that someone can develop their own programme if they want to. You objected to that. This Law on the promotion of coherent regional development provides tax incentives for investment and employment. So, if we are talking about, I would say, the tax oasis of Cowlpje is already in that part of tax oasis, which refers to 70% of the investment relief and 70% of the relief for new employment. We already have a part of the tax relief introduced to Poklopje and thus to the White Land. Even if we look at the rest of the areas, the infrastructure we are talking about so much, the government has taken a concrete decision: the Colosseum is a priority area for all the development programmes of all ministries. They must give priority to any programme coming from the White Country from Kočevska. This means that each programme will have additional points, an additional evaluation of this programme will be in order to be selected at the invitation. The problem that has taken place during this broadband period is only because the call for broadband was launched before the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development, which brings White Krajina and Kočevski additional points in the field of broadband. These additional points would provide White Krajina and Kočevski with the possibility of building these broadband links. In fact, what is to be clarified today is that the government is preparing a regulation as soon as possible, which will also allow it to impose tax reliefs on investments and new jobs this year. This document is in preparation. I truly expect this Regulation to be adopted as soon as possible. This is the next measure that we will be helping all those who invest in Pokhlopje or White Krajina and Kočevsko already this year. Some other things that you voted against and specifically help White Krajina, Kočevski, help the border area. Act amending the Law on the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests of the Republic of Slovenia: there we wrote that the concession fee is divided between the municipalities where this duty is created and between the country. The entire opposition voted against it, but it is concrete money that remains in the countryside. I'm sorry, this is real money, but you've all been against it. I need to listen to you here today, how you are for the development of border areas. Excuse me, you voted against the fact that Kočevska now has half a million euros at its disposal, that the White Country has a total of 200 million euros at its disposal and you have voted against such measures. This money can be used by municipalities specifically to develop infrastructure, local infrastructure, but you were against it. These are very specific examples that really make it very difficult for me to listen on your part to how you are for rural development. You voted twice in Parliament in this mandate against this. And if we make a comparison between the visits of the previous government in the field, what is the result of these visits? Velenju was promised already in 2008 to start building a third development axis. None of that. None of that. Mr Janša's concrete promise, none of it. What happened in Kočevska and White Krajina when the government was there? None of that. What happened in Pomure? None of that. In Koroška? Nothing. And what did this government do? It passed a law on Pomure, a specific law that is already being implemented. It has adopted a law on coherent regional development, which is already being implemented and helps all these areas to receive funding as a priority. There is a reallocation of resources from more developed areas to those less developed areas, and this is a concrete measure of this government, the current governments. But in particular, you all objected. By first taking a look at what measures you have proposed and by looking at where the most developed tycoons have developed: sorry, you have been very supportive of tycoonisation during your term of office. That when the money was most available, the money was given to Kočevski, the White Krajina, Koroška, and you didn't even think of it. Or, if it came to you, you didn't realize it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u47	Thank you. Procedural proposal. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u48	I would like to ask you, Mr President, if you can inform the distinguished speaker that in 2008 Mr Borut Pahor and his SD took over, so you are responsible for the unfulfilled promises during this period. That's just the way it is in a democratic state. Apparently, after two and a half years, you haven't been able to get to know that you're in power. Good morning.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u49	Thank you. Mr. Grill as a proponent. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Mr Weber, tell me which one of the tycoons belongs or is favored by the political party SDS, and which one of the Bavčars was LDS. [[...]] But it's all that [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u51	Mr. Anderlich, Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u52	All those tycoons who are, are, or are, supporters of the left-centre political parties, by allowing them, in particular, the laws that you have adopted, and of course, in that mandate, it was not possible to disclose it, nor to determine it because of the failure of the institutions. That's the first one. Secondly, Mr Weber, what a good master can create in ten years is a poor master of costs or corruption in one year, this has happened with the takeover of power at the end of 2008. Slovenia had the highest economic growth in Europe in 2008. Today we are 15% below the level we had in 2008. Germany, which was then beneath us, is now above us. Where these results are from the government of Borut Pahor and the ruling coalition of SD, LDS, Really and DeSUS – they are also part of this. What else is the point of your marriage, Mr. Weber? When your marriage is here, every citizen must hold onto his wallet. For a wallet, because under some great charity you want to offer a cent in one pocket, by taking 500 000 euros from the other. Why in the Slovenian Democratic Party we opposed the Agricultural Lands Act. Why? Not because of these possibilities for local communities to receive part of the concessions. We objected solely because this law introduces a new tax that everyone who wants to build will have to pay a few thousand euros in compensation for a special fund. Here was the reason, and tell it to people in fact in this way, or by this law you take a lot, a lot of money. Why did we oppose the law on harmonious development? Why? Because it's a law that's basically capable of giving people moral support. Mr Weber, where are the effects of this law, how many new jobs will it provide in one year? We'll see. It's a law that gives moral support and nothing else if there's no means. And this law of funds does not guarantee, it will not have the expected effects. Sorry! Look, here's the point. Then you're saying that the law gives priority to the ministries. What ministries? Those, without the station or without the ticket. Without money, no action will be able to take or will have no effect. A severe bleeding wound cannot be healed with a patch and the Law on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development has the greatest disadvantage in that it does not have funding coverage, nor in the budget, but now they say that these calls will bring something. Not paint people, not your own, not your own, not your municipality, where you have been mayor for many years and, finally, an MP. You can see the result of your work that the congregation is one of those at risk. Look, these things are a little contradictory here. Again, you were deceiving that this law, which we are proposing, was in force only in 2013 or that it would then enter into force if it had been adopted. Why did we have to write in 2013? Due to the procedure, because it interferes with the budget and we cannot interfere with the budget already adopted for 2011, 2012. But now give your support for this law, and it can be changed by amendments in a way that will be in force earlier, as early as 1. 1. 2012, at least part of this funding should be provided by the Government for the 2012 budget rebalancing. So, so much for your debate, which was misleading, malicious and not clear. Look, this is where the results of this government really showed up, and we can see that this is more than a matter of concern. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u53	Thank you. I'm afraid you don't have time for a replica anymore. Mr. Anderlich has the floor. Sign up, Mr. Bezjak, or you don't have much time, but still, get ready. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u54	It's very ugly when people are deceived. If he spreads things in a way that goes beyond the lowest form of demagogy, counting on it to convince them, he points out to others how incompetent those who have power, counting on him to do it better. Mr Grill, it is more than obvious that you have not followed the adoption of the Law on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development, that you do not know its effects, and that I will therefore, without the hope of convincing you, give you seven measures for the Cauliflower, implemented through the Development Council for the White Country and various committees for the coordination of support measures in both the Pomuri and the Kalopian region. First, measure number one. A programme to promote the competitiveness of the Colony in 2011-2016 amounting to 20 million, of which 4 million in 2011. Secondly, reimbursement of paid contributions from the employer for social security under Article 27 of the Law on the Promotion of coherent regional development, immediately. Third time. Tax exemptions for employment and investment in the Pocolpium on the basis of Article 29 of this Law, which I am talking about, shall be carried out by the Government Service immediately. Sustainable rural development incentives of EUR 2.2 million are being implemented immediately. Guarantees for interest rate subsidies for investment loans to undertakings in Pocolpí under the Regional Guarantee Scheme for South-Eastern Slovenia, etc. - preparation and execution immediately. Traffic infrastructure, measure six. In Pocolpium, third development axis, R1-216 regional road renewal, railway infrastructure, etc. The seventh measure - power infrastructure in Pocolpium at an indicative rate of EUR 7 million 585 000, immediately. The measures are being implemented. Why do you argue that due to the adopted budget this should be abolished, which is already done, and wait for your actions to enter into force 1. 1. 2013 If these measures, which I am talking about at this time, are not going to "approach", additional measures can be taken within the framework of the adopted law and the Government's decisions in view of the current or future situation. Unresponsibly, unfairly, falsely and misleadingly, if this is the way the policy is done to make promises to people, which cannot be sooner than in a year and a half, instead of acting immediately. He's not here in this hall that would want a bad one, either for Korosks or for Belokrans, or for Prekmurs, or for Styrians, and we could even list him. That's why it's bad to inspire others!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u55	Thank you. Mr. Grill as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u56	Thank you very much. Mr. Anderlich, I can read myself. What they said in the government, I understand very well, but obviously you're not, and you're deceiving people to cite very similar measures here, as they are in that law. The fact that there is no money or is significantly less money. 20 million euros for the whole of Poklopje, it's a drop into the sea. It needs to be started. No one says that these measures should not be implemented. Let's do it. By only speeding up this matter, but above all, it would provide more financial resources. Here's the point of that. And here we now demagogically state that we have a system law that will immediately begin to solve this matter with some kind of bleeding wound patch, that's misleading. And with that, you're not convincing. You will do the most in the opposition: SLS, SNS, SDS will support the law. Let it be supported only by the coalition by all those Members who visit the Vineyard every year, and that will suffice and you will do the most to support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u57	Thank you. Mr Bezjak has the floor to prepare Mr Pukšič or Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u58	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we supported and debated the proposal for a law on development support for the White Landscape because we want to say that Bela Krajina, Slovenian Gorica, Prekmurje, Koroška live and are on the sunny side of the Alps of Slovenia, not somewhere in the third world, as this Government imagines. If we were unable to implement the proposals that we made, this government did not want to put them to reality in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u59	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u60	Have a nice hello again. Indeed, too many times in Parliament, from the problem we face, we move to the field of contention between the former coalition, the government, the current government coalition, the almost future government coalition. And I don't think that's good for the Belokrans. I think it would be much more beneficial for the Belokrans if, last year, they could find consensus and adopt the law drafted by Mr Andrej Fabjan, and unfortunately they did not receive support, so they left themselves to wait for the system law that is now being passed. This system law has some flaws, mistakes, which we were against at the time, and we think time will show that we have been alerting the right things. We have not been against any development, but we have supported all these development laws. However, we were opposed to abolishing by law certain funds for regional development that were previously at 1.5% and are now unspecified. We'll see what's left after this year's rebalancing for the invitations. We have a case with the pomur law. We got him. He's been told many times that he's non-systematic, that I don't know what she's like. Today we are talking about the results of the pomur law, these measures, which have been taken and economic activity begins. In the case of the White Country, we are talking about calls that are and will be prepared. Another problem that we see and why we think such a law should be adopted: the law on promoting coherent regional development has as its basis some statistics that often speak very superficially. Behind those statistics are various details, from the day-to-day migration of Belarusians to another environment where they have their jobs, and slowly [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Playing white landscape on meals. On the other hand, we firmly believe that as long as this doctrine of the government moves from the walls to the knowledge, it will not allow the road, the electricity. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u61	Thank you. Even Mr. Grill as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u62	Look, let me finish. I myself appreciate that today's debate, despite the fact that there was also some political charge to be detected, has revealed the need that the White landscape must receive substantial financial resources and also development incentives, and this law, which we have proposed here, makes this possible. This does not mean that the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development, which, in other words, in particular by substantially less means, does not follow this objective, but it will be far, far too small. Let us therefore give the support of the coalition, the coalition Members, in order to allow this law to be further examined, to be extended by amendments to any other area that is also in need of such assistance, and in particular to include the amendment or implementation of this law in advance, and to ensure that these funds are then provided for in the rebalancies. I am confident that this will also be an important message to investors who would be willing to invest in the White Country if they realized that the country is also offering a deadline, a solution and that this cycle of dealing with a very poor situation would be reduced and, above all, accelerated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u63	Thank you. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Yeah, there's still hands. I'm opening the application. Everyone has two minutes. The first one is Mr. Pojbich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u64	Thank you, Mr Vice President. First of all, I must say that I am happy to support this marriage because I am sure that the White Land needs help. At the same time, I think it is very important that I stress the following. Such foolishness and corruption as I have listened to in the National Assembly today and what I have heard from Mr. Weber have exceeded all the limits that are permitted. Mr Weber allowed himself to claim that during John Janš’s term, the largest tycoons had developed. Mr Weber, I will now say the following: Vegrad, SCT, CPM, Mercury, Brewery Laško, which people are in the first places, not to talk about the Ljubljana Bank, etc. Whose people are in these places? Your people, from your party, from yours, and allow me to speak now. And you said that these problems grew back then. I have to say something else: the fact is that the government of Janez Janša has discovered, because regulators in this country have started to operate, these mafia businesses, which have been built for the last 12 years or more, and this government has discovered them because by that time the regulators in this country have not acted to detect this mess that was done by entire teams from the time the LDS and its team led this government. One more thing, look, in the previous term, laws like this did not have to be adopted because people had jobs. The companies didn't fail. These companies, which were now failing, were then functioning normally, people had salaries, it was full of state budget, it was full of pension bills, it was full of medical bills. And people had work to do. People had a normal life. This government, when it took over the leadership of this country, what did it do? It has caused almost every company in this country to fail and now you will be watering us down [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Weber, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u66	Thank you for your word. Mr Pojbič, who arranged in the office of Janez Janšao for the sale of Del, about how Pivovarna Laško will operate, who has spoken, and what do we have today? Situation [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] And what do we have today? [[...]] Today Mercator is sold, the largest trading house that can be owned by foreigners, and what will be the consequences for the economy and agriculture? Catastrophe. This is the result of an agreement in your president's office, very specific and it doesn't matter which color someone was. But the deal was there. A clean shovel, who was there? Was Mr. Friday there, perhaps? As far as this is concerned: the largest tacunaisation has taken place there since 2007. That's when the biggest happened. And if you look now at what you have written in this law, Mr Grill and Mr Grims and the others who have signed you say: half a million euros should be provided for the White Country for transport infrastructure within the Ministry of Transport. Now I ask you very clearly, Mr Grims: will you give up your investments in Gorenjska to go to the White Land? Mr. Grill, will you give up investments in New Town to go to White Krajina, Lah to Mirna Peca and Vizjak from Brežice, who is also a signatory to this law, will he give up investment in transport to go to the White Land? That's what you're suggesting. But please give clear answers when you are already advocating the development of the White Country, or are you really willing to engage in this in a concrete way that I have just presented to you. If you propose this as a solution, then I believe you are in favour of this law as one that can also help develop infrastructure. However, I fear that Grims, not Pojbich, nor any other will be willing to withdraw the euro from his constituency to go to the White Land. If it's different, say it out loud, but I seriously doubt that any of you will say, "Yes, I suggest." [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u67	Thank you. Mr Weber, I must warn you that you are asking questions free of charge and calling Members to answer, because as an experienced Member you know that they cannot answer at this stage. Mr. Lach has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. As one of the signatories to this law, I would like to speak with you about this law. Indeed, there are also half a billion euros in this law, not half a million for transport infrastructure, but a third development axis. This law defines that the third development axis on this part is to be built by 2016. When Minister of Transport Patrick Vlačič explained to the Dolenjs that the third development axis would be built to the Croatian border by the end of the decade, no one reacted. This is essentially too late for the White Land and for the development of the White Land. In this law it is indicated until 2016 and this is not additional money for the White Krajina, this is money intended for the third development axis. There is also 10 million for the construction of a power grid for quality electricity, which is urgently needed by the Belarusian economy. And then the government calculated it as if this was a contribution to the White Country per capita and received EUR 5749. Then also for Prekmurje all motorways in Prekmurje and through Prekmurje should be charged in the same manner as that of helping Prekmurje. Given that I do not have much time and that this is the first to be considered, I think that if this law were to be followed forward into the procedure, we could add a lot more, not just the entry into force of the law since 2013, but to enter into force immediately so that the SVRL could organise a body in the White Land that would try to determine the situation and opportunities of the White Land, even with regard to the very healing itself, since one of the municipalities was only 35% healed in 1945, it is now 70%, to find some variants of how to survive small farmers with a few hectares of land and I think it would be very good to organise it in the White Country as in Prekmurje.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u70	We will probably remain in our belief that one believes that what is done and done is nothing, that nothing in particular contributes to development, that only what you promise for a year and a half, and that only yours is right. I don't think so. I have said before that I firmly believe that there is no one against development, there may be some egotistic thoughts, where else, where else, if we have a common frog, then it usually goes at the expense of others, but that is why the law on coherent regional development is the instrument that must be fair to all those who are, according to the criteria, handicapped, are in the last places, have poor development opportunities and so on, and this law encourages them in this way. See if it's unfair for you to miss out on this law of yours, which is already covered in marriage. Even the Cauliflowers, who in fact have similar problems and are being solved by laws, have been mentioned earlier. The fact that we are not doing anything, I have accidentally raised a question here in which I encourage the Minister of the Economy, that the devil should already approach those programmes in 2009, when it comes to electricity, or to improve the power of tension and similar things, so that they can be better conditions for economy or investment. Now, at this point, not two years from now. Why is there so much opposition here? I understand that it is necessary to prove that this government is not doing the right thing, is not doing the right thing, is not working effectively and so on. But this is not responsible for citizens and citizens, for citizens and citizens living in areas [[...]] [[a sign for the end of the debate.]] , on which certain activities are implemented and will be implemented in accordance with this legislation, which is adopted, to improve the situation. [[...]] And proving that there's nothing wrong is wrong.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u71	Thank you. Mrs. Brunskole has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Really interesting discussions among all of us, but I am convinced that when problems arose in connection with Secop that it was extremely interesting, my colleague reminded me of when we were representatives of the local communities, as well as the Member and all three of the Belarusian mayors, we were invited to a few round tables and similar matters when government representatives really came to the White Country in connection with how to help. And then someone on one of these tables also said: why didn't you ask your colleagues the opposite, "what about when there was a period of fat cows, that then no more money was devoted to the white landscape, that then the rotational zones would develop and help in this direction, and eventually it could also be in connection with traffic connections". And here I must agree and repeat that in the time of this government a movement has been made. It's not about defending, it's about tangible facts. For those who have not seen the implementation of the Belarusian pipeline, that the public segment of the third development axis was public, and that the process is now going forward, and if fortunately so, this will be in reality in 2013. And I'm sorry we haven't buried this shovel in a long time. I'm sorry, too, because like my colleague Weber mentioned, there were some promises back then. So, the Pokolpja program is to be implemented, electricity is to be put in place, and investors are to come, and that will be the solution for the White Land, and I will support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u73	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide today in the framework of the votes, half an hour after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. At the end of the day, this is firstly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Back, Flag and Hymn Republics of Slovenia and the Slovenian National flag. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the proposal of the Magi Act. Branku Grims. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u74	Dearly beloved, once again a very nice greeting on behalf of the parliamentary group or of the entire SDS! Let me take this opportunity to introduce you to this point and to all of you in my name and on behalf of all those who, with our hearts and with all our strengths, have established the independent state of Slovenia, sincerely congratulate you on the 20th anniversary of the State of Slovenia, for this moment, when we can look back, we can look at and evaluate all the solutions that have been adopted, and we can do much to improve the situation in this country and also to talk about the values, the values that led us then and which are the basis of our independence. Boris Pahor, a reputable academic, Slovenian poet and writer, and a Slovenian rights fighter, surely all follow his life course, as Mr. Boris Pahor unselfishly exposes himself and fights for the rights of Slovenians, Slovenia in Italy and wherever they are threatened, has long been pointing out the shortcomings of the current anthem, as defined in the 1994 law in force. Because the law defines only the seventh kitica of Zdravljevica as an anthem, which is highly internationalistically coloured and therefore writer Boris Pahor warns that it is simply not comparable in this part with other anthems and warns that such an exercise is clearly contrary to the values followed by France Prešeren in the writing of Zdravica. Mr. Boris Pahor points out that France Prešeren, when writing Dražica, also ranked values in some way and that therefore it is certainly necessary to take into account the Health Care as a whole, but when we follow these values, it would be at least – as a minimum – to define the performance of the hymn at the same time as the second and seventh kitile of Zdravica. It is only in Boris Pahor's opinion that he actually represents the values that the great France Prešeren wanted to define in his Health Care. He put our country of Slovenia and the rest of the Slovenian world first in the second kitica. All nations were then identified only in the 7th Kitica, which is said to have put them in a lower place between values in this valuable system of Health Care, as Mr Boris Pahor pointed out, and therefore the current implementation is not appropriate. The value of patriotism is an important value, one is a fundamental one, and there is a broad social consensus, not just between political parties, but all the Slovenian Presidents of the State have also been alerted to this in the past period, but also by governments in various mandates, and last but not least the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has pointed out this. Therefore, I would like to draw attention to another argument that is in favour of the proposed amendment of the law. Not only is it 20th anniversary, when the value of patriotism needs to be put at the forefront, but I say that even urgently because of everything we have witnessed and what we are witnessing today. The law now in force is also clearly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, for the Constitution is unequivocal and in its third paragraph 6 of Article 6 it states: "Animal Slovenia is a Medici", not the seventh kitica of Zdradljica, not the part of Zdradljica, not something that the law could define, but the anthem of Slovenia is Zdradvica, Zdradlica as a whole. In accordance with the Constitution and constitutional order, the law in our legal order can only determine acceptable means of implementation and possible exceptions, but now the Health Care Act does not specify as an anthem at all and is more than manifestly inconsistent with the Constitution and therefore this is also the reason why the law in this part has to be amended. We propose an appropriate solution in the SDS so that the Constitution and constitutional order of the country of Slovenia are respected, and in all other cases it could also be used in short form, i.e. together the second and seventh kitica of Zdravljica, as proposed by author Boris Pahor. Just a few days ago, you all showed him respect, today you can express this respect for his values and his efforts and his knowledge and wisdom with support for the proposed addition of the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u75	Thank you. For an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to Mrs Tina Terzan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u76	Thank you very much. Your Honor! The government emphasises that the issues of the national anthem and its implementation are very important issues. It therefore considers that, in the case of this document, the applicant should take full account of the Resolution on Regulatory Activities with regard to the preparation of regulations and carry out a consultation with the professional and the general public accordingly. The Government considers that the Constitution provides that the hymna of Slovenia is a Medici and that its application is governed by the law, which does not mean that it should be implemented as a rule or at specific events, but is clearly stated that it is in the legislator's domain to regulate the extent of its application. In doing so, it should be taken into account that both the text and the wording of the medicine are made in a constitutional sense, and of course not only the text of the medicine. Last but not least, it is necessary to draw attention to historical facts. In 1989, the doctor was appointed as an anthem of Slovenia by amendment XII to the Constitution of the Socialist Republic of Slovenia. In 1990, the Act on the Anthem of the Republic of Slovenia was adopted, which, as an anthem, defined the text of the seventh kitrice of Zdravlica in a certain tone. In 1991, the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, with the same provision on an anthem as the previous amendment, followed in 1994 by the current law, which, like the previously mentioned law, provided for the use of the Medici in the same tone and to the extent of its seventh kit. In doing so, according to the Government's behaviour, the legal regime, which has in fact remained unchanged for more than 20 years, did not give rise to the legal arguments set out in the proposal to amend the law. The Government points out, however, that it is necessary to take into account that the Medication is made whole, both by the text and by its interpretation and not only by its text, which, in the opinion of the Government, is not insignificant in determining the implementation of the anthem. The Government therefore considers that the different possibilities for implementing the anthem should be taken into account when amending Article 5 of the Act. The current law provides that the anthem shall be performed by means of music, by singing or by means of music and by singing. In view of the fact that the proposal for amendments provides for the full implementation of the anthem, the proposal should regulate how, in the case of an anthem being performed only by means of music. In the opinion of the Government, the anthem would be performed only once and not eight times as many as the hymns have. Therefore, if an exception were to be adopted in this case, the melodies would be performed only in the length of one kitkit, which is not apparent from the proposal for amendments to the law. In addition to this, Dražica as a complete and unique song by Franceta Prešerna, who is the greatest Slovenian poet and who did not write Zdravljevice with the idea that she will become an anthem, we do not diminish its meaning and at any time we can sing it in full. The government further points out that in the annex to the valid Law on the coat of arms, flag and hymn, the current text and notation of the melody of the anthem is only for the seventh kitica of Dr. Francet Prešerna on the tune of Stank Premrl. It should be noted in the specific provision of any amendments to the law that the attached legal text and the notary record of the hymn are replaced by a new one annexed to the law. A new note and the text of all eight kitties are attached. The Government considers that any amendment to Article 5 of the Act should also take account of Articles 21 and 22 of the current law, since the provisions of those Articles do not apply terminology as in the proposed amendment to Article 5. For all the reasons mentioned above, the Government does not support the amendment of the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u77	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u78	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President, distinguished representative of the Government, colleague and colleague! To whom, first of all, do we give a merry toast, brothers? Our God our land, God lives all the Slovenian world, brothers all that is our son's glorious mother! In the enemies of the clouds of the generation shall he shake our thunder: free, when he was a father, let him be the house of the Slovenes; and let him break their hands of the buckles that weigh them still. This was the second and third kitrice of Zdravljica, which we believe in in the Slovenian National Party and we are sure should be the Slovenian anthem. Since this is not the case, we decided in the Slovenian National Party that we would support the proposed law amending and supplementing the law. Especially because, at least so in the law, it is written; because in the law on coat of arms, flag and hymns it says precisely that the hymn of the Republic of Slovenia is Zdravjica. So, as stated in article 1 of the proposal, the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia is to be performed in full at the national festivals by the choir of the same name composition of the composer Stank Premrl. The second part of the third paragraph, so that it can be used in a shorter form, which includes the second and seventh pixie of the song, will probably try to correct the amendment in the Slovenian National Party in the form I read: to make it the second and third pixie of Zdravice. I am done with this and have left more time for my Slovenian National Party colleague, Mr Györek, to be able to say more here than at the previous point. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u80	Your Honor! Many of us, who remember how the hymn — as it were from the people’s sobs of the Zdravic – became a real healer. It is a case where, in my firm conviction at this time, it is not going to change this law in this way, as it should not be a constitution, and there are other acts without a shaking hand. It was said that such a change required a broader and professional political and other public debate. Before his conquest, this respected deceased Jože Smole was placed in the Slovenian public, practically two, three years before he became independent, and so on and so on, at the time of the adoption of the law in itself. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we are not inclined to change the symbols of Slovenia in a quick way for what practical needs, and also part of the argument mentioned in the introduction, actually talked about that because she is a 20-year-old, thanks to the independents and something else could be heard, let us also do something about this law and change the law on coat of arms, flag and anthem. This is not to be done in a way that refers to individuals who have their legitimate right to say what they think about the symbols, including the Health Care. Of course, the question is, what about the other public, those other authorities, if only one was mentioned for this speaker, what others think, and it is therefore right that this discussion continues, it is done, some preliminary inquiries are made. In the meantime, after the adoption of all the symbols, there have been discussions. I think that there was already a competition between how to change the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, but the view prevailed that it would not be changed in this way and that when it matured any different knowledge, any other need, perhaps even an anthem, we could talk about possible changes, and at this point in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we believe that it is necessary to take into account that it can be implemented and the hymn fully sung whenever anyone wants it. There are no such obstacles in this law, however, that we should go in a different direction and impose something that might also present some problems, I don't know, but what I read in the government's opinion and what has been said today and also what appears in the professional public as concerns - that is why we need to think before we go into change. And that's why we won't support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potter will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Madam Secretary of State, honourable Member and Members. The proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party to amend and supplement the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and the Slovenian National flag only refers to the Slovenian national anthem, so in the opinion of the Group of Social Democrats, I will limit myself exclusively to the questions related to the anthem and its implementation. In doing so, the opinion touches on the proposal at three levels, for the first time – hymns at the level of the symbol, for the second time – anthems at legal level and for the third time – the relationship between the hymn and Prešeren’s Health. In the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the anthem is mentioned in the introductory chapter of the general provision and together with the flag and coat of arms represents a symbol of the Slovenian state. The basic characteristic of each symbol is its durability, for just by its immutableness, it can be rooted as a symbol of a community that is generally acceptable and therefore accepted as being self-evident. The hymna creates an individual's identity with the country, strengthens the individual's civic consciousness and promotes the individual's emotional relationship with the community he belongs to. That is why any intervention in changing the hymn as a symbol must be thoughtful and generally acceptable. It must also take into account the specific requirements related to the implementation of the anthem. Although the proposed amendment and amendment of the law is based on the initiative of a respected Slovenian writer, it is not verified in the Slovenian professional and interested public, but in our opinion it should be, in particular because of the fact that the anthem and its implementation have an appropriate legal basis. In fact, the proposed law takes into account only one, which is the text dimension of the anthem, so it does not touch the relationship between instrumental and vocal execution of the anthem, and does not take into account the time needed to perform the whole, this is an 8-kitish anthem. The hymn thus loses its original meaning and weakens its symbolic value. And just to think. Last time I mentioned that Trubar's password "stand and stay" is following us on our daily routes. And then I realized that most people didn't understand that I was thinking of a Euro coin with Trubar's image and password. That's why I'm gonna be more specific now. On the coin for 2 euros is Prešeren's image, his name and the inscription "let all the nations live" in the goddess. Are we going to change the coin? The amendment and amendment of the law states that the law in force is inconsistent with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and its claim is based on Article 6, paragraph 3, of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia [[.... ……]] : "Animna Slovenije is a Zdravica." [[End of story.]] The claim is based solely on this paragraph and does not take into account the fourth paragraph, which leaves the use of the coat of arms, flags and anthems to the law. And the first law, which established the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia, was unanimously adopted on 29 March 1990, and the law took a decision on Health as an anthem, as recorded in the 12th Amendment to the 1974 Constitution, adopted on 27 September 1989. Before the adoption of the law, a discussion was held and opinions were obtained from the professional public on the text and on the melody and a legislative decision was taken on the basis of a majority opinion. The Constitution has therefore merely summarized what has already been enacted, taking into account the law in Article 4 [[.... ……]] : "The text of the hymn of the Republic of Slovenia is the seventh kitula of the song by France Prešerna Zdravljica and the melody from the choir song of the composer Stank Premrl. The text and the melody are the following," and the reference is also: see page 799 of the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, in which the law was published. The selection of the seventh kitules from Prešeren’s Anthem was based on the majority opinion that the anthem should be as short as possible, that the seventh whale thickens all the essential elements and contains, in the presence of its broad population, also an intimate human and community, a national component. In addition, the size of the hymn is not expressed by the length or extent of the song. The Academy of Music wrote in its expert opinion, stating: "The musical text of Premrlove Zdravljevice as an anthem in the instrumental event is performed only once," I interrupt the indications and continue, "because it is the music to the greatest extent and is also the most recognizable through it, and it is the instrument most implemented." End of story. Thus, the law in force merely clarified the provisions of the first law and also received exceptional support at the time of its adoption. And now for the third level, which concerns the relationship between the anthem and Prešeren's cure. At the time of the adoption of the hymn law, it was pointed out that the legislator did not wish to overturn the other edges of the song by choosing the text of the hymn from Prešernová Zdradljica. Therefore, the statement from the explanation: "If both the Slovenian tip and the Slovenian anthem were to start with the first kit, this would cause problems for law enforcement authorities, if in cases of offensive way of singing this song it could not be ascertained for sure whether someone sang the Slovenian anthem or the Slovenian potion. On the other hand, the people at the events would be embarrassed to see the Slovenian choir and concert song with eight guitars begin as well as the Slovenian anthem and not be able to immediately determine the purpose of the game." End of story. Since the proposal extends the hymn to the entire text of Prešerenová Zdravica, it is, of course, necessary to draw attention again to the problems already observed, especially to the extent: do we imagine how we would be able to show the necessary respect for an anthem that would last more than 6 minutes and a half, of course in instrumental vocal performance. Article 4 of the current law should also be opened as the text and the note of the hymnal melody are an integral part of the law and the question arises whether the applicant has been in such a hurry to overlook it or whether the proposal should be considered as another manoeuvre of the largest opposition party. However, since some also have problems with the communication of the Slovenian anthem, from the ninth book of the Encyclopedia of Slovenia in 1995, I should mention some of the thoughts of the author of the slogan France Prešern, Professor Boris Paternuj's academics, these are only passages: "The top of Prešeren's political poetry is Zdravljica. Its leading thought: the radical demand for the freedom of the Slovenian people stems from the humanistic vision of equality and the friendly coexistence of all nations and the right of each to independence. In the background, the ideas of the French Revolution on equality, freedom and brotherhood are adapted to the fundamental political needs of Slovenians in the spring of the nations and in relation to their independence." If I withdraw all three levels and draw the opinion of the Social Democrats' Group: the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which interferes with the scope and manner of the implementation of the Republic of Slovenia's national anthem, the Group of Social Democrats will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u83	Thank you. Mag. Branko Grims will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u84	Your Honor! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposed amendments, as they are based on the proposals made by the writer and the great Slovenian rights fighter, Mr Boris Pahor. There are many of you, and I have concluded with this earlier presentation, which you have expressed in the past days in support of him, his actions, his ideas, his unselfish commitment to the Slovenes and the Slovenians and, as we say, you have the opportunity today to confirm this in practice. It is interesting to hear the comments made by both the government and now some of the ruling coalition on the proposed changes. And I have to say that I find them hard to understand, and some of them I find it hard to take seriously, but a little bit later. First of all, as far as the length is concerned. The current length of the anthem is extremely short, we must all be aware of this, if you look at how they use anthems in neighbouring countries, you will see that the anthem in all these cases is significantly longer in short form than ours. But if you want examples, because some of you have already stumbled, if you want to be a huge problem fifth Health as a whole, I would remind you that right in the days of independence 20 years ago, during the times of independence, ladies and gentlemen, we sang the Health Agency as a whole at many events and recently also at the establishment of one of the new veteran organizations of those who together built a single Slovenia, and there was no problem, no problem. Moreover, if you look at our first neighbor Italy, you will notice that on special occasions they sing the whole Italian hymn, which is, you will not believe, much longer in such a form than the Health Agency, because it has several kitties and then each of the refrens is repeated several times. On the other hand, it is now suggested that our length would double because we would sing two whales, and you are also disturbed by this length, see how they can treat their anthem and how they sing it in the United States, how the shorter forms of anthem are practically unknown there, but always and every time before sports events they sing it in full and it is significantly longer than the current reduced form of the state of Slovenia, that is to say, if we compare just this property, we will see that the current form of an anthem is not really consistent with what is common in the international community. But more importantly, what Mr Boris Pahor particularly points out is the issue of values, the fact that the present seventh whale, which is a very positive attitude, is very internationalistic. "Let all the nations live," where is Slovenia, where is the Slovenia here, where is our country, our country? It's just not in this kit. This is the fundamental flaw that has led him to point out that the current reduced form of Zdravica is simply not comparable to the other anthems of all other countries and that he proposes to use at least two kitties as a minimum and in a sequence that would actually reflect the value system of Francet Prešern, which is the second and seventh kit. And so we would put our country first, i.e. Slovenia and then the rest of the Slovenian world, and thus capture all our relatives in neighbouring countries, who live outside the borders of Slovenia. And, then, only in the next place, this is said to be worth less than France Prešeren, as recommended by Mr Boris Pahor, and we would follow all nations and the peace message contained in the seventh kitica of the present Health Care. In doing so, I draw attention to another problem that I have already seen from the discussions that have now been presented as the views of the groups of Members. It is a fundamental misunderstanding of what the hymn is after the currently in force law, and that is precisely the reason why we note the apparent unconstitutionality of the current law. As a whole, the current Health Care Act does not define it as an anthem, on the contrary. The present law defines as an anthem only the seventh kitrice of Zdravjica, and the healer as a whole does not. This is a weakness if you want subordination or the obvious unconstitutionality of this law, depending on how you define the same thing and from what point of view. For, to quote, Article 5 of the current law says: "The hymna is the seventh feat of the song of Franceta Prešerna Zdravica, to the tune of the choir's same-name composition by the composer Stank Premrl." There's no Medication as a whole anywhere in this marriage. For this reason, this law is clearly contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which defines as an hymn of the entire Medici. The hymna of the Republic of Slovenia is Health and pika. The Constitution is above the law. The point is, we are obliged to comply with the Constitution. Because some of you referred to the fourth paragraph of Article 6 in the constitution, which states that application then defines the law. Of course, not that the healer can be divided into one part and then this part is an anthem and so on. The anthem is defined in the constitution. Its application, when it is sung, how, in what cases, it defines the law, which is also logical, and this is a matter of law and of course also protection of proper implementation, but this is a matter of law, not of definition of what anthem is. This is precisely and unequivocally defined in the Constitution. The hymna of the Republic of Slovenia is a Medici and unfortunately the law is not in accordance with the Constitution. Why this happened, some of you actually said very well yourself when you said, "Yes, because the law was before the constitution." And it was overlooked that the law should then be adapted to the constitutional provision, for the Constitution is a higher law than the law and we are all bound to respect it. That's exactly what we're proposing. It is therefore a matter of giving the value of patriotism on this 20th anniversary, this special ceremony that is ahead of us, the city that goes to it, because of the story of Slovenia, because of the twenty years that are behind us and because of the present moment. Time is right, it is only a matter of good will, whether we will be a healer – which you have in the entire text at the end of our proposal, so that the comments that have been made in this direction, that this is lacking, I find it difficult to understand – whether we will sing it in the part that says 'unity, happiness, reconciliation to us should come back'. Or we will continue to cut it into pieces, as it was unfortunately, because, in my opinion, a misunderstanding has been made in the past. However, for the end, I usually start with a little humor, although this is a very serious matter, with a little humor I end up with: I really and truly cannot understand Minister Shirce and Vice-President SD Mrs. Potrate, who opposes the use of the whole of Health, because I really don't know whether the work is: "God lives you Slovenes, beautiful yellow flowers, there is no bride like our blood girl," do not allow yourself or everyone else. Let him know who can.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Franci Kek will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. We will not really support the proposal in the Group of Members. Thank you. Only so much more: with all due respect for the entire Health Care Unit, but to avoid the obvious, the SDS Group, which is also the proponent of this law, that we devote too much time to topics that are not of crucial importance to citizens and citizens at this time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A distinguished representative of the government, respected colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we feel it is right to take sufficient time to deal with this domestic topic if the opportunity has proved to be. We also understand this initiative of the bill-maker as a warning given by the current state and as an attempt to promote the growth of the nation's national consciousness. At the time of independence, Slovenians, or those who made decisions at the time, apparently surprised the whole situation. There was no time for thorough reflection on state symbols, and even later we did not want to go too far into it. Perhaps at that time we had little focus on the whole dimension of Slovenia throughout history and all too much on the half-time history of the past decades. However, the novels of the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag simply follow the proposal of recognised Slovenian writer and great patriot Boris Pahor, which is also greatly appreciated in the Slovenian People's Party. These last years in particular point to the marked collapse of the nation’s consciousness observed by the Slovenians and Slovenians. It adds that his initiatives in this regard are not about nationalism, but about the desire for a nation’s natural and positive sense of belonging, i.e. to be Slovenian. Unfortunately, in the Slovenian People's Party, we have to agree with his opinion that we are particularly limping in this respect in comparison with other peoples in Europe. Whether this is due to a long-standing stay in a common Yugoslav country or it comes from a time before that, it is a matter of debate and controversy. But the fact is, if I generalize a little, our apathy for the country and even for the native education already has consequences. Even with the questionable success of our foreign policy, because we have a strong tendency to accept compromises, mostly unpleasant, and after softening our state stances and positions just for the sake of human, "love of peace". But this is nothing more than a delay in solving problems. Are we aware of how Europe sees us? Unfortunately, Europe has often seen us as indecisive, of course, as cognizant, not to say non-problemistic, but in a slightly negative context of a lack of spine. All of this is because we do not know how to repeat the lands from 1989 - 1991 and because we do not know how to get back together in key moments as a nation. We don't know how to perform together. A rare exception is the celebration of some of the sports successes of our boys and girls, but we know how it is with us: when there is no more success, we also have a bunch of inappropriate adjectives. Look, we are currently ahead of closing the chapters with the Republic of Croatia. We give in at all levels. Sometimes I'm ashamed of how we behave at these moments. But I must say that the Croats know this, the Croats do this not in the right way, the European way, they have "negotiation" in "negotiation" is also "overthinking" and they are "overthinking" us on all fronts, not just us, the whole world, Europe, America, because they know that. I am not saying that in Slovenia we should work in this way in a nice, smart way, but to give up too much of the way we've been letting up lately, and we're not doing it. So in the Slovenian People's Party, we stress that for the long-term existence of the Slovenian nation something will have to change mainly in our heads. The proposed amendment of the law proposes that as an anthem of the Republic of Slovenia, the entire song Zdravljačica our greatest poet, Dr. Francet Prešern, be defined as an anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and is also fully implemented at the most important events. In addition, in the Slovenian People's Party we agree that the most important national celebrations of Zdravljica as an anthem would be fully carried out, but it is true that the current legislation does not prevent and limit this. The proposal also foresees allowing for a shorter version of the implementation of the anthem, in the form of a second and a seventh kit. In this, we see no problem in the Slovenian People's Party, because there is only one true implementation, and many of the world's nations are fully implementing a significantly longer version of their national anthems, as this proposal is also about balancing content when we put our homeland and our Slovenia first with this bouquet, and then we call for peace and understanding among the nations. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we will support this proposal in the first reading, although we believe that a few "ad hoc" are ready and such changes usually require a little more technical coordination, but this is an excellent opportunity to hold a debate and that the government side also comes on a day with proposals, ideas and possible alternative solutions, not only about the national anthem, but also about other national symbols. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, this is how we propose, if we are already on this path and if the law goes into further consideration, that there will also be a public presentation of opinions in the future, and thus also gain views of the professional and the general public. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u90	Thank you for the floor, Madam Vice-President, distinguished representative of the Government, colleague and colleague. The motions for the amendment follow the call or proposal of the respected writer, Mr Boris Pahor, who has committed himself to complement the hymn by including the second kit. The proposals go even further than this proposal, as they propose that the law be laid down for the entire Health Care House and only as an anthem in short form would the second and seventh kitties be implemented. In doing so, they point out the reason for respect for the values of patriotism and national consciousness, which they believe would be expressed only by the text of the second kit, which refers to the Slovenian nation. However, it should be added that in fact, as the preshernosts explain, in the last line it turns to all the Slavic peoples. In general, in the DeSUS Group, we do not reject the idea that if Prešeren wrote the original title of this song correctly, the hymn of our country would be defined and implemented in its full text, that is, in all eight or maybe even nine kitties. As acceptable we could also sum up the idea that the hymn would be complemented with another kitica, since the second and seventh kiticas in their content are very well complemented and upgraded in the sense of what is the entire message of Health, which needs to be understood as the beginning of the development of Slovenian national consciousness and modern internationalism and the style of all nations. However, we ask ourselves about the purpose of changing the twenty- and multi-year practice of performing an anthem with the seventh set of songs, which has become an official national anthem with two laws. First with the 1990 law, after it was XII. The constitutional amendment to the 1974 Slovenian Constitution laid down the Health Agency for the Anthem, and then the adoption of the applicable law in 1994. Implementation of the entire Presbytery would not be the best in terms of its duration, according to our assessment. From now on, a good minute, all eight kitties would be quite an extension. The dilemma also arises how, in the case of only its instrumental implementation. However, as provided for in this proposal, it should be decided whether to implement it in full or in short form for individual opportunities, as set out in Articles 21 and 22 of the Act. Whether to change the hymn, whether the existing ones would only add a bouquet or take the whole song - a broader social consensus should also be found. The current "Living All Nations" is part of our independent period, part of more than 20 years of history, is a well-established and very popular Slovenian symbol. We must also remember that this kitrice of Zdravice was accepted as an anthem very spontaneously and in a very sensitive historical period, when sooner than today we could claim that Slovenia should be particularly stressed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u91	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. First of all, Mr Vito Rožej has the floor to prepare Mr Zanoškar, Barovic, Franco Juri or Mr Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u92	Thank you for your word. I think it's always better if every individual, as well as society as such, builds his identity on what he is, not on what he isn't. So, not on some negative identification that we are not Italians, not Austrians, not Hungarians, not Croats, but on what we are and what we represent. These dilemmas about internationalism and nationalism are old in the Slovenian space, even in the Kranj National Assembly, they had similar debates hundreds of years ago. When the liberal government was in Vienna, the liberals were internationalist. When the conservative government was there, the conservatives were internationalist and vice versa. We have good and bad experience with this and that internationalism. I am convinced that Catholic internationalism is at fault for the fact that people in the plebiscite in Koroška in 1920 decided for Austria, for the Catholic State, not for Yugoslavia or for the Kingdom of SHS with the Orthodox King at the head. This also helped to make the decision she was making. I am also convinced that, on the other hand, communist internationalism is deserved or co-deserves that Primorska is Slovenian and will probably be shared, whether he is guilty that Trieste and Gorica are not. We have good and bad experience, but I am sure that communist internationalism is responsible for the fact that the whole Cadastral municipality of Piran is not in Slovenia, because in the 1950s the Piranians came to Kardelje to ask if it can mediate for a change of border, but of course he exclaimed: "We are all happy in communism and what you are now worried about." So we have such and different experiences. But our identity is, if it hasn't been before, and at least in the last 20 years, I've been observing and feeling that way, of course, internationalist. I am proud to have the hymn as we have it, that our hymn is different from the hymns of other nations, that we do not sing this to whom we will plant our intestines on a bayonet and so on, but talk about coexistence among nations. And the fact that it's also on the euro coin, I think it's very nice. What is this Medication that our constitution prescribes with an anthem? The first and the last are the ones that characterize it as a tip. In fact, they contain too many claims that do not give the Slovenians in practice anything good. We know what the problem is with alcoholism in our country and what causes it on the roads. I couldn't take the first and last kitten so easily to sing it at every event as an anthem of my country. The second one is the one about which today, let's say, is more of a speech. And he's talking about our country and the Slovenian world. And he's talking about us, the brothers of the Slavic mother. She doesn't say anything about our daughters, she doesn't say anything about our sisters. Perhaps at the time of its creation, it was irrelevant, but today in the 21st century it is clear that we will not be able to distinguish by sex that we are all equal. So I could take it with my reserve that it's what I'm going to sing in the anthem of my country. The next one talks about how "the enemies will be struck by lightning and freed by the Slovenians' home". The Slovenians' home is free, we have our country when Prešeren wrote the Medici, of course we didn't have it, and it was such a feat important, but today I claim that as much as it was then, it certainly isn't anymore. Then what's the sequel? "The unity, the happiness, the reconciliation to come back to us." At this point, I don't think anyone would want it any more, but if you also read the sentence from the 7th Kitt "that where the sun goes, the argument from the world will be banished," it seems to me that this is the thing we agree on - about unity, happiness and reconciliation. But the fourth woman below speaks of certain uniqueness, happiness and makes "the child who has the glory, let them all reach into their hands, that power and honor with it as before, shall be our property again." We are children of Slava, and Slovenians have poor experience in state regulation, in which we shared the country with other Yugoslav nations, about brotherhood and unity we have here one such opinion, and the other is different, and certainly the end of this brotherhood was not the best, even more: it was very bad. Nor can this quarter be unconditional, at least for me, accepted as an anthem of my country and country, which I will gladly sing. Next, fifth, he talks about the petals of Slovenia and that there are no young women like our blood girl. Nice, but what about the continuation of "the sons, the offspring new, you'll be the fear of the enemies"? Are women born machines?Oh, my God! They're not anymore! Although perhaps those who protested before parliament yesterday would have wanted to, even though perhaps Mr Grimes, who is now turning his eyes, thinks so. I just don't think so, and I think that most women in this country don't think so, so this chick doesn't judge, she can't be one of the values that all citizens and citizens of this country would accept. "Youngsters, now drink Your Ladyship, you our Up; the love of the household let no man smell your poison," of course, why "because now you're in like n's, you're defending it with a 'time' call!" [[...]] What is the threat to this country, or do we have a general military obligation? We haven't had one in over five years. I don't know if this is the most appropriate one and what it would look like to sing "young man" and not the bride. But we have no choice but to sing "young people" as warriors and young women as birth machines. And then comes this seventh, which is today our anthem, which speaks of all nations, is also of ours, because I believe we are a nation, because we have so much confidence in it, because we have proved it through our history, because we do not need to sing and describe it again, because we are among the nations. There are more than 8,000 nations in the world and 200 countries. We're one of those few people who created a country. So here we are, among all these nations. About the fact that we want the argument from the world to be banished, in short, unity, happiness, reconciliation, if you want to with one of the previous kitties, which contains this seventh whale, that the swarm will be free every one of us, it's true that we are cousins, Slovenians and "not the devil, only the neighbour will be strong," about the fact that we are inclined to agree, to compromise – it was said earlier – so I think that the seventh whale best embodies what the Slovenians are, what the Slovenians feel and think. Whether we are now like this because this seventh whale was our hymn, or this seventh whale is our hymn because we are such, I don't know, but if anyone imagines that by changing the hymn, that we will also change the character of the nation - perhaps in a very long time, even though I wouldn't put my hand in the fire, it's really that simple. It has been said that this law should be amended because it is inconsistent with the Constitution, then another institution is here to determine unconstitutionality. Mr Grims certainly isn't the one who could have figured that out, even though he's doing it with his left hand for a lot of marriage. Are we obliged to bring this law into line with the Constitution? Maybe when the Constitutional Court finds this unconstitutionality. However, we have had a case of law that the Constitutional Court has made clear that it is unconstitutional. I now ask Mr Grims, where have you been, Mr Grims, when it was necessary to vote on the veto of the Council of State for the law establishing the congregation of Ankaran? You were gone and there were not even a bunch of your party colleagues, but you voted to call a referendum when it was necessary to take into account the will of the electorate and you were not here. For what? Because of some other political arrangements. You're right to look away, because if I were you, I wouldn't be able to look someone else in the eye. In short, I think this proposal is full of one hypocrisy, in addition to being professionally poorly justified, and I will not be allowed to preach here about patriotism, from someone who does not favor or raise his last salary when the President of the State enters this Chamber. Put these marks back there and such a proposal until it is more broadly coordinated, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u94	Thank you. First of all, I must say that I expect the electoral success of your esteemed party, Mr Kek, to be probably about the level of your speech just now, that is to say, somewhere on the dog. What I would like to point out in this is the fact that if someone is disturbed by the content of Dravezka in individual kits, I must say that I deeply regret your vocabulary and your references to the song of Franceta Prešerna, which is written in the Slovenian Constitution and would invite you to go down to the library, take some books about the Doctor that I read before I prepared it, one of them was written by Mr. Kmecl during the previous regime, and you will see that even during the previous regime, and in the 1970s, he did not use such a dictionary about "brearing machines" and, like, ideologically, discarded vocabulary as you used here today. And I must say I regret that. My colleagues warn me that I said the wrong name, so to speak, I meant a respected forerunner. In this matter, the saddest thing is that you obviously don't understand one basic matter. The Constitution defines the whole of Health as an anthem. And if anyone is disturbed by the contents of the Medici, then he should propose a change to the Constitution. What is our responsibility, however, is that if someone warns and notices, even if it is too late, I must admit that I did not notice the matter in time years ago, but I was not also a Member when it was adopted in 1994 to be able to talk about it properly at that time. But the fact is that there is an obvious, and there is no need for any Constitutional Court, obviously a conflict between the law and the constitution, the Constitution defines as an hymn Health, that is, the whole Health without Parts, without Limitation, without anything - the law does not define it. And some of you said, "yes, because there is no ban on the whole of the healer," that is true, but then you should know that in such an execution this is not an anthem of the state of Slovenia in accordance with the applicable law. Here is the problem that we point out that the law is not consistent with the constitutional provision, obviously not consistent. Because if it were, then it would have a defined rule that would be in accordance with the Constitution, so that the Presbyterian is an anthem and that in some cases, because the law can determine the use of an anthem, it is carried out as a whole and it would also define, when exceptions are permissible, for example, a reduced form and what form it is, and this would be constitutionally permissible. But what is now is obvious, if nothing else, at least the subjugation of this law and here is the problem. You can even sing Zdravljavica, but this is not then an anthem of the country of Slovenia according to the law that defines the coat of arms, an anthem and the flag, and therefore this amendment of the law is necessary. Once again, it is not true that the current implementation would be consistent or comparable with the reduced forms of hymens in neighbouring countries. A lot of these cases are in the works. If you look closely at them, you will see that virtually all the reduced performances of their anthems are significantly longer than in Slovenia. Above all, in all comparable countries: Russia, the United States, Italy, Germany, Austria are always at the forefront of those national values, patriotic values and, above all, the values of patriotism, which are the foundation of statehood and which are also put by poet France Prešeren at the forefront. It's not about what we imagine or what we think. Someone said before, the proponents went a step further and suggest that the hymn be the whole of the Medici. It's in the constitution, for God's sake, that's not what we're proposing. We propose that the law be in line with the Constitution, because obviously it is not at this point and you have all confirmed it in your debates because you obviously missed it. If anyone thinks that the current Presidium is comparable in its current form to the international community, let me put it, say, a German case where the hymn begins with - "The unity, justice and freedom for the German homeland". Or the Russian Federation, where, under Putin's leadership, it was actually taken back, is not quite known, an anthem from the former Soviet Union with a slightly changed text and begins with the text: "Russia, the world of our country" and ends with "You are one of God-preserved, native land". This is a modern Russian anthem, adopted under the leadership of Vladimir Putin, but it is basically an anthem of the former Soviet Union. These are examples that you can look at, or, if you like, neighbouring Austria, where they sing: "Beloved us Austria." Normally, every country, because it's a country to put the value of patriotism at the forefront, first. France Prešeren did the same. We are not defending anything else, and Boris Pahor, a fighter for Slovenia and Slovenian rights, is defending nothing but following a valuable system, just as the great poet France Prešeren put it. For it was not made up, he was profoundly thoughtful and in harmony with the common human values. There are many positive points to this song that we deserve to come to the fore. No, please, go with the demagogia so we don't have time for this. On the 20th anniversary of the independent country of Slovenia, you are also on the issue of values that must be the basis of any policy, and how is it still valid to take your time. First of all, we don't accept such perceptions from that government, who after two and a half years of his government is calling a meeting and then the leader of the biggest government party comes in and says, "But tomorrow we start working." Yes, good morning!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u95	Thank you very much. Replica, Mr. Rose, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u96	Thank you very much. I have already told and explained in my previous report about internationalism, about nationalism, about the fact that, of course, I think the vocabulary is as valuable to me as it seems to be this internationalism of value. And that how we will balance the exchange and emergence of these two values in our anthem, of course, requires a broader debate. It mentioned here a public presentation of opinions, if nothing else, any consultation with experts, etc. No offense, Mr Grims, but only to your word, you must not expect the National Assembly to believe either in this or in any other composition, if I have correctly understood the presentation of opinions. As far as France Prešern's value system is concerned, we all know whether or not we should know that in his case it was a matter of, then they said, "frygeist", freethinker, windmill, if you will, or liberal. And I myself, as the president of the cultural society, who bears his name, from Ljubljana's Trnov, feel I am preserving this spirit - the spirit of openness, the spirit of acceptance, understanding and so on. As has already been said, the values of patriotism I am from someone who does not stand up when the President of the State enters the Chamber, and I will not let them talk, because respect for state institutions is just as important as anything else. The hymn is an institution and the President of the country is also an institution. And by not doing so, Mr Grims, you do not have credibility at all, for my understanding, to propose such changes to the anthem, especially if they are not previously harmonised in the wider circle.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u97	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes, as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u98	See, if there is really any doubt about the public presentation of opinions, you have all the possibility because you represent the majority of the National Assembly, regardless of the fact that now you no longer know exactly who is formally in the coalition and who is not, but in fact you were there and as such you can still be understood and treated. So you have every opportunity to vote today to confirm the law in the first reading, and then, in the second reading, we can also quietly make a public presentation of the opinions. I will be happy to vote for this, too, if this is really the purpose and thought of this story. But I would ask nicely when we talk about values that we respect and talk today about those values that are covered in Health, Health as a whole, such as France Prešeren wrote. For, for instance, in the case of which you spoke so inappropriately, he sang a positive song, a greeting of beauty, namely the nature of Slovenk, and defined this nature as a value, being positively defined to women and to children, for the child is also a value. After all, children are based on the existence of the human race. And you are also a father, and you could probably accept this value from this point of view as a positive one.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u99	Thank you very much. The word has Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Let me begin by thanking my colleague Bogdan Barovic for his generosity and kindness that he has given me some time at this point so that I can present my position. In fact, I will also support his position in presenting the position of the Slovenian National Party. In this proposal, which I personally accept, I am also in line with our position of the Slovenian National Party's Group that, as a short version, the second and third quotes, which would also be appropriate in a substantive sense, are the most appropriate, if the proposal goes into further consideration, we will also propose an appropriate amendment. I don't want to say that the rest of the kitties are not acceptable either, and all the kitties are acceptable to me, both in content and in whole. I do not understand, however, such interpretations of the contents of Dražica as expressed by colleague Vito Rožej. It is indeed an extremely perverse interpretation of the Medici or part of the Medici, which I cannot understand in the most radical approach. I can understand the examples and metaphors, including the artistic, personal choice of such metaphors, but in a matter like Draves, I think the colleague went a little over the border. But let's leave it now, it doesn't matter that much. For me, it is also acceptable for the entire implementation of the Health Agency on certain occasions, which could, understandably, sometimes also cause any problems at certain events. Therefore, these two choices or these two options for use are appropriate and it would be wise and reasonable to make them legal. Although we agree with the proposaler on the second kit, we do not agree on the third or seventh version of the short version. However, I do not think that this is that important, we will respect every decision of the majority in the National Assembly and personally support the amendment of this Article 1 of the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia. Finally, there is also some way to comply with the provisions of the Slovenian Constitution. When we talk about the Slovenian anthem, we are talking about the unequivocal value of patriotism and I am surprised by the lack of political consensus in the National Assembly in this area as well. Do we really have to oppose each other in all areas of decision-making? Is it really not possible to reach any consensus even on such indisputable issues as the Slovenian anthem in this case? And this is at a time when it can save us from a generally invisible situation only and only unity and national unity, but not just political. We are not aware of how urgently we need more genuine patriotism and national consciousness in these times, which is indisputably represented and encouraged by the National Anthem or Health Agency, the necessary reinforcement of patriotic feelings and national affiliations between Slovenians and Slovenians. Today, one of the predecessors has spoken of comparable nations that give more value. Once again, thank you very much to my colleague Barovic once again, because I have actually reinforced his position. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u101	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch." Get Anton Urh and Rudolf Petan ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u102	Thank you very much. I do not support the proposal to amend the law. I agree with the professional arguments raised by colleague Majda Potrat. I'll tell you myself, I think it's strange for you, some emotional opinions. For I was present when the Slovenian hymna Zdravica sang here for the first time in this National Assembly. She sang spontaneously, on September 27, 1989, she was sung by delegates, today said Members, in the conviction that on September 27, 1989 the Assembly had done an extremely important act for the Slovenians to adopt amendments and amendments to the Constitution in three areas: independence, human rights and the parliamentary system. Let's leave it, but ideal or not, probably imperfect. There must have been a lot of things missing, and we've settled later. But then the delegates and delegates spontaneously sang the hymn. This anthem was later sealed a few more times. It was fifth, so we had it in the constitution twice, first in the constitution of the previous system and later in the new constitution, twice in law. There were a few small debates, now I didn't go to see in detail whether there were a little more or a little less, but essentially not. At least the debate was on the anthem, most of the discussions were on the coat of arms and the flag. It's understandable why. Because she had a five-pointed star. And, of course, when the Slovenian political direction was changed, this symbol had to be changed and changed in those days. That is why I think it would be normal and right for us to leave a memory today at the 20th anniversary of self-reliance for people who are under the symbols of 20 years ago, and especially to sing and be lonely. I'm sure that was the majority opinion of Slovenes and Slovenians back then. Never, but really – you may – I have not heard any serious political, perhaps professional, comments on the content of Health and the fact that we sing as our hymn seventh kitica of Health and that this content also means to us a definition of the situation of Slovenia within the international community of nations, which we have finally achieved with admission to the UN and later with admission to the EU and NATO. I don't know what's wrong here and I'll be very, very grateful if we stop ideologicalizing this issue in a way that the adoption of the law will mean a solution to the problem that is "gross" for Slovenians and Slovenians, but above all that we will fix the constitution - please don't. Don't overdo it where you don't have to. And I do not want this to give rise again at 20 years of independence to an ideological debate, who is more right about the anthem, the flag and the coat of arms, unless, apart from Mr Grims and the SDS, this moment in Parliament, no one has mentioned that they would propose a change of law. I will not support and advise him or suggest or, if you will, I would ask that you do not really make a major ideological problem if we do not all have them together, not just you – all together – enough at other points. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u103	Please, mag. Branko Grimes as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u104	Thank you. The speaker obviously wants some answers. First of all: warnings that the current regime is not appropriate have not come from the types of SDS, but have been made publicly and very loud by Mr Boris Pahor, who defines himself as left-handed, as left-wing. And he warned because of the conditions in which he lived, because of his life experience, because of his long-standing struggle for the Slovenia that the current regime was not appropriate. At that time — years ago — he also said that it would be appropriate to change the Constitution because he was convinced that the constitution said that our hymn was only the seventh kitt of Zdravica. But of course, when we look at it from close range, and we also get to know it, the constitution doesn't have to change, because the truth is that the Constitution is very well written and defines the entire Health Care as an anthem, only the law is clearly inconsistent with the Constitution. There's probably been a little bit of a "copy paste" in some way, but some things have just changed into marriage, even though the constitution has arranged things differently in between, and this is not constitutionally correct. What is more important or at least so important is the issue of values, because Mr Boris Pahor did not point out this for ideological reasons, but because he is convinced that the values in Slovenia today are under-appreciated, especially the value of patriotism. And in this part, we all agree with him in the SDS. This is indeed a matter of values and in a paradoxical way this has also been seen today in this debate, because I personally would like to thank Mr Rože for his inappropriate debate earlier, because in the best possible way he has shown, also on behalf of a certain part of Slovenian policy, how very justified and how very urgent it would be to bring the law into line with the Constitution and also in law to be defined as an hymn of the entire Health Care, because it is values, for common human values, for those fundamental values on which the State of Slovenia is established.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u105	Thank you very much. The word is Anton Urh [[He's not here.]] . The word has Rudolf Petan, to be prepared by John Kikelj [[..]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u106	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! So I'm going to try to refrain from making too much comments and analyzing individual kitties, because I thought that someone who analyzed this was already under the influence of tomorrow's vote. This is a serious and important issue of hymn, which also belongs to the area of patriotism, which is a matter in Slovenia that we should talk a little more about, especially if we compare ourselves with other countries, with our neighbours, where it is a value. We have much to say about Croatia, even negative, but as far as patriotism is concerned, their anthems and the content of the texts can be learned, as well as others, who are somehow viewed with contempt or with a negative foregleam. I have to say that when I first heard about this idea, I was surprised, but after I thought about it, I realized that this idea was perfectly right. As far as the Constitution and the law are concerned, there is no doubt at all. That's right. I support this proposal. I was particularly convinced that such a proposal was correct and balanced if you wanted to when I saw how it was handled by other countries. For example, Austria has three kittens. As far as I'm aware, these kitties are longer than one of ours. Italy has five kittens. Germany has three kitties, each one longer than one of our own. Not to mention any other countries. Maybe there's something else I'll say about this German anthem. But as for the content of our eight kitties, I think each one is appropriate. Of course we must, because the text is not written 20 years ago, but the text is older than other countries have, it is necessary to take the content in the spirit of today. That's why I don't see any problems with the third kit, which one of our colleagues has been harassing, especially if we know that, for example, Germany has a text that we Slovenians know well, in German, of course, I'd rather say in Slovenian: "Germany, Germany above all else in the world..." Maybe that's what we used in the original, and it has a negative omen. The Germans did not change that text after World War II because it had to be taken in the spirit of time. If any text was used, that's another thing. They kept this text. Probably nobody today thinks Germans with this hymn, with this text that something is wrong, that someone is threatening us, not by any chance. And that is why I see all our eight kitties in this context, and I also see no problem if Prešeren, who was named as a freethinker by the same speaker, sang Slovenian girls and Slovenian boys, and if he added anything else. Maybe there's a cat missing from that speaker. But, thank God, Prešeren didn't write about it because this text is a patriotic text and it really doesn't belong there. I think that's the right text. Maybe it's just the right time to think a little bit about this text right now. Maybe now's the time. Maybe 20 years ago he wasn't. I'm not going to make any criticism here, why it wasn't complete then, not at all. Maybe today is the right time to think about what Presheren wrote 170 years ago, because they say that every thing comes back once and has to be imagined, and sometimes in a metaphor, we say, "and it's written like someone wrote today." And if anything, then this text may be considered to be written for today. They wouldn't give up anything if they had the whole text because other countries have it, but maybe we haven't even dedicated ourselves to it that other countries have it, and we wouldn't be any exception. I'd like to mention something. If the constitution says that the healer is our anthem, then it seems a little strange to me if the text of one bouquet can be used as an anthem and the rest as a tip. This is a little strange and I can tell you from practice, because I am also a member of the singing choir myself, that I feel a little uncomfortable when we eat a tip, because you never know what those who listen will think - whether they will have to get up when they hear this text, because the healer is known by people, whether we sing it as an hymn or as a potion. This is a little strange, good Slovenia can live with it, but it's a little strange. This should also be considered. It's embarrassing, of course, if you don't know what it meant, what those who were doing that song were thinking. As for the coin, where the beginning of our anthem is also at hand, I would say that a coin, which is also used in other countries of the European Union, even in Germany, could not be properly written down by those third bouquets. So that the coin thing is something special and all the kitties are good for home, but of course the Medici for which other members of the European Union would not be, so there is probably nothing else to write on the coin as it says. But I'd like to point out something else when we're right in front of the anthem. Hymno usual, I will say thank God, we hear very often at sports events where there are also Slovenian athletes, but there since I know that the organizer of each participating requires that he bring with him his anthem, so the organizer does not torture himself with it, except where he is playing live, but of course Slovenia will also have to have a discussion, because our sports associations have two options when it comes to instrumental execution, whether it is that wedding on a blow or symphonic form. But lately I have noticed that some sports relationships give some symphony form, which is not the true symphony form with a symphony orchestra, but I don't know if there are four violins or anything and sounds empty, so you don't feel like it's an anthem playing with a Slovenian athlete, a winner at a particular event. I note that countries that have some patriotism, such as Americans, Germans, Russians, and also Croats, always have a musical performance in the sense of a steppe, which has some power, gives some sense of power and inspiration at that moment, but unfortunately at these moments we gave some performance not with a symphonic orchestra, but a symphonic form with a few instruments that sounded like you didn't know what athletes were thinking when they heard it; what we heard; what we were hearing, but what was the other thing, instead of having a sense of success, some power, there was something that you didn't know what it meant. So it's probably going to have to be said about it, and maybe this is just the chance to remind myself of that. And when I mentioned our neighbors and our patriotism, I would just like to remind our southern neighbours that they already have in the text the power that talks about their homeland, so that even in this context of comparison, it would probably be the whole exercise of pure law, and if ever, then it's the right time to talk about the right time, that it's the right time to talk about it, to say something about it, because we have a country without patriotism, it's going to be a little harder. Where this has led us, we see at the present moment, and if ever, then in moments like this, we would need it, and if the hymna is the one, then it also brings something. I would also say, because I know that there was a great debate 20 years ago, which song was supposed to be our hymn, because there were two proposals, but I would say that it was necessary to give recognition to the Slovenian Army, that it had taken the second song "The flag of glory" for its anthem, because if it was not already a Slovenian hymn, but at least the hymn of the Slovenian Army, which just stressed this patriotism, which perhaps in this seventh verse of our true hymn is a little lacking, so that it might be somewhat equal here, but of course military celebrations, it is something else than the opportunities for singing and playing the Slovenian hymna. I support this proposal. This does not mean that it cannot be improved in any way or that there is another solution that could improve this law. I'll vote in favour. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Janez Kikelj has the word to prepare Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u108	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me begin by expressing some surprise: in the proposal itself today is mentioned as a proposal by the distinguished academic Mr Boris Pahor. I think that the drafters of this law are officially SDS Members. With all due respect to the academic, the great Slovenian and the patriotic, but he is only one of the people, of the respected people who have expressed their opinion. I think we should ask someone else. Perhaps I should mention Mr Butcher, Mr Kmecl, and I could count them. Why am I saying this? There was a lack of debate on the subject. The coat of arms, the flag, the anthem, these are state symbols, symbols that cannot be replaced by the votes of 46 Members and Members or perhaps even less. I think there is a need for consensus here because the Republic of Slovenia is the homeland of all of us, or are sitting there to the far right or to the left. If there is no consensus here, then such a law is not even suitable for admission. Let me put it another way when we're talking about Mr. Boris Pahor as left-handed. Mr. Boris Pahor is not a leftist, he was a great critic of the left, I can say once again, the Slovenian is a patriot, dead, but he was never a leftist. The anthem in its current form, the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia has been for 20 years. We Slovenians accepted it as our own. Even in the 1980s, if you remember, everyone sang, "Let all the nations live." Why? The Slovenians wanted peace and freedom, friendship. What happened in our former common country was far from that. We have been brought to the brink of despair by the very nationalisms that have presented themselves as patriotic, not forcing us in the same direction, please. Next thing. The proponents are talking about patriotism. You know, patriotism is also the respect of the official authorities of this country, respect for institutions, history. Anyone who doesn't respect his past, who wants to change his past, change, delete, or otherwise is not a patriot, is just a politician and a speculator. At the same time, one of the signatories to today's bill, which represents himself as a great independent, could not even have the courage, political culture, to come to the President of the Republic, to the legally elected President of the Republic, who invited the actors of that time to the reception at the time of the 20th anniversary of Slovenian statehood. So much for your patriotism. Finally, once again, it must be stressed that we cannot change the state symbol overnight by means of a simple law or by voting on a majority, so I will certainly not vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u109	Thank you very much. The word is Mirko Brulc. Get Bojan Konticz ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u110	Your Honor! The idea of changing the anthem was probably born from a long time ago. Our constitution clearly says it's an hymn of Health. Don't talk about the number of kitties, and to sing it at celebrations and events in all eight kitties, it's absurd. But we like to compare ourselves with the Germans, the Americans, and I don't know who it is, I don't need this comparison. I find it very difficult to hear that the Slovenian Army is also playing, say, the American Silence or Silenzio, in the wake of the sad events of the wedding. Why don't they play ours by the lake near Triglav? Why do we always have to take samples in some other nations? It is dangerous not to support this proposal. In this country, anyone who thinks a little differently can experience a lot. And that is unfortunately dangerous today, this proved to be at this meeting yesterday, when – as I read today in the newspaper and yesterday, the SDS Members were present – the speakers mentioned a butara with 63,000 sticks. Who said anything about a butara in Rome? Then who got in the back? Is that patriotism? Don't touch my word. Is that patriotism? And you participated in this honorary event. And those foreign boys got their backs, one in Tivoli got a knife in the back. Therefore, it is dangerous that I oppose your ideas and that we need four hours of time here to resolve some fantasy suggestions from an individual who is trying to convince us of what patriotism is. You're not gonna explain this to me. I will not support this marriage. I am proud to stand and sing Zdravljica, I always sing our coastal hymn of the Risen Primorska and this is my homeland, my flag, our coat of arms, our army, our police, our uniforms and our anthem to remain as it is. God help her. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mag. Branko Grimes as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u112	Your Honor! I say again, and obviously some of you don't like to hear this very much, this idea of complementing or appropriate regulation of the anthem has also been formally proposed several times at public events and also in writing. Her proposer, however, was the prominent writer Boris Pahor, who is defined as a prominent leftist, as a left-wing person, and therefore I find it difficult to understand that you do not want to hear his thoughts in any way. If you doubt them, let me read you a paragraph from his letter: "I have received your proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian peoples of the flag. I congratulate you on your decision on such a proposal, and I am sincerely pleased that you are proposing it by introductoryly citing my thought and my ideas..." and so on. It is said that it is perfectly clear who is the author of this idea. Those ideas don't belong to any of us. Above all, we note that in the part where we are talking about an anthem as a whole, it is not even the idea of Mr Pahor, Boris Pahor, that there will be no mistake, but it is the idea of those who wrote the Health Agency as a whole into the Slovenian Constitution. And this is an obvious manifestation of discomfort — even your own — when we just want to reconcile something with the constitutional text. There's obviously a conflict between the law and the constitution. But I must say that what really surprises me in what you've just shown is this expression of nationalistic delicacy or fear of strangers. Why are they modeling and playing a song that, as you stated, is from abroad? See, if they did so elsewhere, then Serbs would certainly not have the current anthem, for the author of the hymn God of justice, which is an official Serbian anthem, written in their constitution since 2006, is Slovenian composer Davorin Jenko, a prominent Slovenian composer who stands in the monument of his native Churches in Gorenjska, you can come and see it sometime. If they had acted as sadly as you have now interpreted and demonstrated in your debate, they would surely have thrown it into the trash and looked for another hymn. And this is why we can also use foreign examples when they are positive and when they are in harmony with the values we follow. In fact, this whole story is primarily about values, and I thank you, like Mr Rože, for your debate, because there is another proof of how important it would be to change this law and to bring it into line with the Constitution and to write down the Health and thus its values as a whole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u113	Thank you very much. The word has Bojan Kontic, prepare for Silven Majhenič. Get Robert Croat ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. President. I hope that this brief debate will not be confirmed or used to describe it as an argument that the law on the Slovenian anthem needs to be amended. Whoever places someone on the left, on the right, in the middle, Mr Pahor is very difficult to place anywhere in this Slovenian political spectrum. You'll have trouble with that again and again.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u115	Please, peace in the hall. Then you'll answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u116	I would have commented, but it doesn't make sense. Even if we put Mr Pahor on the left, you know, there will be nothing new if you hear that we have different opinions on the left, that we have never hidden or forced them into a common denominator. I would, of course, like to highlight the fact that Dr. France Prešeren did not have a goal in front of him in order to write the Slovenian anthem. He wrote a potion, he wrote a toast, we took it as an anthem, and in fact I agree and respect the Slovenian anthem, as I respect all the other symbols that Slovenia has, and I also mean the coat of arms and the flag. Nor has the flag been just so widely accepted; some are more, others are less satisfied. In the past, too, she wanted to change, and there were controversy about her back. Today is also about the hymn. When we talk about these symbols, I would like to especially see Slovenian flags in Slovenian cities and villages on national holidays. But I don't know if I'm seeing bad already, or whether it's true that these flags are actually getting smaller instead of more and more. That sometimes there are flags on the institutions, which show quite a clarinet image and should be replaced with new ones. So this is the attitude towards symbols, this is the indirect attitude towards the country. And it is probably necessary to talk about this, and also our residents and residents must be repeatedly urged to treat our national symbols with respect and that we actually use them in accordance with the law. I hear many times in Parliament: why you are proposing this law and why you have brought this law, and this law does not solve people's problems, but this law does not solve the problems of entrepreneurs, craftsmen, and this law does not solve banks. This law solves nothing why you are bringing laws into Parliament to deal with legislation that, at the moment, does not actually contribute to getting out of this situation. And those who give the most emphasis to these matters are proposing a law that will change the anthem. If you think the anthem is going to change the position we have right now, then you're in the wrong. And this is also one of the reasons why I oppose this change. But we are already demolishing the system, now I do not know whether it is planned or unplanned, but what we are somehow no longer satisfied with in this country is whether it is the legislative branch of power, the judicial branch of power, the executive branch of power and- in our country is actually everything under the question of credibility. We have parliamentary democracy, we also have it written in the constitution, and no one is actually satisfied with this parliamentary democracy today, but something else better in all the arrangements, including European ones, for example, have not yet been invented and we do not have a better option. But when we dig the grave of parliamentary democracy, we'll just be "coffeeing" for a long time who will hold the shovel and who will dig faster. And then there will be no further dispersion of the opposition - the coalition, in the end there will be a lack of confidence in the parties both on the one hand and on the other. Together, we will not mean anything in this country and, of course, parliamentary democracy is under severe test. But that's what's going on, and it looks like we're not gonna end this. And we look at public research, and once again, we are more satisfied with the results. But let's add together, respected colleagues and colleagues, the results of the parties and political leaders! With these results, we don't get to 50% if we add them together. So most people are dissatisfied with both the coalition and the opposition, and in vain you comfort those in the opposition who think it will be better if you form a coalition and in vain comfort those who go to the elections and think it will actually be so. And look, today, to change the anthem that we're actually proud of and is "sit" and is our anthem and that most citizens and citizens know, they can seal it, they can declare it, so they can say it, it's very important for the awareness of the country, for the people, for the Slovenes and Slovenes, citizens and citizens, the inhabitants and residents of our country. And there's no reason to change the anthem at this point. And there's one more thing. It can be banal, what I'm going to say now, you can imagine how carefully people will monitor the implementation of an anthem at festivities if it takes six or more minutes and then we'll say again that people have no respect for state symbols. I suggest at least I do this alone so we don't support this change. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The word has Robert Croat.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u119	Have Franz Jurša ready, just a moment. Milenko Zicherl prepares then.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u120	Dear colleagues, dear colleagues. Immediately in the introduction, these hints, which have just been said to change the anthem, must be rejected. That's not true. We just complement it, the anthem stays the same, the same. So the matter is also aligned with the constitution, which clearly states what the Slovenian anthem is. The Slovenian anthem is Zdravjica and we only supplement it. Why don't you support this? Classic excuses: a second-class topic, for the moment inappropriate, we have enough other problems and problems that the country should be dealing with right now. Look, Mr Kontič, if you think this is true, then bring some kind of law to the National Assembly, which will correct this picture in which Slovenia is at this moment. In this term, I don't know if you've put in any smart ones, as you can see. I think it is difficult to add anything to the proposal we tabled to the proposal for amendments to the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem. It is true, however, that the power of the proposal to enlighten, substantiate and even substantiate the words that may sound familiar to all of us even in some way or at least somewhat familiar to us. And I would like to share them with you and allow me to quote them: "The human soul, its concentration in the spirit, as the life sense of man. I work with my hands, with my mind, to live, to get food. And as long as it is not the ideal regulation of a country that offers human life to a priori, not in return for its material work, but rather as a human goal, as a country based on human principle. But while this is not the case, the cultural work they have the purpose of raising humanity, perfecting never the perfect level of human development in the harmony of the soul. That's the point. And something else, the life of the soul, but from the soul, which is the center of all ethical emotions, comes all human behavior and therefore requires cultural work, not civilization, not education, the real meaning is the culture of the heart", the end of the quote. With the words just said, I would like to establish a substantive and meaningful parallel between the patriotic aspirations of the academic Boris Pahor when he speaks of the essence of the Slovenian anthem, about its written message, which he designed to the end and sent to people of all times, Dr. France Prešeren and among the newly quoted thoughts of Sreč Kosovel. True, dear fellows and colleagues, time has passed. It has been a long time among those once written by the author of Šumeči pines, Srečko Kosovel, and between the emphasis and courage of the time and space expressed the expectations of one of the greatest minds, fighters for the Slovenian language of Boris Pahor. Both of you are telling us one single message; if we are a nation, let us be proud, and this moment is lacking. Let us be warm and cultural, loving to our homeland and to ourselves. Let us not always be alert and everywhere, wherever and at any time, to all those who are willing to listen to us, to tell us clearly and loudly, heart and heart: "God lives our land, God lives all the Slovenian world, brothers all that is us, sons of Slovenian mother". And let us not be ashamed or afraid to say it out loud. I am not, so I will also be happy to support this amendment of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The word is Milenko Ziherl, to be prepared by Breda Pecan, followed by Alenka Jeraj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Since I remember, we've always had some problems with comments on state symbols, in a specific case on the anthem. In the previous country there was a problem with the anthem Hey, the Slavs, who had the original text and the copied melody, and when they, I think the Yugoslav and Polish delegations stood together, they could ask themselves whether they were playing the same hymn twice because there was no text to see the difference. With our anthem, the Slovenian anthem, there was no problem. Melody is acceptable, recognizable and, as such, has sat in the hearts of all conscious Slovenes and Slovenes, and man would not have paid any attention to this, because it has become so routine, if not for the respectable writer Boris Pahor to warn that this feline, which is only performed as an anthem, is more like an international one, would be more suitable for the European Union's anthem, which is not needed, because the Union already has its own, or some associations of countries, that it is too weak to express Slovenian identity and that there are more suitable kitties in Health. And here it was worth thinking about, because as weak patriotism as it is present in Slovenia, it is already quite worrying. As we look at neighbouring countries, this patriotism is much more pronounced, even by being abused in the near past in some countries. Let me mention patriotism in neighbouring Croatia: every day when the official programme of Croatian TV starts at seven o’clock, the flag appears on Croatian television and the national anthem is intonated. In addition, immediately after this or a few minutes before that, a short display of some of the most beautiful natural or cultural, folklore beauties of Croatia. And with that, people identify themselves and accept it as a patriotic gesture. In all of these debates, which I have listened to so far, and above all, it drives me into the wrong will of some bartering, what is appropriate for a presentation abroad, whether the hymn is too long, or will be difficult to stand by when they listen to it, and so on. The symbols you identify yourself with are not a barant. Some symbols have survived centuries, including millenniums, and have also been misused. A colleague mentioned the symbol of the Roman state, Roman democracy, Roman parliamentary democracy, as well as the abuse of Roman parliamentary democracy when the dictatorship of the emperors took place. This symbol was two butlers with an ax in the middle. The meaning of the symbol was that each stick could be broken separately when connected to the butary, with a hard chair, but you can't. This symbol was abused by the Italian fascism, which voluntarily declared himself the heir of the Roman state. The heir of the Roman State would have been, even if he had maintained some democratic values, a suitable time two thousand years ago, and therefore would have taken into account the will of the people - then this would not have been misused. In dictatorship, however, it is certainly a symbol of abuse. A similar symbol was chosen by the Indian tribes, who joined up in the defense war against the invading American army. A butary of arrows, and in the middle of the axe and the same meaning: you break each arrow separately, but together you cannot connect. The symbol of the capital city of Mexico: an eagle pecking a snake on a cactus. He survived almost a thousand years, for this symbol is the symbol of one of the most famous nations on the High Plain of Mexico - the Aztecs, for they were to set up a city according to prophecy where this symbol appeared, and they set up a city where today's capital is located. Symbols are not traded and should not be abused. And we're talking about, is there any pussy in the healer that's too kicky? Yeah, let's listen to the neighbor's kitties, let's listen to the Italian anthem - because in some parts even the melody is so much like the thunder of cannons. What if we promise to call a thunderstorm on our comrades, because we have no enemies in the European Union as long as it works? We keep moving forward with a friendly gesture, but if there are enemies, our ancestors in this space have also shown them thunder and have also walked with beaten pumpkins from this country. So at the time, it was meant to strike a thunderbolt. And if this ever happens again, I hope that the Slovenian nation will be so united again, and if this is not resolved peacefully, it will stand up. So to be ashamed and barter with a version of the great poet, what is appropriate for export, what is appropriate only for home, but to barter whether the hymn is too long or too short - this is not really part of the debate on what to be a national symbol. I myself advocate taking into account the instructions, the opinions of our great writer, who I think is in the right place. He – in a rather difficult environment in Italy, where the Slovenian minority has been going through difficult times, much worse than now – will especially feel what is important, what connects Slovenians, what unites Slovenians and what should be a symbol, where he must feel not only in the ears, but especially here, in his interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The word has Breda Pecan, get Alice Jeraj ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u124	Thank you very much. At the outset, I will say that I oppose any changes to our national symbols, including the change in the anthem of the Republic of Slovenia. I would like to say that in Slovenia we have even two anthems, including one of the provincial ones, we could say, Arise Primorska, where, interestingly, only the Primors know when to get up. Now we have also learned some "continentals" how to do it. I'd like to say something else. I think we need to know some other cases from history, such as how the French discovered spies, German spies crossing the border into France in World War I. What did they do to find them? If you don't know yet, these spies knew perfectly French, but how did the French figure that man was a spy? So they told him to sing the French anthem. If he could sing more than two lines of the French anthem, it was clear he was a spy. That's why it's important to know that if a nation knows the tiara of its anthem, all six lines, or as many as it is, I won't sing it, so I'll remember, because only when I sing it, I can think of it, I can't recite it, the lines are seven. Then, of course, it won't be possible to detect spies because we'll all know the story. And that is why I think because we no longer have enemies around us, there is no need to detect spies, and I think that it is quite enough if we have this bouquet, which is very, very symbolic, because it is aimed at peace, in cooperation, in understanding among the nations that all around us will be our friends and theirs, and I think that it is for us Slovenes who are not able to get used to hanging flags on the front of houses that we are not aware of so much as December 26th or June 25th, not to mention that many do not want to know what kind of holiday is on April 27th. By the fact that others need to know what holiday is August 15th and December 25th. Even so, we do not have any internal or external connection with this, and on the other hand, we are also opposed to including religious symbols in the Slovenian anthem, if I may say so. That's why I think that's all we're missing, that someone will remember and say, "God forbid, God save us Emperor John."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Alenka Jeraj has the word to prepare Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u126	Thank you for your word. Some of you have estimated that the Slovenian anthem is not a topic to be discussed right now when we have a whole bunch of other problems and that we should be dealing with other things. Given that we are celebrating the 20th anniversary of Slovenia this year or just these days, it is unlikely that time is so inappropriate or more appropriate. Why did Mr. Pahor warn him, or what stabbed him most at the anthem, or why and who did he tell that he disagreed with her or suggested that we change her, complement her? The main problem seems to him that quite a few of my predecessors have also said that the anthem does not mention the Slovenian nation at all or this part, the seventh whale we are talking about, does not mention the Slovenians, although it is the Slovenian anthem, our anthem. This seems absurd to him because then he lists quite a few other countries and their anthems and why it is indeed an anthem to identify himself as part of this nation. We would certainly expect that if any other song does not mention the nation as such or the Slovenian nation, but only in an anthem, it is certain that the proposal proposed in the SDS is to make a contribution to this change in a reduced version. Constitutional lawyers also wonder whether it is right to determine what an anthem will be by law, which is a lower act than the constitution. For the Constitution provides that the Hymn of Health and the law which is subordinated to it could regulate only use but not affect matter itself - that is, the provision already laid down in the Constitution. I'm not a lawyer, we should probably talk about this with lawyers, but it's a very simple thing. We have written in the constitution: "Animna Slovenije is Zdravica. The use of coat of arms, flags and anthems is regulated by law" but the law cannot be established over the Constitution and say, an anthem is only the seventh kitica of Zdravica, and this is actually written in the law and is interpreted as such, or we know that we have been performing the hymn for twenty years, that is, the seventh kitica: "Let all nations who long for the day live." I will, of course, support our proposal, because I believe it is good and we do not cancel anything, but we define it as a short version of the second and seventh bouquet of hymns, but at key holidays - that is, at national events, the whole of Health, as we have written in the Constitution in the already mentioned Article 6. Colleagues also cited neighbouring countries as many whales, if the problem is now in number, as well as the content of the text that other nations have in their anthem, where they actually sing their own homeland, their own nation. We, the Open and Friendly Slovenians, are for all the nations to live and yearn for and with it is nothing wrong and it is right, but it is much better that we are first proud of what we are, that we are Slovenians, to our homeland, to our Slovenian world. Some of you have also read to us, or you yourself have noticed that it is too low a national consciousness, that our children, as well as our adults, know poorly the holidays as symbols of this country. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already done a lot of things for this, we have done a lot of projects, a lot of action, a lot of activity. I do not agree with my colleague Kontic, who said that there are fewer flags, I see them increasingly, and I am pleased to see them – even in the environment from which I come, because it means that all these years of activity, warnings, congratulations, various actions have fallen to fertile ground and that we are increasingly aware of who we are and that we can be equal members of the wider community, the European Community, from our roots and our identity. That is why I would suggest that each one of us may do his best to increase his or her domestic consciousness so that first we may be the ones who hang the flag, not the ones who have no hanging, but the ones who have nothing else to do. So, I will support the proposal and suggest that you do the same.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u127	Thank you very much. He's got a word for Jože Tanko, get Milan Gumzar ready. [[He's not here.]] . And then after him, France Cuckoo.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u128	Thank you so much for saying that. I think it would be right to bring the Constitution and the law into line in this area as well. The Constitution clearly prescribes what the Slovenian anthem is. It's written that it's a healer. The healer starts, like, with the first kitt and ends with the last paw. The law simply states that the Slovenian anthem is only the seventh kit. Many things should also be corrected elsewhere, including in the area of the education system, even elsewhere. Mr. President of the National Assembly, it can be funny, a lot of things, I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u129	Go on, Mr. Tanko, go on.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u130	I'm sorry I started talking to you, and you're terrible at this, and you're laughing. Just that your constitution is Spanish for you [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u131	Tank, believe me, I'm not laughing.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u132	Like anyone else, you've already shown several times in the National Assembly. [[...]] So I think it makes sense for this proposal to be adopted and for some new criteria to be established for the use of the hymn, some new solutions. We certainly see that in any of the comparative countries written in our proposal, they are not ashamed that their anthem is long or that it is too long. This is no problem in any of the comparative countries enshrined in the law: not in Serbia, not in Russia, not in Italy, not in the United States, not in any other country. All the countries that give something to their identity, all the countries that give something to their patriotism, proudly, to have in some appropriate way aroused when playing the anthem also national emotions, but they have it, they keep it. Unfortunately, even or fortunately, almost all countries, including in this proposal, have a part of a text that is not only internationalism, but also emphasizes their national identity, their origin, their cultural and other content. And the toast is such a song. The healer also contains all these elements, such as the Russian anthem, the Serbian anthem, including the American anthem, after the constitution is very similar, but obviously what is good for the southern or eastern Slavs is actually the greatest prejudice for us. And also because of this, some who talk about why this amendment of the Slovenian anthem is not appropriate refer to the very left reasons that it will be too long for them to learn somewhere else, that they will need not know what to fix, that people will not understand and so on. People understand very well what the content of the Slovenian anthem is, what the content of the anthem is and what the hymn message is. What's the hymn message? Here we must ask ourselves whether this Slovenian anthem is one which is now prescribed by law, that its message is right and good enough, deep enough, motivational enough for the inhabitants of Slovenia. Is it just good enough for spies? In fact, in this country, we are facing some fundamental prejudices that already show up in this mandate in a whole range of decisions that are European and that we have not been able to accept or accept in some way into our regulation. Not even on the declaration fee. I think that actually all these pains that come from some unfortunate period are being dragged back to the 21st century, when some things are simply not able to be admitted, when some things are simply not able to be condemned, when we are not able to hold on to some necessary piettes, but we are trying to do it with some tricks, tricks to put into some background and side track. This is a key problem when we talk about the symbols of this country, this is also a key problem of all these counterfeits that are happening to us, of all counterfeits and, in fact, of Slovenian policy, if this is not a policy, if these are not politicians, then we should take some appropriate step forward and define ourselves, take a position on these matters. An hymn or a change of anthem is only one in a series of these steps to be taken. There is a lot to be done in a textbook, a lot to be done at the level of some ethical code, ethical conduct, even at the level of respect for those who think differently, Mrs. Potter, even those who think differently, and also those who try to move things. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u133	Peace in the hall. Would you, Mr. Tanko, indeed, what is the point of this discourse? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u134	Mr President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u135	to a man who didn't answer at all. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u136	If you don't care about holding a session, then I'd suggest someone else do it for you. [[...]] I suggest you make sure [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u137	So that you don't feel the way I'm holding this session, I'm asking you to stick to the agenda.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u138	Mr President, I propose that you ensure a level playing field for all the debaters in this Chamber. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u139	Mr. Tanko, first warning.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u140	Thank you for your kindness.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u141	Keep going!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u142	So I think there are still many steps to be taken at this level. The happiest are those who advocate the preservation of the existing anthem, in fact, because it is completely similar to the International. And from this anthem is actually eliminated everything that emphasizes Slovenia, Slovenia, which underlines what the Slovenian anthem should have and represent the Slovenian anthem. I think some thought is needed. I hope that the situation will also mature in some appropriate time so that we can discuss these things in some appropriate way in the dialogue. Clearly, the situation in this country and at this point, in this confusing situation, has not yet matured, and it appears that it will take a few months for things to mature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The word is Milan Gumzar. [[He's not here.]] . The word is France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u144	Thank you for your word. Today's debate is particularly interesting in terms of responses to the proposal. The proposal is very concrete, very clear and I do not know why it is so terribly strange and unacceptable. One more time. It has already been mentioned, but let me sum it up: Austria has an anthem in three kittens, it says, "Austria's beloved." Italy has an anthem long five kitties, the song is "Italy and Italians". Germany, the new, post-Nazi, has three kitties: it repeats the text "Germany, Germany above all else in the world, unity, justice and freedom for the German homeland". The Russian Federation has four whales, saying above all, "Russia, holy our country, you are the only God-preserved country of birth." Serbia has eight kittens: "God saves us, God preserves Serbian soil, Serbian people." The United States has four kitties, it also stresses patriotism and sings in the chorus: "We trust in God". Look, our marriage hymn has a short bouquet that says, "Let all the nations that long for the day live." You know it, I know it too. It's beautiful, it's beautiful, I'm always in favour of being open to other nations and showing the will to make this world more beautiful - not just Slovenia. But something is missing, are we ashamed to talk about our country? Are we ashamed to say that we are Slovenians, that we love Slovenia, not just the whole world, not just neighbors, why isn't it? Ever since we've been alone, it's been bothering me, and it still bothers me, really. And if our writer, Pahor, bothers him, too, don't make fun of it. The symbols are of great importance, people are beings of symbols, which actually separates us from animals. All it is is a symbol, even words are symbols, not just some sounds, some vibrations in the air. They're saying something behind that symbol. As a result, I am extremely disturbed by such statements as "phantasian proposals" and so on. Tell Pahor, go to Trieste and say his suggestions are fanciful, be honest. And that this second feat, if involved, reminds you of Nazism or that you are afraid of such a Nazi look. Are we really such people to fear the obvious that someone will mark us as a Nazi if we say: I love Slovenia, Slovenia is my country? The second guitar reads: "To whom first the merry toast, brothers! Let's go! Let's go! Our God our land, God lives all the world of Slovenia, brothers all that is us, sons of the glorious mother!" Are we ashamed of that? Then why don't we put this in the anthem that's too short now? Some such arguments, for the hair attracted, were also argued by the Ministry against, namely, that in preparing this law we did not take into account the Law on Regulatory Activities adopted by the Government I am a respected representative of the Government, but when has this Government respected this law in recent years? Or is it in the Family Code that we will consider tomorrow, which has over 300 articles? Was the profession invited or did the profession discuss it? And finally, this is the first consideration, a very short marriage. First, let us make a public presentation of the opinions, so that this matter goes to the debate. Not everything the opposition proposes, no - I'd say banal - spit, no! And above all, not things like our symbols. Someone mentioned the tragedy with these flags, of course, ten years ago a call was made for all schools to hang flags when they operate as public institutions, as we see abroad. There's no flag anywhere. A study of patriotism in public institutions or schools and educational institutions is being conducted. The first data is already known, 95 kindergartens have already been analysed, among other things: how many times in the last year was the word country, Slovenian country, Slovenian nation used in the conversation with children. Several times throughout the year, "state" has been used. But never "dom" and "Slovenian people". Isn't that very typical of Slovenia? Are we afraid of that expression? Are we afraid? You know, remember who doesn't like himself, or who doesn't respect himself, doesn't respect the neighbor. Anyone who doesn't like his country doesn't like others. This is some very profound logic, and the symbols have the task of saying it. And whoever identifies himself with these symbols is also identified with the purpose of these symbols. So I really suggest that we accept this thing and then we also accept such banal things as the instrumental execution of an anthem that should only be within the range of one kitt. That's acceptable, that's no problem. It's a principle.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u146	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. First of all, I would like to express my dissatisfaction with the conduct of the most opposition party, which is considered to be its obligation to attack at least once at each meeting of the National Assembly - I must not laugh, I must not do anything. They have comments in my way of speaking, acting, I am a sovereign person and I am responsible for all my words and all my actions. And I find it unacceptable and directly frightening if this is a model for what Mr. Leader of the largest opposition group has announced, what will have to be changed in the future, if people have to change too, it is terrifying. The change of the Medici is only one of the things that is to be changed. However, the president of the same party announced that Slovenia needed to be cleaned. But one of the gentlemen from this party said they wouldn't close the archives, they'd lock people up. So much for how we behave, how this Council of State overwhelmed the hate speech, which I am still talking about, that is, at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, my colleague was dealt with in a way that is an exclusive example of hate speech. When it was referred to as a blonde, it was an insult to her, but at the same time it was also a mark for a woman with certain qualities. And when the blonde's case spread to black, it meant hate speech for women. And not just in the National Assembly, but for women at all. Mr President, I can't imagine how such things can be helped even if we sing like an anthem of all eight Pockets of Prešeren's song. And now to the healer. To all those who have problems with the title of Prešeren's song, let me say that the title of this song is Zdravica because the poet's will is taken into account. For there are several records of this song, but in the profession it is said that the last hand is the author's, including the author's will. And the author's will was a healer. That's what it says in the constitution. In 1844, Prešeren wrote Zdravica at the newspaper in 1844. So this was a toast, and I gave the whole address on purpose to consolidate the nature of the song Preshern wrote. This is a genre song that belongs to a group of beer songs or potions, toasts, and when Prešeren wrote this song and dedicated it to omisi, you can read it or listen to it because it was the original fifth song, Prešeren wrote it with the thought that this fifth song would be a song, you can follow the way he looked at the omism and the kitique of the kitico he toasted to those who were with him — in mind, of course — who represented this omizé. When it is written in the constitution that the anthem of Slovenia is a Medici, this record is to some extent really lithotic because it speaks only of the song, indeed the title with the great novice is written there and then the law said that it was a poem by Franceta Prešerna and for an anthem that set the seventh kitica. So, I would remind you that we don't have an anthem in short form and a longer version, we have one. The hymna is the seventh feat of Prešeren's song Zdravica. Prešernová Dražica remains, a song as a whole that needs to be interpreted as a whole and seems to me that she has been given more than once today. In fact, the thought of Prešernovo must be taken into account as a group of all, but when I think about the seventh kitica, the Slovenian hymn, I am proud of this hymn. Because it establishes me as a citizen of a country which is open to all its neighbours and who, at the same time, with great self-confidence, sees itself, because only those who can be confident enough and feel this inner strength can also be open to the world around them, but in this same bouquet, I don't know if you've looked at it to the end, it's also about the kinsmen. This means that the thought of the country, of the kinsmen, including those who cross the border, is present whether you want to or not, whether you understand it or not, but it speaks of the freedom of all the compatriots. It has all those elements that the hymn should have. However, if anyone is disturbed by the fact that there is no country mentioned in the 7th kitt, then you have read the Prešeren's medicine poorly, because in all eight of the eight listed, written and even in that 9th most frequently unpublished kittock, there is no mention of the country anywhere. Excess mentions a land, a home, not to mention a homeland, even a native mentions it. These three expressions are used - home, home and country. Prešeren's home does not mention. Then what are you going to do with the text of Prešeren's Medici because Prešeren did not use the word of his country and will therefore be insufficient? So much for the text itself. You'll see that the left reasons why we don't accept this change are stated - let me warn you that you came alone for the left reasons for changing the anthem. If you're talking about it being too short because others have more, because others have longer, you're the first to be warned. But I have read the opinion of the members of the Academy of Music, which is just about how important it is for an hymn how long it takes. The hymn can't last indefinitely. If you read a letter from the Association of Cultural Organizations of Slovenia from the time when the Executive Council decided on what the Slovenian anthem should be: they also warn there that the relationship is in the way of singing pussy, let it be the first, the second, or then the seventh, different, and that with a true hymnic fertilization always sings the seventh kit. The reasons for this were considered professionally, they were generally accepted, and therefore I think that now is the debate on this and the reference to Boris Pahor, the respect of a worthy writer, but I am interested in how many of his books you have read because we appreciate the writers for their work, not according to their words spoken to the public. However, when you refer to Boris Pahor, let me say that at the initiative of Boris Pahor, also supported by Slovenian PEN, we accepted Trubar's day as a holiday for this country. If you are going to watch the vote: 77 votes in favour, 49 votes in favour, SDS contributed one vote, but I do not know whether he was knowingly committed or by mistake, however, you did not follow Pahori at the time, nor did the Slovenian people follow Pahori at the referendum on the arbitration agreement, Boris Pahor objected to the arbitration agreement. What am I trying to say? That I am broad enough not to be disturbed by different opinions, or that I will take into account the opinion of anyone, even one I highly respect, and I will judge by the arguments I collect. And I have gathered arguments that tell me that this proposal cannot be supported. What worries me the most is what has been mentioned, what will need to be changed and you know, one more thing I would like to warn you: no one has mentioned this so far, and I very much remember this because all I hear about Prešern is that I listen with special attention and I also remember: there was a lot of interference in this country, but you can go to the records to see that the Slovenian anthem begins with "Friends, have given birth to vines sweet to us" because they were obvious, I will not say anything, but the obvious also came from that part of Slovenia, which is said by a good dropper and lovers, of course, that I am thinking of northeastern Slovenia. So, you can have doubts about all things, and the question is, do these concerns stand for an reasoned opinion? And once again, the majority decision for the anthem was what it was like to be the seventh feat of Prešeren's song on the tune we talked about. And for testing I would also give someone from the SDS to recite the eight kitties of Prešeren's Health because we will no longer go to primary school to study there on the mouth of the entire text and then this would become our practice. What is the ratio In three ways an anthem can be implemented: in instrumental form, in fifth form and in combination instrument-fifth performance. [[....]] And here begin the problems that have already been discussed, and I do not intend to remind myself of them now. Once again, I say: the anthem is a symbol and if you start to break the symbols, and you, your respected colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, have repeatedly applied the principles, remember how you filed a constitutional charge against the President of the country, how you treat the President of the country, how you falsified the archival material, so that you can prove it, or that you could accuse him of not saying anything about systematically expressing distrust and encouraging distrust in everything and everyone. But you know a story about boomerang. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u148	Your Honor! After all this discussion, I am even more convinced that the opinion I have presented on behalf of the Government is correct. The demand for such matters to be identified by a procedure involving the widest public, interested and professional, in this debate has proved to me to be the only correct one. The opinions we have heard here, both for and against, bring with them a number of concerns that cannot be thought of so quickly that it would be delicious for this assembly to decide so quickly. I would also like to point out that the resolution to which I referred was adopted by the Assembly in 2009, and at least for our Ministry of Field Affairs, I can say that in the coming days, you will be faced with laws that have received broad public debates and coordination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative of the motions? Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u150	Your Honor! I think that this debate has been extremely instructive for everyone accompanying it. For she has shown, above all, one key thing. Political science already teaches that any policy should be based on values. This debate, both by Members and Members of the majority of the ruling coalition and by the work of the government, has shown the following. The crisis in Slovenia is also due to the current crisis of values. The crises of values that are so characteristic and so obvious today for individuals of the ruling coalition. Why is he really going? If you look at today's entire session in the light of what I'm saying is that it's a policy of values. The current anthem in that part, although apparently unconstitutional, but it's mostly here, unfortunately, not interested. In that part, which is enshrined in the law, i.e. only in Article 7, it is highly internationalist. He therefore places all the nations, the whole world before his country, before his country, before the Slovenian world. We wanted to implement this change only, thus following France Prešern on the proposal of Mr Boris Pahor. There's no demolishment of symbols here, but the actual implementation of symbols is as recorded in the Constitution. But as you can tell, that's obviously not of interest to some people. For what then happens if in politics the value of internationalism prevails over the value of caring for its own community, for its own country, for the Slovenian world? Then we are witnessing decisions in the National Assembly, and on the proposal of the Government, that there is no problem in giving more than a hundred million to help Greece, although we all know that we will never see it again, and there they strike and share the sixteenth salary at the expense of our workers and workers. But when it comes to a request for help, a few hundred million that would allow for a faster development of the White Land, not a speech, but a fire and a sword, which we will not give within a reasonable time. This is that crisis of values that you yourself have shown nicely in this session. Therefore, you are defending the present clearly with the Constitution a non-conformity in the law, which covers only the seventh kitica of Zdravica. It is not a problem to give 5.6 million per month for payment, a surcharge if you want, otherwise with a separate pension agreement for the southern Republic at the expense of Slovenian pensioners, at the expense of Slovenian taxpayers, but if you need help, it is not. And here's the fundamental problem, because it's putting it internationally in front of the national interest. This is with you every day, obviously. Where reference is made to national interest, it is only recalled that it is trying to obtain political points. Again, the case from exactly this mandate. What did Sir, this time Borut Pahor, do in 2009? He came to Parliament and said we had blocked Croatia. I grabbed my head back then, and I said, people of God, that's not how international politics work. We will receive a response from the international community that will punish us. And then you're going to kneel down, and I used that comparison, which now reminds me of that joke when one chick says to the other: but now I'm going to fly another circle in front of the rooster, and I'm going to cluck the whole voice, so he won't think I'm like that, and then, of course, she's going to squat. Only six months later: pressures from the European Union and the US and Mr Borut Pahor agree to an arbitration agreement, even though he knew he was not good for Slovenia. And because of him, we can get a headache again if there's not a lot of luck in further developments. This is done because international values are always given priority over national values, and this is not about nationalism, far from it! It is only a positive attitude towards the country, to respect its own country, its own community, the people with whom we live, all people and also different opinions. Even intolerance to different opinions, even to Prešeren Zdravica, was as much today as you want. One lady began earlier with an ideological debate that God was also mentioned here. "God lives" is a greeting, but, "God lives" is a greeting, a historic greeting and deserves respect just like any other form of historical greetings that have been common for some time. But those of you who made a fool of it, even ridiculed us, mocked your own anthem, for I claim that the hymn is written in the Constitution as a whole healer and it is only a contradiction between the law that regulates it and what is written in the constitution. And that's why all those, to put it mildly, inappropriate analyses that have been done here don't stand. What's more, they reflect a very strange ideological morbidity and impatience. Just look at the example, during the previous regime Dr. Kmecl wrote a book on Health and found in it only positive elements. Of course, he particularly praised internationalism in Article 7 and the revolutionaryism that came from it, which is understandable at that time, even for the values from which it came. But he also found only positive values in everything else. Some of you who have debated today from the ruling coalition have found here extremely negative emphasis, negative values and mocked your own constitutionally defined anthem. Why this is happening, I really simply cannot understand this, but I claim with full responsibility that this debate has proved that the crisis in Slovenia is also, and in particular, a consequence of the current crisis of values. Let me finish, as one of the speakers did earlier, with a slightly more emotional comparison. I am not thinking now of what was said earlier by one debate: you came for left reasons. If that were true, of course you would have grabbed them with both hands, which is far from the truth. But I'm thinking about something else, every anthem triggers an emotional charge, a positive emotional charge of patriotism. In this respect, ours, in a form that is clearly contrary to the Constitution as enshrined in the law, is slightly weak and it would be good to correct it, to arrange in a way that would in no way destroy the symbols you have so far, as you have suggested, would strengthen and upgrade them and allow these positive feelings, a positive feeling of patriotism to develop even more. One of the things that is not even a matter of law, but I think that we should follow sooner or later, is that people are allowed at events to express this positive feeling either with applause or in any other appropriate way. This artificial restriction, as we have witnessed in Slovenia, is not good in my opinion, but only by the way. What would be particularly noteworthy is that at the time when we celebrate the twentieth anniversary of independence, we return 20 years ago, at that time and that emotional moment. Earlier, one of the discussers, specifically the age of the Slovenian Parliament, Mr Potrč, mentioned that in 1989 when the constitutional amendments were adopted, the seventh kitica of Zdravljica was placed in the premises of the Slovenian Parliament. During the same period, and later, even during the period of independence and then, a number of conventions took place after Slovenia. Most of these, not all of them, were organised by Demos – the Democratic Opposition of Slovenia, which then opened the way to real independence by winning the elections. And what were we singing then? There was nothing unusual back then. Maybe that sounds a little weird today. The last time I had a slightly unusual view of one young person who did not personally experience it, that we ended the event with a simple, historical tradition based on greeting: "God lives our homeland of Slovenia". This was perfectly normal at the time of independence, and some of you were there, and you know that. But this greeting is also written in Health and why it would be disputed why people would look at it strangely. But this is our hymn. I mean, I just can't understand this debate today and this relationship. But let me get back to those events. There were a huge number of people at these events. Some went to tens of thousands, and at these events, you will remember, you sang The healer as a rule. From the first to the last fern, but there was no problem with it, there was nothing to flush out the patriotic charge. No, no, no, no. What's going on is between people. Those who have experienced this emotional charge know what I'm talking about. This was the most beautiful period, certainly for any political involvement, for a life in politics. In fact, in my personal opinion, politics should always work because it acted independently of fear, independent of prejudice, but in the interests of the community and regardless of fear, it was not fear, but for common values and common objectives. And that's when it developed. Then something happened with the adoption of this marriage, one piece just disappeared, and there was only a seventh kittie. Something seemed a little strange to us, and maybe we didn't react immediately, and some of us didn't have a chance because I wasn't in Parliament, I'm afraid. And then Mr. Boris Pahor warned of that. I don't know why some of you went back to shame today. As was then, unfortunately, at the time of the arbitration agreement, when you declared him and some others Alzheimer's Trio. He's a great fighter. But it does not adapt to a given moment to speak what is right for one authority, but, secondly, what is right for the other authorities, but follows some common goals, those which it understands as national objectives, national objectives, development goals, and so should any policy. The other person that comes to my mind first is Dr. Pučnik. He also knew even the Doctor in mind - so much in the answer to the lady - and I know her myself and I will be happy to quote her if she supports this law today, and the law will be adopted. But if you don't, I'll wait for the marriage to be passed, and then I'll quote it and sing it, and by then I'll sing it somewhere else, where it'll be an opportunity. For to conclude, I should remind you that this would make it an integral part of the official Slovenian anthem, the one by law, because it is already written in the constitution, but that it would then also be by law, the "unity, happiness, reconciliation to return to us". The search for a common consensus, then. The one we have unfortunately not witnessed today was even a mockery and ridicule, even a mockery of Frances Prešern and a healer, which I really cannot understand. And then we'd have something else, and I'll be done with it. The end of the Slovenian official hymn by law, not only that which is written in the constitution and which is apparently not implemented in practice, would be read: "for many days God lives, which makes us good people". It's about good people, and it's about goodwill. And once again, to all sincere congratulations on the 20th anniversary of the independent state of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u151	Thank you. Since all the debaters who have been declared and wanted to do so have been given the floor because the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask, does anyone else wish to discuss it on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? Yeah, I see your hands. I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Everyone has five minutes. Mr. President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u152	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm not gonna spend five minutes, just a short time. I was already away for more than half the time from attending a celebration at the 20th anniversary of the Civil Protection of Slovenia, or I was unfortunately there alone from the National Assembly and therefore did not listen to the introductory debate. But already this part that I have, when I read the Constitution and this law, has given me one thought: from the debate it follows that this proposal will certainly not be adopted. [[...]] So I have a completely simple proposal for a group of Members to put forward a proposal for a constitutional opinion and the Constitutional Court will have to do something about it, and I am sure that the National Assembly will then follow this decision. After that, I think what a thrill it was two days ago when the Constitutional Court corrected a decision by the National Assembly concerning Ankara and, in particular, those who did not follow the Constitutional Court's decision and voted contrary to the decision were thrilled, so that I found that they were very excited at all. So I am sure that the Constitutional Court will do its part in this case and then the National Assembly will follow the Constitutional Court's decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u153	Thank you. Mrs. Lavtinger Bebler, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u154	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. I understood this sarcasm in the words of Mr James the Prefacer, but let me say what I have to say, and I apologize in advance, with quite a few harsh words. To claim that the anthem is what we now have and as we now perform and sing it, contrary to the constitution, is pure assholeism. Because the constitution said: "Animna Slovenije is a Zdravica. The use of an anthem and the coat of arms and flags is determined by law." So, for the first time, the constitution said that the hymna of Zdravica did not tell even whose it is, but we know that there are quite a few Zdravics in Slovenian poetry. And secondly, we have adopted a special law to determine how this hymn will be implemented and what the text is and what the actual writing of this hymn is. So deceiving people in this way seems extremely, extremely inappropriate to me. And if anyone really wanted to propose and felt this need to change this hymn, with which we have been completely satisfied for 20 years and with it we have marked a whole range of celebrations in our independence, then it would be at least appropriate to give the initiative and find the widest consensus for such an undertaking and also invite everyone else in this Parliament and in the general public to do so together. But I must say that I personally feel no need for any change in the anthem. For 20 years in this independent and independent Slovenia, we sang it, in the beginning many of us also "buffed" that last guitar, when we had to go down with a voice first, and then only after repeating it up, but we always took it as our own anthem and it always inspired and inspired us, and it makes me feel extremely inappropriate what we are saying here today. And just one more conclusion comes to mind. Just for every thing, whether it's an anthem or a 20-year-old mark of independence and independence, there's someone who's trying to screw this thing up and find some ideological misunderstandings and some ideological differences and foment some low passions and emotions. It seems to me that I have been depressed, actually depressed, and I am sure that I was there since day one, and since I was learning solo singing, I assure you that I have never been "punched" in this anthem. I know that from the beginning we have been united in the fact that this healer and this seventh kitty will be what will not cause any of our opposite views and no other inappropriate feelings and that this will be what will bring us together. So I can't explain to myself any different than this stunt is here today and in order to be able to mark a 20-year-old single, independent and independent Slovenia, I think it's for what someone said today from SDS, "there's always something behind": I want to know what's back here, I don't think it's any good. Of course, I can't support this marriage. As it is said, pure assholeism is to claim that this is contrary to the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u155	Thank you. Wait a minute. I have my word first. Wait a minute. Mrs Lavtizar Bebler, if any Member thinks otherwise than you do, it is not assholeism, and your words have been express insults and therefore I am obliged to remind you of this as Chairman. Whether you apologize or not, of course it's your business. Do you have a procedural proposal? Here you go, Mr Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u156	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The first part of what I was going to suggest has already been done. What has now been done is, of course, the gravest insult, and given the subject that we are dealing with, it is indeed extremely inappropriate. What I would like you to do again and warn the distinguished forerunner, however, is that she is not a true uneducated person and that because of this what she has said is particularly controversial, because her advocacy that then the law can regulate something that is regulated in the constitution so that one part of this line is exactly the same as if – when the Slovenian flag is established by means of a star and a white, blue and red flag – then the law has arranged that only white color remains. This isn't about regulating use, this is about something else, and especially because you have this legal knowledge, and you know what this is about, your words are extremely offensive and inappropriate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u157	Mr Grimes, this wasn't a procedural proposal. But she does have a procedural proposal from Mrs. Pecanov. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u158	[[...]] [[microphone off]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u159	Then shut up because you don't have a word if you don't want one. Mr. Saiovic, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Good-bye to all of you. Well, this country and this anthem certainly don't deserve political overheating of debates like today. I agree that the hymn is good, even excellent to me, but I do not oppose that it should be even better, even wider, but that those who have a political service and profession should be aware that such matters are being adopted in another context, at some other time. When politics cannot even unite on pension reform, when we exaggerate the intolerances related to the Family Code, when we mix apples and pears, we attribute a good purpose to the bad and something else, it is simply necessary to have a sense of when to open such a debate and how to accept it. However, if I look again at how this country has been treated by the candidates in relation to the President of the State, in relation to the change in the constitution that is supposed to be changing to solve the daily political problems, I must say that we have not all gathered together not the right way, not the right time, and I suggest that we end this debate, wait for some better, more optimistic times, and when we hear each other more and also listen, we open the debate up again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u161	Thank you. This concludes the list of applicants. I conclude the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide today in the framework of the half-hour vote after the end of the 17th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Agricultural Collections of Slovenia. The draft law was tabled by a group of 5,000 voters and voters. With regard to this bill, a group of twenty-five Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the initiator of the proposal of Mrs Ludmila Novak. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u162	Mr Vice-President of the National Assembly, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished representatives of the Government. We have before us the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. The Nova Slovenije Party has decided to submit this law for consideration because of the many initiatives it has received from citizens and citizens. The law proposes that mandatory membership in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia be transformed into voluntary membership. We also propose deleting the articles of the current law which define the way in which elections are to be held in the Chamber. The current electoral system is very complex and expensive, and participation in elections is very low. In 2008, only 11% of the members participated in the elections. The manner and execution of the elections should be governed by the statutes of the Chamber, as proposed. All since the establishment of the Chamber are complaints of compulsory membership in the general public. Mandatory members report to the Chamber that they do not benefit from the services and services of the Chamber and have no interest in membership. Under the current law, the Chamber represents natural persons or owners of agricultural land whose cadastral income exceeds EUR 167. This does not mean that these landowners are actually engaged in agricultural or forestry activities. However, the transitional and final provisions of our proposal stipulate that the current mandatory members automatically become voluntary members of the Chamber. Those who no longer wish to be members shall, in accordance with its statute, apply to terminate membership. In just fourteen days, New Slovenia has collected almost 6,000 signatures to support our bill. The adoption of this proposal would, however, help to increase the efficiency of the Chamber, which should follow the laws of the market economy. The Chamber will be forced to offer its members more than ever before. For example, certain free services, cheaper services, etc. The Chamber is now financed only to a lesser extent from a constituency contribution, mainly from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia and through the provision of public services in the field of agriculture and other tasks conferred on it by public authority. More and more are the services offered for payment by the Chamber to its members and non-members, for example: analyses of wine, land, business plans, which users pay in particular. In 2009, the Chamber had the following revenue: the budget of the Republic of Slovenia of 18 million 205 thousand 86 euros, that is 62.2%. Own activity: EUR 2 million 886 thousand 834 or 9.9%. The pay of users for public services: €5 million 494 000 435 or €18.8% - this is from those who are already paying membership fees. However, the compendium contribution is EUR 2 million 335 thousand 159 or 8 %. Extraordinary revenue: 324 thousand 463 or 1.1 %. Together, in 2009, the Chamber realised EUR 29 million 245,000 977. Right now, in a time of crisis, it is also time for the installed chamber apparatus to be adapted in 1999 according to the needs of membership. The aim of the law is in particular to establish a more effective form of integration and representation of the interests of farmers, agricultural, forestry and fisheries organisations, and to simplify elections to the authorities of the Chamber, thereby reducing costs. Dear Members, in New Slovenia we are confident that this law will encourage better and more effective functioning of the Chamber. That's why I'm asking you to support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u163	Thank you. I give the floor to Mrs Tina Teržan, State Secretary, to explain the opinion in an introductory manner.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u164	Your Honor! The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has already assessed this in the years 2003, 1998, 1997, 1994, 1993, or legally prescribed compulsory membership in a certain form of association means interference with the freedom of association referred to in Article 42(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia. The Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has adopted a position that chambers or other forms of association established by law for the exercise of public powers or certain tasks in the public interest do not belong to associations protected by Article 42 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. It follows from the existing legal system that the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is undoubtedly a representative body capable of representing various interests in agricultural and forestry activities. The Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is also an interlocutor to the State in the preparation of expert opinions and in the procedures for the regulatory regulation of agricultural and forestry activities. Compulsory membership is the basis for identifying and monitoring common interests, thus providing a basis for direct and appropriate action by the State. Without compulsory membership, the number of members would be significantly reduced and the agricultural and forestry chamber would lose its representativeness or important role in the integration of fragmented Slovenian agriculture. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia advocates a broader public debate between the members of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, which will show whether membership supports the existing organisation or not. If the decision of the Slovenian Agricultural Forestry Chamber for Compulsory Membership is to be made, it is certainly necessary to redefine the criteria for determining the level of the participation. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia notes that the Proposal for a Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia or its amendments has a significant impact on the organisation of the Chamber and the functioning of its members, and therefore considers that such a status change would require a comprehensive amendment to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. In view of all the above, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, which was submitted to the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia for consideration by Nova Slovenija on behalf of 5000 voters, and therefore the Government considers that it is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u165	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mag. Borut Saiovic will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u166	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. A friendly greeting from the Secretary of State with a co-worker and a respected motioner! I must say in the introduction that in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we have some reservations against the adoption of this law, especially because the Chamber is carrying out a number of public important matters and because the law does not provide for graduality, but we welcome in any way the substantive reflection that opens up in this topic. We are confident that today's story on one of the steps can be concluded, but in any way it cannot mean the end of this story. For the system, like everything else in life, also the system of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia needs changes, additions, improvements and adjustments to the time in which we live. The 5,000 voters proposed the abolition of the mandatory bill and the introduction of voluntary membership in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, as well as changes in the area of elections to the offices of the Chamber. It is necessary to look back a little, because everything since the establishment of the Slovenian Agricultural Forestry Chamber in the long run in 1999 is the most problematic part of the mandatory membership of those natural persons who own, lease, or how otherwise they use so few agricultural and forestry land to avoid taking the agricultural and forestry activities seriously. Usually such members do not benefit from the services and services of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and therefore, logically, do not want to be members of the Chamber. However, we think that we have made the most sense in relation to the mandatory membership of natural persons in the Chamber by abolishing the amendment of the law in 2008. We then doubled the entry threshold for compulsory membership of natural persons in the Chamber, which meant a 35% reduction in membership and an 81% reduction in the number of those paying for the lump sum contribution. As a liberal party, we are certainly committed to voluntary membership in all, including all, chambers, both in the economic and professional sectors. In doing so, we are aware of the fact that we are being hampered by the fact that in Slovenia most of the existing public councils are still in place and that most of them are entrusted with important public powers, but this still does not change the fact that they are forced associations, associations in which membership is compulsory. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, at the principal level, we are certainly closer to the type of chamber than the legal person of private law, which allows natural and legal persons to voluntarily connect to facilitate the achievement and exercise of common interests. Private Law Chambers shall carry out similar tasks as public-law chambers. The State may even grant them public powers and may also provide them with part of the funds or any means to exercise precisely those public powers. It is essential that this is no longer a matter of coercion, which would also make the members of such chambers more connected and motivate them to become active members. We are convinced that if membership in the Chambers were optional, voluntary, then the Chambers would do much more on a substantive level, they would oppose membership in order to express interest, benefit from membership and then persist in the Chamber. Such voluntary membership could maintain representativeness, but it could certainly retain the public powers conferred despite voluntary membership. We are aware of the existing legal system of chambers in Slovenia. As regards membership in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, we cannot go beyond the important conclusion that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has already assessed whether the statutory statutory membership in a certain form of association constitutes an intervention in the freedom of association referred to in Article 42(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia. At that time, the Court took the view that chambers or other forms of association established by law for the exercise of public powers or certain tasks in the public interest do not belong to associations protected by Article 42 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Furthermore, we firmly believe that changes to the legal and system-wide regulation of the Chambers should be gradual and evolutionary if we choose to do so. I already said that in 2008 we took one step. Not today, but certainly in a short time, even this year, the time is ripe and there is a need to take some of the steps forward in evolution and to be able to say within three, four years and to boast that we have an agri-land chamber with a voluntary membership with which the members are pleased. And I think that at least a part of this reflection is shared by a number of members, as well as the current leadership of the Slovenian Agricultural Forestry Chamber, which does not oppose it, everyone is aware of the challenges and needs of the current time. At the same time, it would be worth studying the experience and taking into account all the good and all the bad salaries of the fast, someone would say too fast, the transformation of the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce into a legal person of private law, which in the last five years radically, quickly, overnightly restructured also on the basis of demands and initiatives that have been duly assisted in the field of politics, but today we can say that, despite or perhaps so, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia is one of Slovenia's most active, influential associations of the economy in Slovenia and cannot be overlooked. In the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, therefore, as regards the changes to the mandatory membership in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, we are taking the lead in moving forward, unlike the government, in the new definition of the entry threshold, or in the establishment of conditions for compulsory membership of natural persons in the Chamber, which should lead to a further step in reducing the number of members of natural persons to a level and the number of members who are genuinely engaged in agriculture in this country, and let's say that we take as one of the criteria, the fulfilment of the subsidy applications and here we are at about 60, perhaps up to 70 thousand. And according to the information we have, at least part of the reflection is joined by the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. The next logical step, which must be set and measured in time, must be the abolition of mandatory membership in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, accompanied by a comprehensive amendment to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. Above all, determine the time, time and content, what and how to proceed with the necessary public powers. The bill under consideration has right here because it does not foresee evolution because it does not foresee a gradualness, in our view, the main substantive flaw which will also consider in our consideration that we do not support this law today, but we will certainly support it in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia next time, if nothing will be done in the year as far as the substantive changes that we have highlighted are concerned. Today, we will vote that the proposal is not suitable for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u167	Thank you. Mr Janko Weber will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u168	Thank you for your word and a nice greeting also on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats. In the history of the creation of the agri-land chamber in Slovenia, we always meet mainly with the politicization of the operation of this organization. Its creation has already been, we can say, extremely politically discolored, at the time, one political option advocated the establishment of an agricultural forestry chamber, the other we had a lot of concerns and nevertheless there has been an establishment in a way that somehow departs from the other chambers, because it is not only about the agricultural forestry chamber representing all those who own agricultural land and forests and deal with agriculture, but also exercising the rights of establishment in agricultural and forestry institutions. This is a special status, or a significant difference in comparison with other chambers, because we passed on the actual exercise of the rights of establishment in agri-agri-agricultural institutions by law at that time. The fact is that there is an extremely strong agricultural and forestry profession in agri-agricultural institutions and that, last but not least, the financing of these institutions is the subject of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. So, on the one hand, when the objective of obtaining an agri-economic chamber of important experts within our bodies was met, of course, we also caused that the chamber is in fact no longer entirely independent, because it is largely financed right from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. And we can also understand from the materials of the proponents that the budget of the Republic of Slovenia has been planned for the functioning of the 30 million euro chamber, of which eighteen million is provided by the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. Here is the dilemma, whether we really have enough of a stand-alone interlocutor, a representative of farmers when negotiating with the government. This is one of the outstanding dilemmas in our view in our parliamentary group. With regard to compulsory or voluntary membership itself, we have also spoken a lot in the National Assembly and have also adopted some laws that have actually raised the threshold for entry into the mandatory membership in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, thus somehow excluding those landowners who are genuinely passionate about this activity and trying to decide what the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia should do, particularly those who are also engaged in agriculture. So the dilemma that we are facing right now in this law is how to actually bring the House to that point so that it will truly be the most representative representative representative of farmers in discussions with the government. One of these dilemmas is certainly compulsory or voluntary membership, but our opinion is identical to that presented by the government, so that we support the government's position in this regard, so that a thorough discussion takes place first within the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia itself on whether the Chamber works successfully or where it works worse and what should be arranged to improve this business, particularly in the opinion of its members. Only then would it be appropriate to draw up the text of the law, which would reflect in particular, at least we hope so, a certain majority position of the previous members in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. If we were to redefine ourselves today as a solution proposed by one political party, it would mean that we have actually increased the impact, if we can say so, of one policy in agriculture, which is not good. So that agriculture certainly does not serve one political party, agriculture has a truly important task and it is irrelevant whether it can be subordinated by one political party or another. Above all, I think that agriculture is important for us to produce enough food for our self-sustainment and that, lastly, we keep the rural population and, lastly, the cultural landscape, and if you want biodiversity, which is to a large extent, but also one of the debates, it affects the fact that we are preserving many species precisely because this activity is actually being carried out. So we oppose supporting the proposed solution, despite the fact that 5,000 signatures have been collected, but one political party has gathered them. And this, in our view, is bad for further fate and for taking the position that, if the law had been adopted, would have been in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, because we would always have before us a political party not an independent institution that would represent the position of farmers. Therefore, in the Group of Social Democrats we will not support the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, but we support a broad debate within the Chamber itself on how it should actually work in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u169	Thank you. Mr Robert Hrovat will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u170	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Respectable. Nearly 6000 citizens and Nova Slovenija are proposing that due to increasing public complaints of compulsory membership in all types of chambers we adopt amendments to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. The bill includes a change in compulsory membership in the voluntary form of membership in the Chamber, which is intended to contribute to the greater efficiency of the Chamber, as this proposal will make the representation of farmers in the Chamber subject to its effectiveness or depend on its work. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we find that it is not often a misrepresentation of compulsory membership in the public. The draft law follows Article 42 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the right to assembly and association. Everyone has the right to freely associate with another. The transitional and final provision provides that the current mandatory members shall automatically become voluntary members of the Chamber. However, those who do not wish to be voluntary members must request that the Chamber be suspended. So the chamber would not be without its members overnight, nor would it need to re-enlist its members. It's a gradual transition without some major shocks. In our view, this is a highly positive approach and a good way for the Chamber to change in the area of pooling of interests. Well, let's make sure he's the one who wants it. Almost 6,000 signatures to abolish compulsory membership must also mean a signal to us Members and Members indicating the will of those who have given their signatures. It's probably about those who aren't most satisfied with the current system. The fact is that agriculture in Slovenia represents 10% of large farmers or larger farms and 90% of small farms, which obviously also have no interest in being active in the assembly system. Data, which is worrying, is also an electoral participation in elections to the bodies of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. In the last elections, only 11% of all those who had the right to vote were represented, so the law makes sense for us to delete the current provisions on electoral procedures and on the composition of the Parliamentary bodies and leaves this to the statute of the Chamber. This will allow the current large-scale system of direct elections to simplify and thus save disproportionately high costs for these elections. The draft law shall be without prejudice to the status form and scope of the public powers conferred on it by the Chamber and to the functioning of the public services in the Chamber for which it provides the means for the functioning of the Republic of Slovenia in its budget. In the past year 2010, the Chamber created EUR 30 million of revenue for the poor. The assessment of the compendium contribution, the contribution to the previous year, was planned in 2009 at a value of €2.3 million. Of this planned contribution, the proportion of natural persons, i.e. mandatory members, represents 92 % of the total planned dose of the assembly contribution. The Chamber of Own Activities generates only EUR 2.8 million in revenue, representing a weak 10% of annual revenues. On the other hand, public service users, i.e. farmers, contribute more than €5 million of the annual revenue of the Chamber. It follows from the above that the share of the chamber's contribution is relatively low compared to the total revenue of the chamber, as it represents only 8 % of the revenue. Therefore, the claim of opponents of this law that compulsory membership is necessary for the smooth implementation of statutory tasks does not, in our view, have any real basis. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that, by adopting this law, the Chamber would in some way be forced to offer its members something more than it has done so far. The experience of the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce also shows that after a change of compulsory membership, the Chamber is significantly more working for its members. One more time. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we argue that the fear of the end of the Slovenian Agricultural Forestry Chamber in the event of voluntary membership is superfluous. On the contrary. With the amendments and additions included in the bill, it will be possible to reform the organisation of the Chamber, simplify the electoral procedures and thus save certain funds while offering members the benefit that only they will feel they need and will remain its voluntary members and will gladly contribute their membership. It will continue to be possible to carry out basic tasks by means of this amendment and by supplementing the law, such as representing the interests of farmers, agricultural, forestry and fisheries organisations, professional assistance only on this subject, addressing agriculture, forestry and fisheries issues and could also be listed. For all of this, I can say that we will support the bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr Aloise Posedel will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u172	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, nice greetings to proposers, colleagues and colleagues. The proposal is certainly welcome as such to be considered and to discuss the situation in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and even more in agriculture as such. There are too few opportunities in the National Assembly to talk more about agriculture and, above all, more responsible, such is the state of agriculture. This can rightly be said by those who come from areas that are important agricultural areas and that it is certainly a claim that the situation in agriculture would be even worse if it were not for the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, a statement that endures and is in place. Therefore, it was a very far-reaching and good decision in 1999, when the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia was established, and I repeat that this was a good decision and probably a rescue decision for agriculture at the time. As in every organisation, in each association, conditions change over the years, society itself changes, and the way it manages over the years becomes sometimes so that it has to be changed and it is not immune to it, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, which is why the dissatisfactions have arisen and have also resulted so strongly in 2008 that a substantial step has been taken to improve the functioning of the Chamber by raising the threshold. This resulted in the fall of a large number of dissatisfied members who were not dissatisfied with one another rather than the owners of one land, some small part of the forest or similar, and were therefore mandatory members. Further steps and time have shown that there is also a need for change. This is so by individual members, as well as by the government's position and not least in the coalition contract of this government, this coalition is written down to regulate the assembly system in this mandate. As it will settle, we have waited a year, a second year and in fact there has been no activity in this area, and therefore three proposals have been tabled by the Parliamentary Group for a change of membership both in the Chamber of Medicine and also in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. Not with automaticity to just change membership from compulsory to voluntary, because we are aware that these things are not so simple. That this is a matter of public authority, a system that does not tolerate such a turbulent change, but that it encourages such government and the management of individual chambers to actively approach the necessary changes, so I am convinced that this proposal of New Slovenia is also one of such steps that will positively contribute to the search for, what and how to change membership, how to involve members, how to find a solution that those who benefit from the State, from the European funds, or that they participate in calls, that they must be mandatory members and that they can then compete for these funds or receive subsidies, and that this knowledge will come to them and that the process will run in this way and that membership will become basically voluntary, but compulsory for those who will benefit from these funds. We are therefore convinced that this proposal is also geared towards being acceptable as such, but probably not, despite the respect of more than 5,000 signatories. At this point it is in Slovenia that if someone comes into society and says, are you against it, they will all shout, "I'm against it," and after a while they ask, "Why are we against it already?".. Negative signatures are not difficult to collect or object to, but it is also good as this initiative to study this and the government's position should be welcomed, so together with the management of the Slovenian Agricultural Forestry Chamber and all those who are aware of the importance of agriculture should seek the best form of association. Certainly direct, rapid transition to voluntary membership would not be good, and we will not really support this proposal from New Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u174	Good afternoon. Dear Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues. Dear representatives of the applicants. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. When we are talking about the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, we are undoubtedly talking about a representative body capable of representing different interests in agricultural and forestry activities. The Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is an extremely important interlocutor, in particular the countries, or the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food, in the preparation of expert opinions and in the procedures for regulatory regulation of agricultural and forestry activities. At the initiative of the Slovenian People's Party's senior management, there has been a serious debate in our party about the situation and future of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and its mandatory membership as one of the main points. Thus an internal survey was carried out during the membership, and then all the major bodies of the Slovenian People's Party were discussed. We also spoke with the original father of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, Dr. Francem Zagogozno, whose opinion is clear and unequivocal. The immediate complete abolition of compulsory membership is, unfortunately, also the end of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. We must agree with this opinion in the Slovenian People's Party, and we are convinced that it would certainly be so if we went to the abolition of compulsory membership. Without compulsory membership, the number of members would be significantly reduced and the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia would lose its representativeness or important role in the integration of fragmented Slovenian agriculture. At the same time, it would certainly lose the powers it has from the State, as well as the assets it has in management. The proposers of the proposal are all too aware of how important the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is to farmers by offering services to its professional services and as an important interlocutor in the preparation of agricultural legislation. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are inclined to propose amendments in order to reduce the number of commitments to compulsory membership. This would result in the payment of membership fees to those who are recipients of the measures of the common agricultural policy and also receive certain funds from this title and would also join larger forest owners or larger forest owners. In the Slovenian People's Party, we also agree at this point with the Government's opinion that the proposal for a Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia has a significant impact on the organisation of the Chamber and the functioning of its members. For this reason, this status change would require a comprehensive amendment to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, but the aim of the proposer was not to seek so much a solution, but to make a move that is also in some ways desirable and would certainly be in line with this exemption for a variety of farmers. In doing so, we do not think that farmers would not have paid, but we would have stayed completely alone, poorly organized against the state apparatus. The Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia or its members shall collect less than a tenth of the funds available to the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, and these funds are primarily intended for the operation of the assembly system. All other funds are linked to the public powers conferred on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and also to the property it has at its disposal. In the Slovenian People's Party, we will also advocate simplifying the elections to the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia in order to make them more visited and more accessible to beneficiaries. We are also aware in the Slovenian People's Party that the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia also needs a certain reorganisation and certain adjustments. But there is no point in blinding ourselves to the inevitable fact: by abolishing membership in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, we would no longer be able to talk about the Chamber as a representative and independent interlocutor, and it would also lose the public legal status that represents, as such, the interests of agriculture, forestry and fisheries. At the beginning, I mentioned Dr. Zagožn as the ideal father of the Chamber in this form and his words were also: with the loss of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, the Slovenian farmer will lose the last interlocutor who speaks the language to farmers and understands this language, unlike the various agencies and other bodies in the Ministry, which many times simply do not understand and are more distant from agriculture from day to day. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party, we will not support this law, but in the end, let me add what I have also heard from Dr. Zagozno and what he has told me from the rich history of the operation of the assembly system across Europe. He mentioned two policies that, in the history of European space, have tried to abolish the already established chambers. The first was successful, but after his political era was over, they reestablished the chamber on the same basis as before. The surname and name of this first gentleman was Adolf Hitler in Germany. The second attempt that failed him was Haider in Koroška. In these words, too, Dr. Zagozhen wanted to make it very clear that the establishment of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is in some way also an organised operation in the countryside, organised action for those people to whom the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is also intended. Also because of this in the Slovenian People's Party such a law that we believe the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia would not be terminated, we will not support it. However, as I have already said, we are ready as soon as the two laws that have been tabled come from the parliamentary procedure to join in amending the laws that will increase censorship, it is said that it will reduce the number of members of the Slovenian Agricultural Forestry Chamber on the one hand, and also simplify the elections themselves and also ensure greater participation in the elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u175	Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u176	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Greetings shall be given to the representatives of the Ministry as well as to the proposers. Colleagues and colleagues. Our thinking is that agriculture, a sector that is still very important in our country, should be spoken of several times in this Chamber. But it is particularly important for us who come from an area where agriculture is still a very important sector. Members of our parliamentary group join the Government's view that the proposal for a law is not suitable for further consideration. We estimate that the debate on this should be conducted within the membership of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia and from here draw the basis for longer-term solutions in this area. Something is very easy to stop, but it is very difficult to establish, of course, to establish. The proposer proposes the abolition of compulsory and voluntary membership and changes in the area of elections to the Parliamentary bodies. The proposal refers to Article 42 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the right to assembly and association. At the same time, the applicant overlooked, intentionally or unintentionally, that the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia had adopted the view that the chambers or other forms of association established by the law for the exercise of public powers or certain tasks in the public interest did not belong to associations protected by Article 42 of the Constitution of Slovenia. We agree with the Government's view that the existing regime implies that the Chamber is undoubtedly a representative body capable of representing different interests in agricultural and forestry activities. This Chamber also represents an important interlocutor to the State in the preparation of expert opinions in the procedures for the regulatory regulation of agricultural and forestry activities. We also meet representatives of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia at all important meetings within this house, and we see that they actively represent the interests of both large and small farmers. Compulsory membership is the basis for identifying and monitoring common interests, thus providing a basis for direct and appropriate action by the State. Without mandatory membership, our assessment would threaten to significantly reduce the number of members, while the Chamber would lose its representativeness, or an important role in the integration of fragmented Slovenian agriculture, which is so specific within the European Union. We also believe that a broader public debate and extensive analysis among members should be carried out in order to determine whether membership supports the existing organisation of the Slovenian Agricultural Forestry Chamber or not and then adopt any new solutions. As we say, we will not support the bill in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u178	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues! With the proposed amendments to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, it is trying to regulate and further enable and ensure the integration of a certain number of natural legal persons engaged in such or different types of agricultural, forestry or fishing activities in the Republic of Slovenia. By combining and integrating on a voluntary basis, which is fully in accordance with Article 42(2) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which speaks of the possibility of legally prescribed compulsory association membership as an interference with constitutionally guaranteed freedom of association. Regrettably, as in many other cases, not all the judges of the Constitutional Court are united here and interpret this constitutional right differently, some justify the association in the Chambers, I mean forced entry by law, as a permissible intervention in freedom of association, because it is, or should be, the exercise of the public powers of the Chamber in the public interest, which could in some way be accepted. All the Chambers, as institutions, can represent and represent different interests in individual economic and other activities and act indirectly as a link between the State and membership in the defence, pursuit of the interests of membership. All right, all right, all right. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we are convinced that the Chamber could carry out its mission, powers and tasks equally effectively, if not even more effectively, even in the case of voluntary membership. Not only in the case of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. The same applies to other comparable chambers, interest or professional associations. One of the justifications of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which advocates compulsory membership, is that compulsory membership is the basis for identifying and monitoring common interests and on this basis the ability to act in a timely, appropriate manner, which unfortunately constitutes a claim on the marketed soil, not only in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, but also in the view of many other thousands and thousands of agricultural, forestry and fishing operators. Nor does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia claim that without compulsory membership there is a risk of a significant reduction in the number of members and the loss of the role of the Chamber in the integration of Slovenian agriculture and the country. However, what is true is that it is possible to reduce the flow of the money of the compulsory membership chambers and consequently the financial difficulties for the costs and salaries, rather than the poor salaries of employees, in such and other comparable chambers. This is certainly not necessarily the case and probably will not happen if voluntary membership is enacted. It will, however, force and encourage the Chamber, its leadership and all its experts to work even more effectively and to advocate the interests of farmers and foresters. And if they are to carry out their task successfully and satisfactorily, they need not be afraid of the lack of membership and the flow of funds from voluntary membership fees, possible donations and sponsorships. Evidence of such claim and justification is a legal voluntary membership of companies within the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce which did not therefore fail. Those companies that are interested and feel the need for integration and integration and to be represented through a chamber in relation to the country have also demonstrated this by their voluntary membership and, of course, indirectly by financing such assistance and services. Similarly, it could apply to independent entrepreneurs, craftsmen in the Chamber of Commerce, where such a need is even more pronounced and in the Slovenian National Party we cannot possibly understand and accept the rejection of such proposals and requirements, which thousands of craftsmen have been hopelessly investing for some time and still encounter deaf ears of politics. Finally, there are two proposals for amendment of the law in question in terms of the abolition of compulsory membership in the Chamber. This is by policy, i.e. a group of Members, as well as by 5,000 voters, which certainly testifies to the need for action in this direction. There is certainly no convincing claim or rather an excuse from the government that such a status change would require a comprehensive amendment of the law or, in the case of the proposed amendment of the Commercial Law, that such a change of law could lead to a kind of confusion and open questions. While an optimistic statement by government representatives is that the government will fully examine the rules of the assembly system and will seek a systematic and comprehensive solution. While we welcome such goodwill in the Slovenian National Party, unfortunately we no longer believe in its realization, because we have been driven thirsty over water too many times. And if we are to find out and pour ourselves pure wine, it is not about any noble mission of the chamber, for any indispensable and essential services, but only for money. For the money and funding of such public services in part from the budget, which represents about €18 million per year in this agricultural and forestry chamber, the figures for 2010 and its total revenues amounted to about 30 million. This amounts to a good two million of the revenue from the collective contribution, which is a relatively low share of the revenue, i.e. about 10 %. So the matter is perfectly clear. The claim of the Government and the Chamber that compulsory membership is essential for the smooth implementation of the statutory tasks of such a public service is totally unfounded and misleading, deliberately misleading those Members who may not have looked in detail at the cash fow and balance sheet of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. And what is the essential and basic purpose of the proposed changes? This is the unloading of Slovenian farmers, who, as we all know, are in an extremely insurmountable position and would have any burden on them much, I think mainly on the majority of smaller farms, where each euro means something and will not in any way endanger the existence and comfortable seats of gentlemen in the Chamber. They will continue to have sufficient money, and if this is €27 million or €28 million, they will be able to continue to carry out their mission with care, especially in the interests of large farmers and large legal entities engaged in agricultural activities, not least now they are working well with such ones. At the same time, voluntary members are offered a unique opportunity and an opportunity to feel the need to be a member of the Chamber and to benefit from it, they will also be happy to contribute in the form of a membership fee. Those of us who come from the districts where the peasant population lives and works are well aware of the catastrophic financial and social situation of the Slovenian farmer. But I also understand the understanding and lack of such a sense in those from the larger urban centres, because it is also not really possible to understand the hopeless living atmosphere on smaller farms and in their families if you do not live among them or if you often do not go into that environment. Occasional trips to nature, to the countryside for fresh air or to a guest for picking mushrooms or herbs are far from possible to stimulate understanding and actual perception of all the pressures and impossibility of the Slovenian small farmer. It is certainly not my intention now to present the Slovenian National Party's position to address the pressing situation in Slovenian agriculture, which is proven to be deteriorating from year to year by the performance of the function of every new agricultural minister, by applying every time new measures, laws, regulations and so on. And when it comes to concrete relief and relief for a Slovenian farmer, it is as usual that those who live on the expense of a Slovenian farmer and base it on known Flosculs, such as "planned comprehensive system solutions" and so on. In short, in the Slovenian National Party we support the proposal of the amendment of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber Act, even though such a decommissioning represents only a stone in the entire mosaic of needs to help Slovenian farmers and agriculture as very important economic and professional activities. Of all colleagues and colleagues, we expect an honest understanding of what I have presented, and I very much ask you not to politicize this proposal, because otherwise you will not facilitate the existence and life of thousands of Slovenian peasant families. And thank you for understanding in this case.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u179	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. A representative of the government and a representative of the applicants may apply at any time by raising their hands, or we will go on schedule. Would you like to do it now? Mr. Sok, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u180	Dear Vice President, thank you very much for your words. Dear Members and Members, distinguished representatives of the Government. It is best that not only members of a New Slovenia party sign on behalf of citizens and citizens, but on behalf of the proposer, not only on some of the issues raised by the members of the Group as a proposal. So first of all, let me say that we have not seen that any of the members of the Group would openly oppose this and actually thank you for that. Somehow you've all shown an interest that something has to be changed in this direction, but in order to possibly do this in the future, at least that's how I understood the views of certain groups of Members. So, of course, I would like to say that there is not much time in this country in the economic field and if agriculture falls within the economic sphere of action, then of course there is no time to spare. And it is right that this opens the debate that we have tried and if we sometimes hear that there is little democracy in Slovenia, I can say that there is not too little in this segment, because it is difficult to expect that an extraparliamentary party can come to a debate in the highest decision-making body – in the National Assembly, which we have succeeded with the signatures of citizens and citizens relatively quickly and also to the leadership of the National Assembly, so thank you for allowing this debate, as well as those who have gathered signatures with the first-signed Mr Tank, to join the general debate. Now there's something about the positions themselves. As far as decisions of the Constitutional Court are concerned, of course, this is true. The Constitutional Court said that such a form was not contrary to Article 42 of the Constitution, but the Constitutional Court did not say anywhere that we should not arrange otherwise in Slovenia's assembly system. For if we had said so, we would not have changed our membership in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia in the previous term, we also corrected the threshold for compulsory membership in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. As you know, a survey was conducted at the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia, which showed that members want mandatory membership there and so on. If the matter were contrary to our constitution, then the Constitutional Court would decide as it did on the day, two more in the case of the congregation of Ankaran. It is said that this is not the case; we have pointed out that Article 42 of the Constitution states that we can freely decide to merge into different forms. And the basic domain on which this proposal for voluntary membership is based is: why would someone be forced to be a member of an organization if he does not want to be a member? Why would he be a member of someone you don't want to be? So this is some form of coercion, maybe we're not at this stage yet to figure it out, but that's definitely what's going to happen in the future. The survey made by the Slovenian People's Party among its members on New Year's Christmas holidays also shows that members of this "compulsory voluntary compulsion" do not want to do so. And so this matter, as one political party put it, was said to be political, of course the decision to set up a chamber was then political, but the political decision and politicisation were certainly not the same. And also subjugating this amendment to one political party is, of course, a claim that does not hold back, because we are not proposing any body with this novelty. With this amendment, we propose two amendments, a transition from compulsory membership to voluntary membership, gradually, because all members who are now required become voluntary members and then, on the basis of the application submitted, decide for themselves whether or not to remain members of the Chamber. I am sure and those who have tabled this proposal in New Slovenia, which we have been working on to make the chamber more effective with voluntary membership, to help its members draw up business plans, to fulfil the subsidy roles and so on, that it may have a slightly more friendly relationship with them, to do what members expect of it, and then it is not afraid that this Chamber will lose its representativeness, which has been mentioned by both government representatives and representatives of parliamentary groups, is, of course, even less the reason that this Chamber loses anything with this proposal in the field of its interlocutor to the State, in the professional and normative field as an interlocutor. It just doesn't hold. But there is another question that some of you have mentioned. Whether this Chamber is truly independent and independent of the State in such a way as to finance where most of the funds for its operation are derived from the State budget. We can discuss this and we can talk about it. Because somehow you're depending on who you're getting your money from. Many of you have also mentioned that there is too little talk in the National Assembly about agriculture, too little talk about these issues, but if we look at the statistics published by the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, the situation is worrying. And the Chamber, as a representative of farmers, as an associate of the government, should be much more involved in this area. See, from 2000 to this point, it is said that in 10 years in Slovenia, if I mention only a few agricultural industries, we have halved the pig farm, halved poultry farming, reduced the whole number of cattle, although in the agricultural development strategy Slovenia is defined as a cattle country because of the large grasslands we are overpowering, not to mention agriculture, where we do not reach 40% of our own needs. And, of course, as members of a political party that does not decide, but faces these problems, we can ask, what is the role of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia as an interlocutor on all these issues. Is this role, on a basis such as organised, satisfactory? I will not say here that it is not, but, of course, as a citizen, I can also ask myself this question in the fact that, let's say, at the annual level this year – we know how difficult it is – we intend to invest over EUR 400 million in agriculture and rural development in the agricultural sphere. And we're losing agricultural production in the process. And, of course, this, respected fellow Members and Members of Parliament, is the reason to ask ourselves what the role of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia as an advocate of the interests of farmers and an associate of the State, the Government, the National Assembly; what role has the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia played in this. We are convinced that if the Chamber should fight and work for its members, then this efficiency would certainly be greater. But if you get a certain amount of money a month or so per year, which is prescribed by law for you to get it, then this concern and this concern are much smaller. And that is the case, of course, was proved by the Slovenian Chamber of Commerce, where voluntary membership was introduced and where members express their interest quite differently than in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. I don't know if it was necessary to talk here about Adolf Hitler shutting down the chamber and Haider in Koroška. I do not think that we can talk differently and better, but I would tell you about two countries that have nothing to do with the system of these two countries or, if you want, with the regime of these two politicians. In Denmark, for example, they do not have a law on cooperatives or compulsory membership in an agricultural chamber, but Denmark has the largest cooperatives, not only in Europe, but throughout the world. They simply have written down in the constitution, as we do in article 42, so that people can freely and voluntarily unite and then write their own rules that they will respect. And then those rules are mandatory for them. The state only sees whether all the revenues they have paid to the state treasury are taxed. And another example: when I was still the chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food in the National Assembly, some of you were there, I remember for sure that Mr Janko Weber, we also hosted the Slovak Minister of Agriculture – Slovakia is somehow the most comparable – and he also referred to the organisation of the agricultural forestry chamber in Slovakia, and this is the domain that I used in the introduction. He says, "Membership in our chamber is voluntary because we are aware that we cannot force someone to be a member of an organization if he does not want to." Although we fixed the law in 2008, we raised the threshold for compulsory membership, but, honourable Members, today this means that it is still a mandatory member of every Slovenian, Slovenian, who has, say, half a hectare of slightly better field. Because the cadastral income per hectare is a little bit better in the country around 350 euros. Calculate whether or not the threshold is 80 [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u181	I'd like to ask Members of Parliament and Members to calm down a bit.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u182	I haven't been in Parliament in a while, but it still doesn't bother me. I'm talking to those who listen to this debate. It is said that it is still one who has half a hectare of agricultural areas, a mandatory member of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. And I understand these people who say why they should be a member, but if I do not benefit from this membership and repeat it again: as has been found in some of the positions of the parliamentary groups, this bill is an extremely soft approach, I would say that this is not a matter of sectioning, so that the House will in any way reduce its public powers to reduce what it does for the country. It's about getting into some form that's going to be as members. Of course, we are aware that the number of members will decrease slightly, that some who are dissatisfied will abandon these types, while at the same time the chamber will have to do much more to keep membership more or less. And the other dilemma proposed by this amendment of the law is: the elections at the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia are approaching. The 2008 elections, as I recall, were actually a real disaster. How will the current management of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia again justify the fact that the elections of members are not actually of interest. It is said that they don't care who leads them, who represents them, what policies do they actually do, because when we talk about the representativeness of a chamber with a number of members across the country, what is the representativeness of the number of those who visit and elect their representatives first at the level of administrative units, then at the level of the regions and at the level of the country? This election system is extremely complex, it is also extremely expensive and, of course, ineffective, and here, if not elsewhere, the current leadership of the chamber should imagine if participation is even less than 11%, how they will justify all that the state imposes on them and how much money is actually given to the functioning of the assembly system in our country. Once again, we have tried to open this debate, we have not imagined or imagined that you would applaud this proposal in the National Assembly. We are, however, helping coalition partners, who have also written in the coalition treaty to examine this issue and decide something. So, at least now is the possibility of a conversation to study this matter and that on the basis of a number of signatures who understood what the question is, because anyone can understand this: "are you for voluntary membership or for compulsory membership?".. Some referendum issues may sometimes not be fully understood by voters and voters, but anyone can understand that, on the basis of these comments by the members themselves, and on the basis of these signatures, you will try to make a move in this area. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u183	Thank you. Mr. President has the floor. Get Mr. Ziherl ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Therefore, it is certainly necessary to think about the organisation of this Chamber, not only in organising this Chamber, but also in any institution in the country, every so long it takes to think about how to proceed, so I agree, and the consideration is also needed in the chambers and in the chamber that we are considering. So, already in the previous term, as you recall and as has been mentioned several times, we have achieved by law on this same chamber that members are not all who have only a hobby, i.e. owners of extremely small areas. In the opinion of the parliamentary group presented by colleague Bogovic, we pointed out that not all those who did not benefit from the measures of the common agricultural policy or subsidies would be members, but rather a narrower part of the way they were elected to the assembly bodies. However, if I say in general, property is certainly not only a privilege or a benefit, it is primarily an obligation to be a burden, a responsibility. Slovenian agriculture has been called on in the long term to ensure as much self-sustainment as possible and to ensure that the landscape is regulated, but without adequate organisation and adequate conditions, of course there will be no such thing. In the last 15 or 20 years, the agricultural situation has deteriorated significantly. But you have to ask yourself, what would happen if there wasn't a room? Finally: I agree that a member must receive more from the Chamber than is paying for the contribution. This is indeed the task of management and the professional services of the Chamber, and I am sure of that. Finally: when representatives of the proposer are talking about the owner, for example, half a hectare of land, which has to pay for the chamber's contribution, there is nothing from this field, or any similar owner. We must, of course, stand up in the country and in the National Assembly for such a solution, so that such an owner, with appropriate incentives, sells or rents such real estate to the customer or tenant and, of course, the country as a whole in the area of greater self-sustainment in Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Ziherl has the floor. Mr Majhenič should be prepared and then Mr Anderlich or Mr Jurša. Here you go, Mr. Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u186	Thank you very much. As a long-standing member of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, I am aware of the increasingly difficult situation in Slovenian agriculture and, more worryingly, the continuing decline in the proportion of self-sustainment or lack of guidance that would be closer to the specificities of Slovenian farms, that is, farms that are on average 6 and a half hectares on average, are fragmented and therefore there is more opportunity for small animals, agriculture, berries and similar crops and less suitable for other European comparable activities, and in particular the promotion of secondary activities. In such a situation, the chamber is still essential. Now that the proposed law is without prejudice to its competence, it will be able to do everything it has done so far, and the only change is with respect to compulsory and voluntary membership. Then perhaps we could take this as an incentive. Its related Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia also moved from compulsory membership to voluntary membership and did not have much, probably internal reorganisation. Those who needed services before, of course, have them now, against payment, and perhaps some year he takes nothing, but pays nothing, pay twice next year because they have prepared something for him. And if this is as a stimulus for some change, for some need to reorganise, for new approaches, then certainly the proposal is welcome. I think the chamber has always been present in all these years, but I've missed some parts of the operation. In particular, it should be noted that unfair relations in the chain between the manufacturer and the consumer, where trade unduly takes up the left hand share, endangers the production and harvesting of the consumer. Another such segment, where more activity would be needed, is certainly a matter of quality. I have nowhere to see any worse revolution in research that we can read in the media when comparing how bad quality care we have with fruit and vegetables, how it is in sales, how the price drop in action is not proportional to the share of the product of the poorer quality and could still be listed. So, the chamber has a lot of work to do, and in some new context, it has the opportunity to turn out and live. And if she gets a good grip on work and finds herself in a new role, with new content, if she meets with farmers, this proposed change can almost go unnoticed. So, by analogy with the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, it would also suggest that we take the same action here.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr. Jurša has the floor. Get ready, Mrs. Jeraj. [[He's quitting.]] Then let Franz Bogovich be prepared. Mr. Jursha, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u188	Thank you so much for saying that. When we analyze the words'representation of the interests of individuals', it is very difficult to tell whether in some activities such as specific agricultural activities in Slovenia, we can divide a chamber in which membership would be voluntary to represent the interests of those who are members of this Chamber and others who would not be members of this Chamber would not be represented. This matter needs to be thoroughly analysed. Slovenian agriculture, as I said before, is specific and we must also deal with it in this way, is very fragmented. And of course, all those young people who may be dealing with agriculture as a complementary activity do not have so much interest in representing them as those who have more ownership and have more income from agriculture. But how do we separate these interests now? I think that this needs to be discussed thoroughly, not only in Parliament, but also within the Chamber. We like to compare the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia with the Chamber of Agriculture. It's very difficult. It's not comparable. Within the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia are economic operators that generate substantially higher incomes, excepting, of course, legal persons in the field of agriculture – sixteen companies rented from the country, from the Fund of Agricultural Lands and Forests, half of all agricultural land. On the other hand, we have 160,000 farmers who have only once more agricultural land for rent. This is said to be not the same as these, and the less likely to have less interests than those that are slightly greater and, of course, this must be coordinated in some way. There was a lot of talk about elections within the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. Elections are really a devastating issue and we should all think together and we should change some things in this area, as only 10% of membership comes to these elections. And I think that this must mainly run the management of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, its every-time leadership. It would probably be in this area to change and write these things within the statute of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. When a person analyzes – all that the chamber has prepared in its notebook – then stabs in the eyes – I hope that these are accurate data – that they talk about savings in the field of Slovenian agriculture and say that they have saved up to 73 million euros in one year. This does not mean that it advocates the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia in the form it is, but still breeds reflection, whether this Chamber does not represent the interests of farmers. Another issue raised by the proposer: the friendly attitude of the Chamber towards membership. It would probably be a nicer relationship if it were on a professional basis, it would be voluntary membership, because it's professional now, too, but people are different. In this Chamber there are different structures and the management of the Chamber must ensure that this attitude towards membership at a high professional level is no less than that of voluntary membership. Personally, I do not support the proposal, but this does not mean that in the future we would not speak more thoroughly about it than we are at today's meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Bogovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u190	Hello again. In the predecessor of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia in the Agricultural and Acceleration Service, I myself worked from 1984 to 1989, and I can say that I know the situation in the area of agriculture at that time and what it is today. And I myself am very actively following this area of agriculture, agriculture and the basic difference that has been taking place over these decades, is that in the Slovenian space the structure of agriculture is gradually changing in this direction, that a large number of small farms as well as medium-sized farms, which are slowly losing their means of doing business, that these farms are slowly abandoning their activities, and that we are indeed facing the trend of reducing farms in Slovenia. When you try to find out where one job is on the farm, you will quickly find that most Slovenian farms are so small, due to the history we have behind us, that it is very difficult to provide this job on the average Slovenian farm today. On the other hand, as Mr Jurš has already mentioned before me, we also have larger farms, which are mostly tenants of the state land through the agricultural land fund, as well as these medium-sized and very small farms. And all of these groups, which are very different in their interests, and sometimes even with the ability to influence decisions that are important to them, all of them need an advocate, and I myself estimate that the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is the one that in some ways is the web of all these different owners and holders of agricultural holdings and as such a very legitimate representative who can speak responsibly to authorities such as the Ministry, such as the various other authorities in the Ministry, also influences the situation and the attitude towards agriculture in Parliament and elsewhere. I am convinced that the situation in Slovenian agriculture is better today because in the past the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia has been established and I share the opinion of all those who are aware that the situation is serious and that trends are such that there will be a lot of work to be done in the future in this area, so that it will be better for farmers and for agriculture. If farms, those who make an average contribution of around 20 euros a year for this contribution, are exempt from this "tax", if I may say so, or a mandatory assembly contribution, probably 20 euros means a lot, but this is not necessarily important for the family budget of farms that have many problems with the economy, but we support this position in the Slovenian People's Party ourselves, so that the number of compulsory membership falls from the current 113, 115 thousand, as is the case with the current legislation, somewhere between 65 and 70 thousand members. These are the members who, on the other hand, are also active farmers and receive certain funds under this heading through agricultural policy measures. I myself participated in this mandate as Chairman of the Committee on Agriculture, Agriculture and Food, practically in all these negotiations that have taken place, and I can peacefully say that the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is in these arrangements, very competent interlocutor talks and that it is often not heard from outside, that it does not see what is done to ensure that the situation in agriculture does not worsen even more than otherwise. Much has been done in income legislation, in the case of cadastral income legislation, in the Agricultural Lands Act, the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia was active when the tax exemption increased from 50 % to 70 %, it also played an active role in the adoption of the Agricultural and Food Products Promotion Act, in the agricultural strategy and so on. So at first glance, really, this could also be a nice move and I am sure that unfortunately most farms also do not know the details of what the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is doing, because they are doing their work and in the long run I am sure that the cancellation would be worse for the farmer. In all this work, and also in order to be open to this debate, and also to be open to the next one talking about the agricultural situation, I am happy that this year we have really talked a lot about agriculture. I think that the attitude and attitude towards agriculture have changed in the Slovenian space to this effect that we are all increasingly aware of what the decline in self-care in agriculture means, what the relation to agricultural land also means, and certainly with the work in Parliament and in all other services from the Ministry to the Chamber in this area this movement between Slovenians and Slovenians has taken place, and we will certainly all have to turn our heads together, find out what needs to be done also in changing and working the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, especially in the agricultural policy itself, in the development policy of the country to ensure that farmers can also survive from their work and earn a decent profit for their work. I am convinced that, while the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is doing these works of quality today, with which farmers, after all, are also recipients of agricultural policy measures, that on the other hand we still have a lot of work to do in the field of agricultural marketing organisation and I think that more activities should be carried out in this part of the Chamber, in this part we also see opportunities for improvement and hope that they will also happen in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u191	Thank you. Mr. Sok, on behalf of the motioners, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u192	As the president of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food has now spoken, which has listed what has been done in the field of agriculture - we agree. A lot of things have changed, but let's look at the results! The results are that agricultural production is falling, that we have less and less self-sustainment. I find it difficult to agree with the definition of what is small and what is a large farm, because there is also no definition in the Slovenian diverse space. What is much in Primorska is very small in Prekmurje. I also find it difficult to agree that nothing is done to get the land of the fund into the hands of farmers. As you said, the country is still governed by these large agricultural land, I don't know if they're combinations or what they are. With us, in our area is on these surfaces, I can honestly tell you, mainly the sown oil cucumber. How much does an oil cucumber contribute to the diet balance of the Republic of Slovenia? You talked about it. I told you earlier how the pigs have been reduced in 10 years, how poultry production has been reduced, so that agriculture does not increase. Mr President of the Committee, I have been with you, for five years we have not been able to regulate the irrigation system. How are we supposed to go greening without irrigation? What did the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia do in the interest of its members? I didn't feel like anything was moving. Because, what should I do? The Agriculture Act and the Construction Act should be harmonised in order not to require irrigation systems of the building permit. But if you have to have a construction permit, you need five years of work. But, Minister, I'm sorry that he's not here today, I'm not going to say anything, but I'm just going to say something: because I also heard confirmation last night when I was watching TV in the Odessa, it's not a problem what's happening in Slovenia, that we built the agricultural land with roads and industrial zones and thereby reduced the resources for food production, that's not a problem. In Slovenia, there is a problem of cultivation. At least in our area there is a problem of cultivation – because of the demographic picture we have, we do not have the workforce. We can also discuss how we're going to exploit our forests, how we're going to cut more wood in our forests, but who's going to do it? These farmers who are on average old, sometimes we said they're on average 55 years old, now a little bit more, will they do it to you? They can't. What about the young labor force leaving the countryside to the cities and not returning? Why are we building so many homes today for the elderly in northeastern Slovenia, where is the most agricultural area? To support our old people there, because young people have left because farms, in fact, because I say, I started with what is big and what is small the farms that are still in our area, which is particularly sad, and many have no chance of surviving. [[...]] Today they are dominated by men 40-45 years old who are not married and have no children. I don't know if that's the case with you, but I see it where I come from. So, there's some perspective on the longer term. I agree with Mr. Interceptor. A thorough consideration is needed, yes, but also a decision. One more time. If we think too long about all these problems that weigh us down, there will be nothing left to think about, for this train will pass by and pass us by more and more. We need to think about it. There's more to be done for the members of the Chamber. If we say today that the chamber deserves, eight million is mentioned there, with their work. Yeah, who does he deserve it from? Yeah, just like the farmer, because who's paying for the services? I don't pay them because I'm not a farmer, so farmers pay. This is the income farmers have to pay to the chamber. It is not the problem of the EUR 20 on average that you mentioned that they have to pay. It's not a problem for a dozen Euros. Once again, the problem is that these little ones, who have no use, say, why would a member be there if I had no use. But the big ones make the decisions, and they have to be members, because otherwise they can't prosper. In this direction, whatever the decision today is, some reflection will have to be made in the future. Once again, with all due respect – I also welcome Mr Smurf on the balcony – we are aware that the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia must exist and will exist, but with voluntary membership it will become more effective, it will become agile and it will better represent the interests of its members across from the country than at this moment, I am sure because it will have to, because the situation will force it, because without this it will not work. This proposal introduces sequentiality, does not abolish the chamber - it does not hold and I have to deny it again. It introduces graduality, it is said, mandatory members become voluntary and then have time to decide whether to keep it or to apply for an exemption. All public powers conferred by the State on the Chamber shall remain. So it's a basic principle. I repeat, why make someone be a member of an organization if they don't want to? So this will need to be considered, as well as the way in which the elections are held, as Mr Jurša said. However, if the House wants to change the way elections are to be conducted, then the National Assembly must change the law. He said to write it in the statute - yes, then today must vote in favour, and then the statute will regulate the electoral system – of course the chamber itself will not regulate it New Slovenia, that is clear. So, with the law, it's only a chance that this will be regulated by the statute and that the electoral system will be simplified, that the apparatus will be reduced and then, believe me, more people will come to the elections.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u193	Thank you. We have concluded the debate of the Members and Members on the list and they wanted to discuss it. However, since the time set for discussion has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss it under Rule 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. The applicant may also apply if he so wishes. I can see the hands, so I'm opening applications. Mr. Bogowicz, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u194	I fully agree with the proposaler on the problems in agriculture. And the current and former president of the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food is sure to know these problems. As you mentioned, you are not a farmer yourself, but I am a farmer, I am engaged in agricultural activities in the field of cultivation, as well as cattle. I also come from a farm family in which three generations at home work on agriculture and live on agriculture. I am a founding member of the farm cooperative, which was established in 1992 and was established in accordance with all the principles of the cooperative as it must be, and there are still 64 members involved in the production of milk and beef. I am also the mayor of the municipality of Krško, in which agriculture is an important issue, and you can believe that I know quite well the situation in agriculture. Once again, I agree with all the problems you have mentioned, but we have a different view here that these problems will not really solve whether they will be voluntary members in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, or whether they will be mandatory members, and these problems need to be solved more broadly in society, with regard to agriculture, including by placing agriculture in the place where it belongs, as well as with agricultural policy measures, with the active work of farmers and their representatives. Certainly, the first one to be called is representative, the country has given her this mission by law and is doing it in a good way, just as it does in Austria, as it does elsewhere. It is harder to compare with those countries where large agricultural holdings are and are themselves professional farms such as Denmark, as well as Slovakia with this post-socialist system. In such a fragmented structure as we have in Slovenia, as we have already mentioned, and from very large properties to small farmers, they all need their advocate. And I think that's where things can be arranged. But when you asked me direct questions about irrigation, comas and that, I mentioned that I was the mayor of the municipality. During this time, in the municipality of Krško, there are comassations on 800 hectares of land and a new irrigation system is being built, which will complement the present one hundred ten hectares with 200 hectares. However, I agree with you: we have impossible procedures in this country, the Ministry of Environment and Space and all co-legislators – as much as these complications in this area, one cannot understand them. I myself have tried as a Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food to invite the Ministry of Agriculture and the Ministry of the Environment and Space in South Tyrol to see how things are going there. So I agree in this work, there is a lot of need to make these sets and put them in a different position in agriculture. The only difference between us is whether voluntary or compulsory membership solves this or not. We'll have to save a lot of other things first. From that part, which is also this representativeness assessment and how much membership will remain in the event of voluntary membership. Believe it and now, as I mentioned at the outset, I am a farmer - I will also speak against my apartment in this work: it is very difficult for people to decide on this cooperation because of the history they have behind them and it is the history of when they said after the war that they were killing people together in cooperatives when they were doing political cooperatives along the municipal borders. Where stories are different today, this membership is easier to obtain. This experience will make it very difficult for older people, who are still largely farm owners today, to change their minds. Therefore, I think that membership in the event of voluntary membership would really fall to such a small number that the state would have serious doubts as to whether it is those who have the right to play a representative role and represent all Slovenian agriculture. And here's this dilemma where I think that eventually these powers and also the property of institutions to manage those, if I quote Dr. Zaghažna again, who simply don't understand the farmer's language anymore and are bureaucratically, away from farmers, deciding and working. And so I think that we should find another solution, this is an increase in censorship, and indeed there among the sixty-seven thousand members is at this point in my mind the reality that actually mandatory membership is still to be maintained.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr. Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u196	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. When I decided to turn myself in now in this debate, it was when Mr Sok mentioned that young people were fleeing from farms. Yes, it is normal, since on one small farm every social support is already greater than hard and hard work on the farm. I come from a farm, from a small farm, I inherited a farm by my parents, and I have to say that the moment I inherited it, we closed the production. My father and my mother spent many years with a piggy, it was possible to live, it was good to live, we made progress, we invested in walls, today we have lots of walls, lots of roofs, I have to keep them from other incomes, not from those that I could have on the farm. Here we have to ask ourselves why we have come into such a state, how to help people. And if we are now talking about compulsory or optional membership in the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, my colleagues in Lithuania say that this cost paid for membership can be used very quickly, it is only necessary to open the door, find help and at least everyone needs assistance in the agricultural activity and this cost has already been reimbursed. Secondly, even if this part is contributed, we can also take this as solidarity. As a solid contribution to the fact that our experts can, in addition to what the state offers them to operate, make it easier to operate and work at these institutions. That's how I see it. And one more thing I would like to say is that there are still some farms in our area, we were lucky to get a farmer who was prepared for this acre, a little less than two hectares that we have, to continue working on. But when he doesn't want it anymore, we're going to have to invest in showing respect for our ancestors, so that it doesn't go into "leaving away," we say. So at least the grass isn't healed yet. And also here I agree, indeed, the biggest problem I think is that today it's just that it's leaving, it's healing, and when I've been driving through these environments a few years ago, I can tell you that all the lawns have been cut down, today there's not many of them, like at Kolpa. When I was walking as a rafter at Kolpo, when I watched these meadows, how it was all healed, how it was not cut, it was already happening around Ljubljana, and here I have to ask myself how to help people, motivate them to stay on the farm and work. And we have to put into our heads the fact that our rurals are our agricultural land, our garden, our yard, like this yard at home in front of my house, which is also just a cost, it is not what I should have brought to me, but I am regulating it, and the whole Slovenian public will have to take this into consideration, adopt such thinking, because I have often listened to how much we put into agriculture, and that we have nothing to do with it if we put it into the economy to make it better, and it would not be much more controversial. That's all I wanted to say today in this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Sok, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u198	I would like to end by thanking everyone who has participated in this debate. I think that some continuation is not the beginning, but the continuation is that we will, all of you in turn, have to think about it and actually also approach people, citizens and citizens who obviously expect some solutions, because if we don't, we wouldn't give these more than 5,500 almost 6,000 signatures. Once again, I say that the proposal of this novel, tabled by New Slovenia, does not foresee the abolition of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, we do not wish to do so, because we know what role this Chamber has played, but we are convinced that a different approach to membership would make it even bigger. Even if we compare and talk about the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, we compare only this, its mode of action, without anyone realizing that these two chambers are comparable, because there might be such a contribution that all members here pay, so Lek could pay for it in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, and that would not be a big deal for him. But there, too, members resist paying because they demand results, but if they do, then they will remain members. The biggest problem of this chamber in the past is that the management has become estranged and has gone to some payments and consumption across borders, not to say this now for the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, but for the assembly system as a whole, so these debates have probably also occurred in Slovenia and people's opinion on this. As I have already said, we are pleased with this debate, I see that most of the groups in this group support us in some way, you say: we will think about it a little longer, but also by the government, it has been said that they will do a survey. I hope so, one survey already exists, so the attitude of the members is well known. The world won't collapse unless you confirm it today. However, I would just like to say this for the end because Mr Bogovič has previously listed some of the issues he is dealing with and said that he is also facing these problems, certainly, I am not a member of the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia, I am a beekeeper with 30 to 40 women, or more, if any beekeeper, he knows what this means, but I am happy to be a member of the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia, where the contribution is much greater than 20 euros. So that I can also see that the Beekeeping Union of Slovenia advocates in some way the position of its members when it makes its arguments, this does not mean that I agree with all their arguments, but when they come up against the country and, I would say, other users of the space and so on. So this is not a problem and there is a number of members, although beekeepers are getting older, the number of members is not falling, but not on a compulsory basis, but on a voluntary basis, it is said that whoever wants is not a member, he is not a member, but it works in some way, and like every Styrian I have some experience with the vineyard myself, so that as far as we are concerned in this room all of us are seeing how the image of this country changes and it will probably be – let me just say it to the end – do what we can hear here in the Assembly of Luxembourg's agricultural minister. One of the professors of mathematics was then a farm minister and he said to me, "We have farmers counted. There are 2100, each receiving so much and so much money from the state, so it processes such and such a surface and performs municipal services for the country in a particular area and therefore we have a municipalised state. We have a state of municipal order." They're keeping the roads up, they're mowing. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Communicating ditches and stuff. [[...]] Slovenia, as a small country, will probably have to take a similar path if we want to survive in this area. Thank you so much for listening to us. Have a nice day.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u199	Thank you. This concludes the debate. On the proposal to decide that the bill is suitable for further consideration, we will decide today, in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, at 18.35. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 29th meeting of the Assembly, which we will continue by vote in half an hour, which is at 6.35 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u200	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members. Ladies and gentlemen. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue the 12th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Bill of Development Support for the White Krajina in the period 2013 - 2016 in the framework of the regular procedure We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on development support to the White Krajini in the period 2013 - 2016 is suitable for further consideration. An explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u201	Thank you very much. White landscape is certainly one of those areas in Slovenia, which is now particularly affected by the economic crisis and many companies have already collapsed. The relocation of one of the largest companies is forecast and thus an additional loss of almost 1000 jobs. This is due to the economic downturn of this area even more than ever. And despite the fact that the Law on the Promotion of Harmonised Regional Development, which, while with some minimal means, is now providing some response to this situation, we in the Slovenian Democratic Party feel that this is not enough, so we have prepared and proposed this law, which immediately solves this problem in a way that provides funds of EUR 619 million and will also provide the other conditions necessary for the development and recovery of this area. In particular, funds are provided here to build a road infrastructure of more than €500 million. This is where funds are provided for the construction of energy infrastructure. Of course, there are also funds for the development of economic centres. The law also provides that all investors wishing and intending to invest in the White Country shall be provided with tax reliefs for the funds invested. Similarly, all those employers who will employ people in this area will be allowed by the State to pay contributions and other duties. We are confident that this law can now mean a quicker recovery of this area and we expect that the coalition will also support it, because, by not supporting this law, we will continue to witness the collapse of South-Eastern Slovenia and, of course, of the White Land, so I call and ask for the support of the Belarusian people to support this law, and that in this way we will allow this law, which is now envisaged to enter into force in 2013, to be recast by the amendment, so that it can enter into force even in January 2012. Everything depends only on will and also on the interests of Members of the National Assembly. As I mentioned, the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u202	So we're voting. Excuse me. Breakup. Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members? Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? I guess not. An explanation for the vote on behalf of Renata Brunskole, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u203	Thank you very much. Nicely greeted! I will support the White Country Development Support Act. As the only Member of Belarus, I estimate that, regardless of the mandate of any government, the hearing has been shown only to the extent that visits have taken place and that there have been few specific cases in this mandate, whether we see it or not. The Pokolpje programme has been adopted; for the third development axis, the projects are in preparation and I am confident that by adopting this law we will make a commitment to the next mandate of a new or the same government, and I will therefore support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote in its name mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u205	Your Honor! I will certainly support this law because it is in the development interest of both the White Country and the whole country of Slovenia. By adopting this law, we are only establishing a realistic framework for the development of the necessary economic infrastructure that the White Country needs so much for its life, on the one hand, a quality road connection and, on the other hand, a good distance, as well as the possibilities for an appropriate human resources and other policy, which covers all of this law. This is the only way to create the possibility that this place, this part of Slovenia, develops all its development potentials and thus contributes to the community, to develop small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and thus to enable greater quality of life for people living there, to maintain the best staff in their territory, not to go just to New Town or even further across Slovenia, and to give Slovenia back what it can give it by collecting taxes. Now he just doesn't have that option. And because it is in the development interest not only of the White Land, but of the whole country of Slovenia, it is worth supporting. But all those you reject and point out to the so-called Systemic Law, I point out that these two laws are compatible, that they are only about upgrading and clarifying solutions. For this reason, I call on you, on behalf of all those who wish to develop small and medium-sized entrepreneurship there, who want to develop the whole community, who want to contribute to the development of the whole country of Slovenia, to support this law as well.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u206	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 35 votes against 34. [[The vote was 35.]] [[Against 34.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for consideration. Thank you very much. I thank you for clapping, I don't need to applaud the announcement of the results. I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly and that the proposal for a law will therefore be allocated for consideration by the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development as a parent working body. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the first consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag, the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the coat of arms, flag and anthem of the Republic of Slovenia and on the Slovenian National flag is suitable for further consideration. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u207	In the SDS Group, we followed the idea and the official proposal, often in writing, and at various events, the distinguished advocate for the rights of Slovenians and Slovenes, the writer Boris Pahor. He pointed out the weakness that the currently envisaged form of performing the anthem does not allow all those elements, it does not have all those elements, and it does not, in particular, follow all the values that the great Slovenian poet France Prešeren wanted to present, and therefore is not comparable to the anthems of neighbouring countries, as well as other democratic countries elsewhere in the world. The crisis in Slovenia, this is clearly demonstrated by today's debate, the crisis in Slovenia, ladies and gentlemen, is also due to the current crisis of values. And this story is mostly about values. When it comes only to internationalism, such behaviour, such a policy based on such values, of course, easily pushes money abroad, much harder, much harder than finding money for home. However, it is a matter of putting first the value of our country, the value of patriotism, which, at least by word of mouth, should be ruled by the broadest social consensus; that the value of patriotism is important, is thus pointed out by all the previous presidents of the country of Slovenia, all political parties, and that is also agreed by civil society organisations. And, as I say, in this case, it's mostly about values. However, I would like to point out something else: in the current form, there is clearly a contradiction between the legal determination of the anthem, which defines as an anthem only Article 7, and the constitutional regulation of the anthem, which is unequivocal. I quote: the anthem of Slovenia is Zdravjica, so says Article 6 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Some of you misunderstood then that the following paragraph, which says, "the use of an anthem is governed by the law", allows one part to be released. That this is a mistake, let me show you with a case. Look, there's a Slovenian flag. The Constitution defines it as a combination of white, blue and red paint and coat of arms. And now imagine that the law would stipulate that all the other elements should be released and that only white color remains. Whose symbol is the white color, the white flag, we probably all know. That's what we'll get if [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] Let go of the key content that is regulated in the Constitution and therefore the Constitution must be respected as a whole. [[...]] And in order to bring the law into line with the Constitution, the proposed law must be adopted today [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u208	Thank you very much, mag. Grimes. An explanation of the voice, another group wants to explain its voice? I guess not. In your own name, France Tsukati, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u209	Thank you for your word. Well, the law says that our anthem is the seventh whale, that's the famous whale: let all the nations that long for the day live. We are proud of it, it is similar to the European anthem by content, the Slovenian breadth of respect and readiness to accept all nations, all neighbours, but the Slovenian academic, the great Slovenian market writer Borut Pahor warned us that there is something important missing from our anthem. What is lacking is that all other anthems, which do not have such a breadth of relations with other nations, but which have a markedly important attitude, have a domestic attitude toward their own country. And so Mr. Pahor proposes, and on the basis of his proposal, that we add to this extremely short hymn another guitar, which reads: "God our land, God lives all the Slovenian world! "Brother all we are, sons of the glorious mother." Now that it's a national holiday, you'll see how few flags will hang on the houses, we're ashamed of her, we're ashamed of other symbols. Why should the National Assembly, this Parliament, be ashamed of our homelands, of the references of the country and of the "brothers of all who are us, the sons of the glorious mother"? I think we must be the ones who show that we are not ashamed, that we are Slovenians and that we are proud of it, for in the anthem comes the expression of what the nation should feel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u210	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 40. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the National Assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the bill has therefore been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 17th item of the agenda, with the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 43. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 43.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Foreigners under the ordinary procedure. On Monday, 13 June 2011, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a bill-maker, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading, but I give the floor to the representative of the Government in relation to coordination. The word has magic. Damjan Lah, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members! The second reading of the law and the second reading of the amendments which were tabled at the time of consideration of the law in the second reading led to a false reference to certain articles in the individual paragraphs, i.e. the second reading adopted an amendment which deleted the first paragraph of Article 62 of the Law, which led to a misrepresentation in Articles 64, 67 and 69 of the Law, so that the Government prepared the harmonisation amendments to the proposal for the law on aliens, namely the harmonisation amendment to Article 64, Article 67 and Article 69, where the content of any of those articles is not altered, is only a nomological correction of the reference to the individual paragraphs of these articles in conjunction with the amended Article 62 of the Law. Therefore, the Government proposes that these harmonisation amendments be adopted and then, of course, the law as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-06-15-SDZ5-Redna-29.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Therefore, since the proposal for a law on second reading amendments is inconsistent, the Government has drafted an amendment, as you have heard, you have received an amendment on the bench. Representative of the Government, I think the amendment has already been explained, so I ask if they want the word of a Member and Members. I take it they don't want to, so we're moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present. 44 votes against 5. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the 5.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present. The vote was 42 to 25. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 25.]] I note that the law has been adopted and thus I conclude this item on the agenda. We continue with the end of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Slovenian Press Agency under the regular procedure. On Monday, 13 June 2011, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a bill-maker, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or the National Assembly, the proposal for a law would not be harmonised. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 25. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the 29th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed tomorrow at 9 a.m. I'm asking for your attention because I have two announcements. Colleagues and colleagues, 15 minutes after the meeting of the National Assembly, will meet the Economic Committee in the so-called quiet room. An hour and a half after the meeting of the National Assembly, a tripartite meeting of the Committee on the Economy, the Committee on Transport and the Committee on Finance in the Grand Salon will begin. Thank you for your attention.
