ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly, and I wish everyone a good morning. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Mrs Janja Klasinc, Mrs Silva Črnugelj, Dr Vinko Gorenak, Mr Silven Majhenič from 2 p.m. to 2 p.m., Mr Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti until 8 p.m., Dr László Göncz and Mr Tadej Slapnik from 3 p.m. Good-bye to all of you again! We're moving to 8. At the end of the day, this is a third-party proposal for a law on amendments to the Act on Economic Companies within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of five Members, with a first-signed mag. Merry Christmas. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the proposal of the Magi Act. Happy Zerjava.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u2	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Good morning, everyone! In the last month since the adoption of this law in the second reading in the National Assembly, we have witnessed constant pressure both on the media and on the public concerned, namely that the law is negligent, that it is unconstitutional, that it is harmful to entrepreneurship, and any other obvious evidence could be found. For a month we have been facing criticism from the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia, the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, the Ministry of Economy, the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, if our proposal to amend the Law on Economic Companies is unconstitutional. And what do we intend to do in view of the general belief that the proposal is inadequate? From this place, as the first-signed proposer, I publicly answer such or similar questions. Whether the content of a law is unconstitutional or not, in the Republic of Slovenia can only decide, I stress, the only Constitutional Court. All those who think it is unconstitutional have the right to express their views and ultimately to demand an assessment of the constitutionality of this law in the appropriate place. It is not surprising, however, that the Association of Supervisors of Slovenia and the Association of Managers are the main critics, as we are interfering with the field that allows their members to fish in the mud. During the three years of this mandate, no one could come on a day or a single proposal on how to deal with this pressing issue. In the Slovenian People's Party, any proposal effectively addressing this problem would be supported. I ask the relevant criticisms of this proposal: what did you do when there were cases of clear abuses of entrepreneurship and the freedom of economic initiative in the public? Have you acted against your members? Have you ever fallen in love with an ashtray? Have you proposed any positive changes to the legislation? Have you excluded anyone from your associations? Do you think that everything was perfectly right on the part of your members, in accordance with the laws or in accordance with the responsible management of companies? Nobody has done anything, nor has the interested professional public or its Czech associations, nor has the Government or the relevant ministry. The same as in the law on the seizure of illegally acquired property, when Members actually proposed the law and made up its contents, but not those who were actually called upon to do so, that is, employees of ministries who would be obliged and responsible to do so with their officials. We all find in one voice that everything is wrong and that, as it is, it cannot be that regulation allows and in the absence of sanctions encourages the abuse of a free enterprise initiative. That's probably clear to everyone. And when there is no action when those who should protect the integrity and name of their associations do not act, let us address the problem by ourselves, because we cannot simply sit in irresponsible positions and monitor how things turn in the wrong direction. And in this case, everything is wrong again. Apparently, some would like to solve the problem in such a way that it would not be solved. The conviction of those from whom the law will require responsibility for their conduct is clear. However, if we are talking about the general conviction of people who are directly or indirectly suffering from the consequences of the irresponsible behaviour of over-responsible entrepreneurs, this is probably different. Therefore, I firmly believe that malicious free entrepreneurs must be stopped and prevented. However, all other well-intentioned, honest and those who do what is right must have a healthy and fair business environment. A brief, clear and concise message from our proponents, and that is exactly what this law is. We want to differentiate those malicious from well-intentioned entrepreneurs. And that's all.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. In the name of the government, the Magus will speak. Janko Burgar, State Secretary, Ministry of the Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u4	Thank you, Mr. President. Good morning, Madam Members, Madam Members! The Government's position has been presented several times in the course of the hearing, and I would simply reiterate that we understand in any way the purpose of supplementing the Law on Economic Companies, but the way in which it wants to regulate and prevent those who are harmful, maliciously exercising or exploiting the constitutional right of a free enterprise initiative is regulated in a very restrictive way, which will also severely restrict a fair enterprise initiative which is a constitutional right and which in some way criminalises incompetence, ignorance, incompetence or entrepreneurs who, due to different economic or financial circumstances, have also used the instrument of bankruptcy, forced settlement as an extreme option. This is precisely why the proposal for a law is such that it cannot be supported by the Government. We would also suggest, as we have already proposed to the Ministry of Justice, that the Judicial Register Act should be amended in such a way that the statements to be made by the founders or new members of the company at the time of entry into the register of justice will be checked on an official basis. Finally, the existing legislation allows a number of institutions to sanction abuses or unfair conduct by members of the authorities of the management or control of founders or shareholders. From this title, we simply stress that the aim of the proposal is certainly well-intentioned and not the best way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Ms Breda Pečan has the floor to present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u6	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greeting to the representatives of the Ministry of Economy, colleague and colleagues! The Act on the Complementation of the Law on Economic Companies, according to the majority of Members of the Group of Members of the Parliament of the Social Democrats, is necessary and necessary and, therefore, we have supported it since the introduction of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law. The basic objective of the law is to prevent the establishment, management and supervision of companies by persons who have in the past participated in the management or control of a company over which insolvency or forced termination proceedings have been initiated. However, the court may allow members of the management or control body to exercise the management function of the company or the supervisory function of the company if it proves that in a company over which insolvency or forced termination proceedings have been initiated, it has acted with due diligence by a conscientious and fair economic operator. Such a solution in the amendments to the law is acceptable for most of the members of the Social Democrats' Group, because it is necessary to prevent the establishment of a society for those who have deliberately acquired societies. It is unacceptable for business owners and directors to set up businesses one after the other and for those companies to stay on the road and without the wages they owe them. This practice of entrepreneurship in Slovenia is unacceptable and most members of our parliamentary group also support the solutions of this law on companies. We support the solution that it cannot be the founder of a company or the acquisition of the status of a member of a company: a person who has been legally convicted of a criminal offence against the economy, against the employment relationship and social security; against whom, by virtue of a legal judgment, liability has been established on the basis of a violation of the legal personality; which, on the basis of a law governing the Registry, has submitted a proposal for registration in the Register of Untrue Declaration that all the capital companies in whose capital is involved with more than 25 % have settled all the taxes and other compulsory charges which have expired on them, except for those to whom a period of deferral or payment has been permitted, in accordance with the law governing the tax procedure; which, as a member of a company, was against the management or the supervisory authority of a capital company for which it has been subject to a legal system governed by the rule of law, which has been governed by the rule of conduct of conduct or by the rule of law. In the Group of Members, we understand the concerns of those who feel that this law restricts the entrepreneurial initiative, but it is necessary to ask whether it is permissible to set up a company for everyone, regardless of their previous activities, which led to the collapse of the company. With the amendments to this Company Act, we allow the establishment of companies, but only responsible owners, directors and responsible supervisors of companies who can prove that they have acted with due diligence by a conscientious and fair economic operator. For all of this and because the Social Democrats support a responsible entrepreneurial initiative, most members of the Social Democrats Group will be supported by the Act on Complements of the Economic Companies Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present his position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u8	Your Honor! In the views of the Group of Members, there is nothing new about this proposal. We repeat, therefore, that the proposed amendments to the Company Act have unfortunately had relatively easy work to do in assessing the situation offered by the National Assembly. The occurrence and densification of what they describe as ethically controversial procedures is evident. It is not possible to overlook forced settlements and bankruptcys, transfers of property and activities in questionable and disputed circumstances, and it is not possible to ignore workers without salaries, dismissals, damages, reimbursements, and the accountable and unpaid social security contributions. It is therefore a legal and social state. A number of concerns were raised in the Committee's debate that the proposed supplement was pre-orbitant, so as not to restrict the freedom of the entrepreneurial initiative of honest entrepreneurs. That's what I was quoting. We really didn't recognize such a purpose in the Group. Your Honor! If the institution doesn't work, get them out of the way. So much for the way I'm supposed to be inappropriate. We have highlighted in particular the fact that the proposal is not complete, but that we cannot deny it the purpose and the attempt to verify and assess the possibility of changes for an open, competitive, responsible economy with a reputation. We also think that the proposal has largely avoided what has been estimated to be an over-extreme intervention. In order to satisfy these comments and options, we have already tabled an amendment in the second reading to paragraph 1, where tax rulings are now listed in cases where a person cannot be the founder of a company or a recipient of the status of a member. The bill thus makes it clear to us that it sets firm limits and obstacles to possible mistakes that would affect an honest entrepreneur. For this reason, the Group of Members has no reason not to support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, he will present the position of mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u10	Thank you very much again for your word. The arrangements we have today in Slovenia in the area of forced settlement and bankruptcy on the one hand, and free entrepreneurship with the unlimited right to set up and run companies on the other hand, I hope to claim that it protects unfair entrepreneurs. He definitely doesn't protect honest people. This is clearly seen every day over and over again from many of the cases that we monitor on TV screens. The unfair are not subject to any sanctions, nor should they be able to open another hundred and one bypasses of the company after the shipwreck of their company. And all this talk about the violation of the constitutional right to a free enterprise initiative or the right to entrepreneurship referred to in Article 74 of the Constitution, if I am precise, is completely biased and also of interest. What about the rights of others or the public interest? Is it true in this proposal that we are not able to see these salaries of the story, this salary, which seems far more important to us? I ask you, how many companies and individuals with a name and surname have been exploited, abused, exploited, bankrupt, and personal tragedy because of the irregularity of this area? How many, I'm asking you. Much, much too much. And we're still not ready to protect them. I'm talking about all those honest, well-intentioned entrepreneurs and employees who are employed in these companies. No, under the cover of the protection of the Constitution and infringements of the right to entrepreneurship, you continue to protect those, or to protect those, more precisely – because I see that a positive attitude towards this proposal is being established – which should have been banned for life. I firmly believe that the victim of proof of "innocentness" will be substantially, substantially smaller than the victims of this regime, whose manifestation we monitor daily on TV screens. Let me not repeat and list all the cases that literally mean mockery from the rule of law and from its citizens and citizens. We firmly believe that every shareholder in the economic system must bear a certain amount of risk, and above all much, much more responsibility, including those of businesses, including directors, like all other employees. Every employee has a risk of landing on the road tomorrow. Does this mean that those who are operators of these economic operators do not have to bear any risks? No risk at all? So, the risk of tomorrow bearing any consequences for what they did wrong. We're talking about responsibility. We think and firmly believe that the free enterprise initiative is also limited to the rights of others. It is not a matter of God-given right; it is a right which is inseparably linked to responsibility and consequently to the rights of others. These others rightly expect the country to allow them fair conditions for the exercise of their same constitutional right to free entrepreneurship. Therefore, let us support this law and move forward in solving another pressing social problem, just as we did yesterday. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Franc Jurša will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you very much for your words. Good morning, everyone! The DeSUS Group will support the text of the proposed Act on Complements of the Company Act. In our first reading, we supported the proposal of the Group of Members, although we had concerns, namely, the right to entrepreneurial freedom was legally questioned for us. The issue of the unconstitutionality of the bill is still in the air, but the whole purpose of the law must be presented in terms of the whole story of bankruptcy and the business and financial events of the post-festum. In our Group of Members, we weighed between this constitutional right and the right of every worker to be guaranteed social security by paying for his work both in net amount and by paying all the mandatory contributions for him. All business entities of such an undertaking shall also have the right to be paid on the basis of mutual contractual relations in a timely, fair and complete manner, not waiting for them to take their turn if they come at all and to what extent to pay their claims in insolvency proceedings. While, for example, the former CEO of the company whales with a new company and sunbathing on some exotic island where the bank account was accidentally opened. And given that this side of the scales, according to our assessment, has a significantly higher weight, we fully agree with the proposal of the law in the supplementary text for the third reading. The essence of every right is also that there must be limits to where a right and freedom applies. The border is certainly where the rights of others are at risk. In our Group of Members, we agree that forced settlement and bankruptcy, which is not a real consequence of economic problems or of the present economic crisis, is all too much and that all of them are fake and abused. We condemn those who deliberately deliberately drain the company with the intention of taking advantage of the injury of hardworking workers and honest and charitable partners and subcontractors, and the resources are deliberately drained into other places and, in the same breath, when they close down one of the disadvantaged companies in such or other roles, they appear in another company whose story is expected to be, so we see from the practice so far, end up with a similar epilogue or scenario. We believe that this law will not limit the free economic initiative of honest entrepreneurs. It will limit it to those who have, in their own way, organised and used the true purpose of a free economic initiative. It will limit it to those who, in their own ingenuity and not sufficiently rigorous legislation, which allows for still a lot of legal voids, have chosen it exclusively to their own advantage, at the expense of others, workers, business partners, subcontractors, and, last but not least, the countries indirectly. As we say, the marriage on our part will be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u13	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u14	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. My colleagues and colleagues, I smell good morning! Today's gonna be a good time. Tomorrow they say it's gonna get worse. The content we are talking about is also comparable to time. I'll start with a comparison. Yesterday we discussed the law on the amendment of the competition restriction law, which was created because the government had done nothing since April last year and had changed some of the content of its misdemeanour by law. Today we have before us a law that is meaningfully the same. We all know that we have institutions, institutions, Slovenian well-spokenly, we have had a legal basis for many years, but none of this has worked. Mr. Managers hired loans, weakened banks, opened virtual companies, virtual accounts, credited money they still had there. All the institutions, all the laws that were in force — nothing! Same comparison. And now, thank God, someone said: but now with the law I will correct that which is already laid down in the law, but is not carried out. But no, because it's an individual, and it's not. The government can afford it, don't do it, forget it, okay, but I'm going to change the law, and I'm going to give the law to supplement it, and that's huge. But if someone does the same thing because of the same mistakes, it is unconstitutional and violates the freedom of entrepreneurship. We all know the definition of democracy and anarchy. The difference is just one step. The same is true of freedom of entrepreneurship. Yeah, freedom of entrepreneurship, thank God, honest, with the authorities controlling it, not the freedom of entrepreneurship to buy a state-owned enterprise cheaply, create a huge profit for your pocket, destroy it, make three others with it, destroy those three, grab the money, and go. This is the freedom of entrepreneurship in Slovenian. If you don't believe us, we're going together to look at all the files we have today about what's going on in Slovenia. And we have organs that should monitor it, see, know, hear. Has anyone done anything? Nothing. I'm sorry I have to defend such a marriage in this way, but that's the way it is. This law will be passed, too, I think. But what's the saddest thing? It's not gonna happen again. This is the greatest absurdity, and nothing will happen again. I understand that the legal side should also be looked at. I understand that there is a lot of work for those working in the executive branch. I understand everything, I've always understood everything, and I always want to understand. But it hurts a little if no one does anything. And if you don't make an anti-flooding shore, flood protection, you'll experience what's happening in Thailand today, I think, the floods of the century. That's right. We have been in the Slovenian National Party and will always respect the work of the Legal and Legislative Service and will always respect their opinion and judgment. But sometimes it happens that one looks different. Or, according to our own words, in Slovenian, thank God that something has been written down that will finally prevent theft, personal wealth, throwing workers on the road, and perhaps encourage someone to say, on the basis of this law, if adopted, that: okay, we will not go to constitutional judgment, but we will take this content into account and write a comprehensive law that will allow the freedom of entrepreneurship and at the same time limit the part that passes into anarchic work. We've talked a lot about this marriage. I don't even know what was going on in all those papers. But nothing has changed at this time. There were millions of concerns, ideas, suggestions, opinions that a new law would be written, but nothing happened at that time. And then what else can a person do as he says: thank God, as is likely to be the law on restricting competition that we discussed yesterday and which is a complete nonsense to me, the silence of wrongdoing and ignorance to the government, I hope that this law will also be passed. This law is supposed to be unconstitutional, otherwise it should not be unconstitutional, but it is contentious. And I hope that it will be adopted and that it will at least cause someone to seriously address the problems that we all see, and we all seal up, like, I will return to Thailand, images of three monkeys: I can't hear, I can't see, I'm not speaking.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u15	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr Willi Rezman will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u16	Good morning and thank you so much for saying that. The Law on Economic Companies, which we are currently dealing with, has so far raised a lot of dust, and in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we are confident that it will not fall apart quickly, especially if it is and when it will be adopted. While we have supported the position so far in the process that the law is suitable for further consideration and we hope that there will be some major changes that will improve it, our hopes have not been fully fulfilled. The amendments that have been proposed and adopted have also not resolved the fundamental problem that some see in this law. Otherwise, the position of unrelated Members will be drawn up after the debate, so that everyone will decide for himself and not be completely homogeneous. The support for the purpose was expressed in such a way on all sides. We too support the purpose, for it is either an extermination or a prevention of abuse, unfair acts. It is about protecting employees in order to protect business partners, after all, the state and its public treasury, because all of this has been played out in these and these procedures. We reject the obvious, however, that those who do not support this law, who have doubts, protect the dishonest. The fact that some advocate that those who are not guilty would not be punished is not the protection of the dishonest, is not the protection of bad practices, but is the call for all possible remedies to be used so far, that the rule of law is also established and that it is prevented as far as possible and sanctioned after proven guilty persons. Our general view goes this way so that something similar can happen in this marriage. I'm not going to say that to the same extent as it happened with deleted companies. This problem has dragged on for ten years, and we have not been able to solve it. Even yesterday, when we solved it, we solved it more on the basis of legal volunteerism than on the basis of the rule of law, and the question is whether what we concluded yesterday will also sustain it. This law may also have similar effects in the coming years, and I have therefore mentioned in the introduction that the dust will not fall down quickly. Even in our group, we differ from the point of view that any abuse that is taking place must be prevented in every way and at all costs to the point of view that there will be too many innocent victims and that those who are guilty must first be proved guilty. It will happen that more will be punished than guilty ones, for those who later prove and prove successfully in the courts that they were not guilty have already been punished, stigmatized, and will have to try to do so in court. Therefore, it is no wonder that some, including the profession, resist first sanctioning and then judging. This is what this law brings — first the sanction and then the judgment. No professional support for this law has therefore been seen, merely political, and perhaps in any other period this political support would not be as large as it is now. The problem is also that objective circumstances and objective guilt are tantamount to subjective guilt, that those who were not themselves guilty, who did not do something wrong with intent, and that they will be put in the same line with those who committed a sin with intent and intent. At the same time, it may be possible that those who might have to be in bankruptcy proceedings will be extended because they are protected by the State because they are still held above water by taxpayers’ money. It is also very questionable whether it is possible to support such a work. At least some find it poorly justified to punish themselves according to the size of the enterprises and regardless of the nature and extent of the offence or offence. The nature of the offence is the one that must be crucial, not how large or small it is a company that has committed something that should not be done, or whether it has been done by the supervisory authorities or the management authorities. The amendments, particularly those tabled by the Zares Group, have been somewhat precise, have slightly improved the text of this law, but have not solved the underlying problem. The fundamental problem is that they are all guilty first and that they must then appear before the courts and prove their innocence there after they have already been sanctioned. The second thing that has been seen today is that we have not eliminated the problem of constitutional provisions, the problem that you must first be legally convicted before you can be sanctioned and the problem interferes with a free economic initiative, because a ten-year ban on active business activity is also a sanction that will affect many of them to the level of social transfers, rather than trying to exercise their abilities in a fair way in the free market. Hence, the consequences can be bad. So let me mention a few numbers. Over the past two years, there were over 300 bankruptcy proceedings in 2009 and more than 500 bankruptcy proceedings in last year. By September this year there will be about 500. In Western Europe, between 150 and 200 thousand bankruptcys have been carried out in recent years. If all of this is first sanctioned and all of these hundred thousand will go to court to defend their innocence, then we will also block the judicial system. That is why we all have no intention of supporting this bill because it also sanctions those who are not guilty and puts them in the same line as those who have committed their actions with intent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u17	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u18	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. As has been mentioned several times today, the Group of Members has indeed participated in the amendments to this law, and we now believe that the law is suitable for adoption. Firstly, because it interferes with an area that is crucial for economic stability and also for social protection of workers. In recent months, we have witnessed a number of cases of insolvency or bankruptcy, where it was clear that a number of stories about insolvency companies are happening in a way that sometimes happened in order for some entrepreneurs to switch to another opportunity and to ride it without further sanctions. That's what's been going on. It is true that when we deal with this in a systematic way with the law, we risk engaging in this package of sanctioned malicious entrepreneurs, including those who are not guilty of the situation in their company. But the guards who are now incorporated into this law allow and allow those who are not actually responsible for any of them to not be limited in the exercise and exercise of their own business rights. From the point of view of the social added value of this law, it should be pointed out that this is one of those concrete responses that we offer to civil society, the civil society which represents 99% of the population, which today draws attention to the untransparent management of the economy and to the injustices that arise from this title. Indeed, in its complementary programme, the Party stressed in its manifesto for the responsible economy that there will be no exit from the crisis without the maximum responsibility of economic and economic operators. The responsible economy, however, is based on legislation that allows entrepreneurs to operate transparently and that prevents such abuses and abuses that we have witnessed in recent years from repeating and, in essence, devalue the concept of entrepreneurship. So this law is actually a defense for responsible entrepreneurship, and that is why we strongly support it. We support this law, as we have proposed and supported the asset confiscation law, because it is a few small steps towards strengthening the rule of law in the area of responsible economy. As you know, we will not give up. We have repeatedly highlighted the importance of transparent action in entrepreneurship itself, the need for non-payment of social and health contributions to be considered a crime. Therefore, I think that the next step in eliminating all these inconsistencies, which unfortunately devalued the social state, has also evaluated the Slovenian economic transition, which in some parts has indeed preserved quite a bit of social control over the economy, which some have mixed with policy intrusion into the economy. No, we believe that social control of the economy is important as a regulator, and this law is one of the instruments of this regulation. That is why, of course, we will support the law, and we are pleased to note that some of the concerns, some of the constructive initiatives of the Group of Members, have indeed been taken into account, so that we do not see any reason to oppose the law because of what has been said before, if honest entrepreneurs are also involved. No, these guards are actually preventing something like this from happening in the end. So, with a calm conscience, I think that this law is one of the answers that those who demonstrate before the stock market and expect concrete answers from politics to how to further establish some sustainable and economically sustainable entrepreneurship. One of the answers, not the only, is this one. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On behalf of the proposer, he has the word mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. At the outset, I would like to say that today, when we are discussing this law, we must be careful and not be flattened. We must not flatten entrepreneurs, managers and all those who are fighting to ensure that their companies are doing well to face the tightening of market conditions. These should be absolutely supported. We need to make a clear line here. To those who have played with big money on the basis of a free enterprise initiative in the past, they have played with how big companies would own and become their property overnight, despite the fact that they have come to this new country with a cull and a couple of old Yugoslav dinars, and overnight what they have become big entrepreneurs and capitalists, and I don't know what else, but in this case they have to behave differently. It was said that existing legislation allows for sanctioning. I'd say that's what even holds it. But tell me one case that we've been following for the last three, four years, which has been sanctioned, one case for which the Slovenians have been ashamed of happening. We were ashamed to watch TV screens about what was happening in Slovenia. And we could have been ashamed not only of ourselves but also of Europe. We could have been ashamed. And nothing happened! Except that 26 or 27 complaints have been filed, and the question is when will all of this end together. If it ends, just as some other cases have ended, with excuses, it is nothing. I simply do not agree with this, given that I believe that there is a great deal of knowledge in the ministries, that there are many people in employment who would be able to solve this problem, that this proposal was not that you did not come with any systemic solution. You had three, four years. That's not the only problem with this mandate. Unfortunately, the problem has escalated to abnormal heights in this mandate. But that's what you were there for, and that's what you were paid for to make a solution. Since this was not the case, three of our associates and I prepared what it was. We are talking about the conditions for setting up a new company, that is, those conditions that must be met by those who want to set up a new company, and they are also concerned that if they have done something wrong, they cannot set up their own company for some time. I think it's only fair to select the good from the bad. However, if this has happened because of the acute market situation, due to the struggle of competing companies on a single market to destroy their competition, which is also happening, and I myself have witnessed when a substantially larger corporation does everything in a local market to take away your market share, to put you in a position to be virtually powerless, I agree that then that manager or that director is not to blame. This will simply prove and this must not be a way to save those who have threatened this country with a free enterprise initiative! A free enterprise initiative in this country has endangered this country! Everything that's been happening and what we've been monitoring, from the banks forward, from the bank's free enterprise initiative, when credits were allocated just like that, without any responsibility, to everything that happened later. First out of big greed, because I'm going to be a big entrepreneur and it's not enough for me to buy one company, I'm going to buy six more companies, I'm going to get credits on pretty eyes, I'm not going to get any business models without any real guarantees, stock guarantees, I'm going to get big money, I'm going to buy everything alive and dead, what I could buy. Then the times changed, the first company went bankrupt, the workers without any protection, because the free enterprise initiative allows me to do so, to set up another one, two more, three more, four more companies, and I am taking the matter forward and not answering for anything. This is not a free enterprise initiative for me. This is an ultra-liberal free enterprise initiative. So no matter what happens, I can do what I want and not answer for anything. Every worker risks losing his job at some point and landing on the road. Even this danger is that he doesn't get his retirement and so on. In our free enterprise initiative, the manager who went to unfair games, greed and so on, and here I want to make a clear distinction between honest and dishonest – what is his risk? None. Unless someone remembers from, I don't know, prosecutors and so on, they were really not sure what kind of story to call. But it hasn't happened, at least not yet. In my opinion, it would be fair, even for employees, to take the risk that if the matter were to go wrong and would want to – because it is nothing yet if you wanted to start a new company, you should prove that I was doing what was right, with good intentions, and that the company was doing what was best, but something had broken down during the business. Is that such a big problem? Is that really such a big problem? We don't criminalize anyone, we don't want to report anything to anyone, far from it. But in order to establish a normal, healthy entrepreneurial environment and to separate the grain from the weeds, it is probably necessary to take any step that may not be popular or that may be harsh, or there will be no change in this country, unfortunately, there will be no. Otherwise, make a better proposal, but let us face this problem, not just saying that there is nothing to be done. There is no excuse that nothing can be done for me — that it must be willed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. [[He's not here.]] Mag. Sarah Wheeler. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Ivan Grill, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u22	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. Your Honors are here! Our constitution states that Slovenia is a legal and social state, and we could also list it, but it is only a letter on paper. In practice, it is far from that, and above all, we think that the rule of law means justice. But here's the big difference. The rule of law may be something abstract that the legal order that we have in Slovenia is taken into account for all the same things, but for the last 20 years we have witnessed – not speaking before we had a totalitarian system and, of course, it was even less – that the legal system is often taken into account by individuals, by influentials who belong to the elite, and so it is also in the field of the economy. But that is so that Slovenia is not a just country, that it is a criminal state for those people who create, who work, who are confident that they will be able to support themselves, their family, create some prosperity for all – to these countries or our system is unfortunately not fair. But why is that? The judiciary is certainly one of the key culprits, that our system is not just and that it does not work. Of course, other institutions, from the prosecution, the police, various agencies, inspections and so on. This is the entire chain that does not work in Slovenia. If all of these were to work, a number of matters in Slovenia would take place in the same way as the purpose of the law, in order to ensure as much fair a system and equivalent conditions for work and life. This is also true in the field of economy or the so-called free enterprise initiative. Probably those first laws that were in good faith wanted to create a better entrepreneurial initiative, better conditions for this thing to develop in Slovenia. Anyone who remembers 20 years ago when we gave the enterprise initiative – for the fights of 2 000 tolars – today is about 8 euros, everyone could have set up a share. And if we remember how many new entrepreneurs were born at the time, who took the car to leasing and the cell phone for the biggest money there was then. These were our entrepreneurs who were up and expecting Slovenia to start developing. Many of them carried out their purpose in righteousness, righteousness, and work, and they created many things out of nothing. There were also many who abused the possibility of taking personal advantage. It is true that there were not so many tragic cases at the time that such "entrepreneurs" would plunge into bankruptcy or the destruction of other entrepreneurs or put on the road to dozens or hundreds of people. That was not the case at the time, but those entrepreneurs or parts of the company cheated on a store, and the suppliers raised the goods, the materials, the equipment, and they paid nothing, and then went bankrupt. At that time, the country was deprived and the budget was probably some kind of company. This was also a great damage, but at the time there were not so many traumatic things happening as today, when hundreds of them landed on the road, thousands of people landed on the road, and just as many companies went bankrupt. During these 20 years, entrepreneurs who are conscious of abuse of legislation and the system, especially people, have learned much. They've been one step ahead of the law all along. And even if the relevant institutions were to implement the laws, I am sure that this would not be so much. But we are still witnessing that even if something is written in our legislation, it is not implemented. The case of Grubelić is probably still in memory of many people 15 or 20 years ago. This was one of the first legally convicted entrepreneurs to cheat and steal many, many people who paid for cars at the time, and this money went away and never got cars. As far as I am aware, this gentleman has not endured his sentence until today. Let's ask ourselves why. He hasn't sat down for a day. Let's ask ourselves why. Probably, if someone accidentally did something wrong, he was immediately sanctioned. I'll tell you two more cases about how our legal system is being abused without anything happening to those responsible. Director of Ljubljana Pharmacy, so-called the right-hand man of the Mayor of Ljubljana of the Municipality of Ljubljana, Mr Jankovic. Unlike the Slovenian legal order, they produced Galenic medicines. All the institutions that have dealt with this have found that this is illegal. Minister of Health – it was illegal. What happened to Mr Jaklic, with Lekarna Ljubljana, with the Municipality of Ljubljana? Did something happen?Oh, my God! Nothing! This is the official part of Mr. Jaklic. Let's go to his private part. Since 2005, since its black construction, this black construction still stands, despite decisions being made, even for demolition, by putting this case in the drawer for two years. [[advertising from the hall]] Mrs. Pecan, are you in pain with such a comparison? This is what affects our free enterprise initiative how our legal system works. And you'll see how our legal system is being abused. The Law of Administrative Procedure is probably responsible for this, too. Two days before this decision should be served on Mr Jaklić, he revoked his lawyer's power to delay the procedure, probably expecting him to delay taking office again after 4 December in such a way as to allow him to complete the matter again. Look, this is the legal system we have here, the legal system for some. Earlier, one of the discussers said that the number of bankruptcy proceedings in Slovenia was increasing, many of them compared to the previous years. There are many of them, but I am sure that if this law were to be or if the legislation we have in Slovenia were to be complied with, and if institutions were to operate, these bankruptcys would be significantly less. Why is that? If there were not some large systems such as SCT, Vegrad, the company that built the Stožice Stadium – you know how many companies, small subcontractors went bankrupt because of them? They're the reason they went bankrupt! And that's the problem. If compliance with the rule of law made it impossible for a wide variety of exiled entrepreneurs to abuse the system, that would be less. There would be significantly fewer people and their families on the road. Some say that she has been held under this law or that she does not support it. What line?Oh, my God! Is this the profession that has so far written legislation that has given opinions on the functioning of our institutions that do not work? The same profession will now be able to criticize the good purpose of this law, which I am pleased to support, and I hope it will contribute something to try to regulate this area, although there is no guarantee anywhere. There's no guarantee. Here, too, the dilemmas of some fellow Members of Parliament, that some entrepreneurs will be affected, that they will have difficulties, that the backlogs will increase if they have to prove their 'innocent' in court or that they are not guilty of going bankrupt. I firmly believe that for the company that went bankrupt because of Vegrad, SCT, construction of Stožice, evidence will be very, very easy. They won't have any problems. They may have a problem with those who have driven the company into bankruptcy. It is also interesting to see the support expressed by almost all parliamentary groups or even all of them; rare individuals give up this support or are detained and the government does not support it. Interesting. Even those who claim that this is contrary to the Constitution – if it is contrary to the Constitution, ideas that are well-intentioned, in my opinion we may be able, not now, but in the next term, to subject those who will have the opportunity to do so, also to the Constitution. The Constitution is the first act to ensure a just state, not a just one, and I hope that we will succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan, you have a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u24	Mr President, I can agree that you are leaving a broad debate, but I would ask you to warn Members who are mixing pears and apples. What does the law on administrative procedure, inspection procedure, abuse of administrative procedure in black construction have to do with this law? I think we're losing the red thread of this marriage. I think it's good that we accept it, only what kind of connection is Jasnic – I have no idea who it is – by this law, because it's probably not the owner of the company that put him in bankruptcy. I don't know what one person is, I have nothing to do with him because I don't even know him. But I find it foolish — no offense to use such words — to talk foolishly about a law that clears up business correctness and honesty in connection with some administrative procedure. Let's get the law on administrative procedure fixed then, shall we? But not today and not in this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u25	Thank you very much, Mrs. Breda Bakan. I hope that we have heard an opinion on this and that we are trying to stick to the content of the debate and to the content of the law under consideration. Dr. Pavel Gantar has the word. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Matevž Frangež, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u26	Respected and respected! I firmly believe in the good intentions of this proposal. I think he's pointing to the real problem, but I'm afraid he's answering this problem quite wrong. I have repeatedly reasoned in the debates on why I think so, so that I will not cite all the reasons today, but it seems crucial to me that this law is only a shortcut to the illusion of a state of law, a state of law without justice, and if I am allowed one metaphor, I would say that we will close 100 people because there is a high probability that there are two murderers among these hundreds. I think that this is a mistake to rule out this responsibility does not justify the sanction that we are doing by incriminating the insolvency procedure as such. Since Mr Žerjav called for alternatives, I, in the general debate, have put something forward in the debate before the working body, from the need to define the diligence of a good economist, which we have as a standard in the Company Act, to the point that criteria should be defined during insolvency proceedings to reach a comparative regime that would bind such incrimination to a fraudulent insolvency procedure or fraudulent bankruptcy, as some European countries know. Thus, on every insolvency procedure, I am convinced that it is conceptually flawed and expresses a deep misunderstanding of the nature of entrepreneurship, which basically carries the willingness to take risks. I think that entrepreneurship Slovenia is the only recipe for the situation Slovenia is in, and if we are wondering how we want more in this society, then we need to raise and develop different entrepreneurship, a much more favoured entrepreneurial environment, with an internationally comparable economic system. This is another step that does not lead to this goal. I agree with the proposaler that the Constitutional Court's assessment of this law will be made by the Constitutional Court and that we are not called upon to do so, but I believe that there is a high probability, and I am also fully associated with the Government's position that it is conceptually flawed in this respect and that it does not lead to what the applicants also want to come to, and this is a regulated economic environment in which abuses will not take place. In the economic environment, abuses are always taking place, and our task is to develop such legislation that will allow law enforcement and justice authorities on individualised cases, case by case, with individual responsibility, to clean up the market and that only those who respect rules and fair play can remain on the market. Since time is short, let me say a few more words at the end. This is very likely my last performance in this hall. At the conclusion of this mandate, I would like to thank all my colleagues and colleagues so far for their proper cooperation. I cannot say that the experience in this House was only good, on the contrary. But she was interesting and very informative. I want people in this Chamber to sit in the future who prefer this country as their client, and that people of this country will love them as their families do, so that we can open up and not close the possibility of a happy and full life.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u27	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u28	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! I will try to stick to this agenda, but I would still like to say something, namely that the tree of dishonesty, the tree of corruption has a very broad root and it is difficult to limit itself to just one box and not to take into account that the roots also grow past the boxes. So if anyone gives an example, I think it's just a reinforcement of what we're talking about. I'd start like this. It is an environment in which one thing happens, it is an economic environment at the moment in Slovenia, it is a way of thinking or, if you want, also a sense of some values that are valid in Slovenia, what is worth, what is not worth it. It is said to us, "You know, but this is worth it, and this one is found." Yeah, he did, but what did he do about it, how did he do it? The fact is that work is no longer of value to us; this has made it possible for work to be of no value. But you will remember, work in Slovenia and for Slovenians was a centuries-old value. We Slovenians were famous for that. Working people, it's said to be worth doing. Today, however, we are in a situation where everyone says: “It’s not worth doing. We have brought this system so far, even because these things are happening, which is why this law was created. In recent times, especially in the last 10 years, those who do not work in a classical sense, as we know the work with their hands or with their minds — the high added value would be called — are obviously those who speculate because it pays them because nothing happens to them. Today, we would call it those who inflate a balloon, a system, I don't know, a real estate balloon or any other. Something puffs up that doesn't have real value, which doesn't have real basis. That says something's possible. Not with work, but with something else; by throwing papers, by looking for holes, by voicing how the legislation is not right, but by writing legislation by experts, not by analphabetes, at least so far. So it seems to me that right now the moral question is whether it's fair and fair that you're doing some business to order something, and then you don't pay for it, and you have the benefit of it. You turn somebody else's back, you let him down, and when you get the money for that, because it's worth it, because no one grabbed you by the collar, you send the company to bankruptcy. Before, of course, you do one bunch of parallel companies, you point everything at that, on the kids, on the wife, on all your relatives, maybe, so you have nothing, and then you say, "I have nothing." If possible – not if possible, this is also happening. You transfer the assets from the company you're working at, which you've put in bankruptcy, to another company you've already set up, and you're working happily ever after. And then you even hope to invite those workers and say that if half of them can come or, I don't know, 10% can come to me now to work at a new company and I haven't paid them for six months. You know, that's the problem, and that's allowed. That's terrible! With this you send not only your company to bankruptcy, but you send a bunch of co-workers who worked for you, who are in good faith, to do what is right, to do something to cooperate with you, and you don't pay, and then you make excuses. I'd give an exciting example of highway construction. Construction of motorways – we did not pay subcontractors. Well, not us, but those who are, yes, could say so, because highways were built from the budget, from loans paid by the state, and we are representatives of the state in the legislative branch of government. [[...]] This is said to mean that we are also indirectly allowing subcontractors not to be paid and the contractor to receive payment. And now they're saying how it doesn't work, you can't do anything to get subcontractors to pay. This is an exciting case. And the damage was done by the workers who worked at that firm that went bankrupt and a bunch of co-workers. Perhaps to some extent — I say, perhaps, the emphasis on possible — would have understood that you are going to bankrupt your company. If it's just yours, okay, it's your business, but you have no right to do it to hurt hundreds or thousands of other people. There's no such thing as a right. And this right should be sought in a court of law, and we're in a state of law. And apparently that's not working. Then why do sub-contractors of the Moorish highway have been tormented for so many years, and they haven't been paid yet, and we're saying that we're a legal state, and we're even saying how this can't be done, how something is missing in some marriage. It is said that something does not count that the classical instruments that we have used so far do not play, do not come into play with us, do not matter, do not know, do not be able to use them or do not want to use them. It is said that some additional instruments must be used, and this law is one of such instruments. And if, so far, the normal instruments we have and I am sure, this is my belief that the legislation is okay – if we were to implement it, all of these lumbarties should not happen. The SCT should not happen, but a parallel company should be set up and assets transferred to another company, while workers remain on the road without payment. It wouldn't have happened to Vegrad, it wouldn't have happened to Viator & Vector, it wouldn't have happened to Constructor, construction company Constructor, and all the co-operatives who are here. Now I ask myself, isn't that too much? Haven't we gone too far? Is it not too many who have been left for their honest work without fair pay because someone has fucked them and has not responded? Is that not reason enough to ask ourselves that we need to do something else? And that's the law. And now I hope it's ugly to say that it's against the Constitution or that it won't hold up that the profession can't handle it or anything. I don't understand it! Thousands of people are injured because something, I don't know if it works or doesn't work, or it can't work, but when we try something else, I don't say that it's the only thing that's going to be saved right now, and that we're going to solve everything -- no, but at least it's an attempt to try, because all the instruments that the profession has proposed don't apply, they don't. [[...]] They don't. Not even an aspirin to catch. That's what they say. We have to take new medications. And that's one of those laws. And now to say that it is also a profession against or part of the profession against – how can it be against, but if we have thousands, tens of thousands of cases when things do not go together, and people are damaged because they worked for someone else, and this one has set up a parallel company and left them on the road, on the run without any payment? I'd say it's an abuse of profession, if that's what we're saying. And about the fact that this is not the right measure, I would say: let's ask those workers at the SCT, at Vegrad, at the Viator, at the Designer, at their co-operatives, what they think about, if it's really wrong to try again in this way, that until you settle all the old obligations, you can't start a new company, but you can move from old to new until you've settled all the obligations. These workers should be asked. Every day we look at them in their troubles in the media. They would be asked whether they would be willing to adopt such a law and whether they thought that only a few things might be touched if all the measures we have so far were not taken. I'm sure such a marriage is necessary. If none of this has so far come from the legislation we have, and we say that we are supreme in legislation, let us accept this and see what happens. And we'll see who's going to cancel who doesn't know this tool or won't want to use it. In the end, I'd say the following. The government's representatives are here, and they're the lightning rod now, I understand that. Let them take this in such a way that it is not an attack on them personally, but because they are representatives of the government as a representative of an authority. In this context, I consider it. I would like to ask what kind of government can be against such a measure, which gives the possibility that something might happen, but it does not suggest anything better, given that things are not right. So you have to try. If you don't try, then you can't say that this measure won't be taken, and you're just watching how things that are abnormal, unfair, unfair, continue and you don't propose any action. That's not how it works. So it is necessary to propose, but some measure is expected to be taken. We'll see where there's a weak spot here that can be fixed. But if you don't do anything, then it stays the same. And I don't think you need to list again companies that show that something's wrong. That's why I support this law. I'm just sorry we haven't accepted it before, on any other occasion. Something like this has already been suggested, but I don't think it's ever too late. Therefore, it is also gratifying that at least in the end we should make an effort to give the green light to this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Miran Györek. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Marjan Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u30	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Hello, representatives of the government, Members of Parliament and Members! We have before us the additions to the Company Act. In doing so, it must be emphasized that this law is certainly coming a long, very late day, but it is never too late if it is being properly implemented. I do not think that we should mix this law and put it in one basket for companies that operate well and for companies or owners of companies that open up businesses with various machinations and transfer assets in one way or another. Finally, we need to ask ourselves whether this law will be sufficient for those huge entrepreneurs or corporate owners who have more than ten registered companies in stock. I hope not, and it would be right to become a healthy country of healthy societies, where we will have a lot of added value for citizens and citizens, that we will no longer live with the breath of the south of the system, and that we will no longer mix the suburban movement and glittering painting. I think we need to get on our feet once and start thinking about the economy starting to run the politics of the country of Slovenia, not destroying politicians and economic operators. It is true that there are quite good things in this marriage, but, as I have already pointed out, it is very, very late. We need to know that many companies have gone bankrupt on purpose. I'll give you a specific case. The company went into compulsory settlement in October. During this time, this economic operator set up a private company, and in the conviction of the creditors, the compulsory settlement was normally confirmed, but in January this company was already bankrupt. What, then, is the forcible settlement? Allowing the economists, not all, but those who are all husbands, to destroy and steal everything that is healthy in these companies. That's why I don't approve of forced settlement. That's why I don't approve of bankruptcy proceedings going on for five to ten years. Who's running bankruptcy procedures? Insolvents with ten to twenty bankruptcy companies. Are they really so special that they can run so many businesses? At the end of the day, there is a director of several companies. I think we need to end this once, that good businesses should have entrepreneurs who have good business objectives that have a clear strategy, a vision of the Western world, not the south of the system, how to fill their pockets, how to fill the pockets of friends, colleagues, not give added value to society, to those employees who are very few in Slovenia. We must also be aware that we have a major management problem in Slovenia. We must also be aware that in Slovenia they are always one and the same in the functions of state-owned companies. One time for two years, one year, three years there is a director in one company, then the next one is the director in another company, and if he is lucky not to bankrupt these companies at that time, this appointed director. That is why I am saying that they should start to lead an economic policy once in this love of Slovenia, not an economic policy. Another thing that's very important. In this law, it must also be touched by this and it must be said that companies with good intentions will not have a problem creating a parallel company, which is necessary because of the situation, due to the new added value. Neither will they have a problem with this new law that is on the table today. But we're going to stop the machinations, we're going to stop the huge people who did this. In this mandate – I must admit that I am here for the first time as a member of the National Assembly – we have warned many times about these things, those who have ever worked in the economy, those who have hurt us these things. Žerjav also comes from the economy and knows how to favour a positive attitude in this country, he has put forward a proposal for this law. I think it's right that we all know that and support him. As far as you can hear from the debates, you're all in favour of him today. I think the government should have fallen two and a half years ago. We'd have supported him by then. That's when you all opposed this law. Believe me, a lot of businesses would have saved a lot of jobs. I say again, let's not mix pears and apples. This law is intended for bad companies, for entrepreneurs, for owners who purposely bankrupt businesses, not for those who have companies for the future, for the benefit of all of us citizens and citizens, and for the added value of development in Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u32	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I would like to stress once again that I am truly in favour of this law. I believe that even if there is an objective problem, or perhaps even any dispute, this moment certainly is one of the drugs that can at least partially regulate the abuse that is ongoing, and not only now that no one thinks wrong – it is not only Vegrad, it is not just the SCT, it is not just the Constructor, it is not only the target company, but the construction company from Grosuplja, GPG Grosuplje, but also a number of others, a number of other companies whose owners or co-owners, shareholders or even management have established a company bypass or during one year prior to bankruptcy or the process of forced settlement as some satellites have secreted important and lively quality assets and have moved them into some subsidiaries or we cannot even say a subsidiary because they were established as special companies unrelated to the parent company. The problem is that this law is, in fact, designed to cut this possible link, to easily cut it off, that the person who does it is not allowed to do so. It's not that the company shouldn't do anything like this, but the person who ran the company that owned the company can't start the new companies if this company has already gone bankrupt. Even if this has been done before bankruptcy, however, that two-year period is long enough for them to find in court very quickly that this was done for an evil purpose; I cannot use another term. And by the way, the law that prevented it already existed in 1986, but we, who are very smart and think we should have an entrepreneurial initiative, are then [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr. Aloise Posedel has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Tadej Slapnik. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Janez Fishich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President of the National Assembly, I welcome you all together! Such an important topic, one of them, for the exit from the crisis in Slovenia. 90 of us were elected to this National Assembly, and let's take a look at the picture. Lately, much too late, we have adopted a proposal for an Act on Complements of the Law on Economic Companies. We missed a lot, a lot of people lost their jobs in social distress. As a result of such entrepreneurs who have spent their money, they have invested money somewhere, then put the company in bankruptcy, people, employees at the employment office, or they have not even taken care of it, and registered the new company themselves and again promoted themselves as super managers of supernatural abilities, continued to cheat and seek out state networks in which they hide. We want to end this proposal of the law. Such people must not come anywhere near where the company can be registered. Of course, not everyone is to blame for their bankruptcy. This is what some of the uplifters, such as we say are odourless and tasteless — some politicians, mayors, municipalities with the largest population, and others. I know a case from the end of Styrian, when the entrepreneur took his life because of such people and such moves, because of the incompetent leaders in the companies that were installed there because of the interests of others, the corrupt. That's why I'm saying it has to be done. Cases need to be resolved from case to case so that no one who is not to blame is guilty of being forced to settle, forcible termination, bankruptcy. Dearly beloved, if we are to do something good, let us support this law so that our country will become at least a little legal again. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr. Willy Trophynik has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Joseph Jerovšek. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Guido Kres. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Miro Friday. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Majda Shirca Ravnikar. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Franz Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u36	Nice greetings, colleagues and colleagues! As Mrs Breda Pecan had previously found out, I believe it was once. Of course, I didn't check it or see it in the legislation. So this should be in the law all the time. See, as it says here at the time of the amendment of Article 10a: "The founder, associate, member of the management or control body of the company cannot be who is a member of the management or control body of a large, medium or small company, over which one of the insolvency proceedings started." Look, these people are key people, these people have inside information. These people have all the internal links, all the connections and, of course, they simply transfer all the knowledge, all the things that a lot of people have created, and all those connections to another company and everything else let go to bankruptcy, along with the workers and so on, and they have one part left there that brings capital. This is also the case in mixed companies, even if it is a municipal company and so on, where it is part of a public company and part of a private enterprise. This mixture is also extremely dangerous because there have been years and years of depreciation in the public works and profit sharing in the private work. Well, it's perfectly clear that this is not a fair way of doing things. The government and some say that there is no legal basis and I don't know what it is, but the decision in the Constitutional Court and so on and so forth. How fair is that? Is there a legal basis in the law to stop us from having 120,000 unemployed? Is there a legal basis in the constitution that we have a regiment of poor people in our country? There is a legal basis that our workers and workers, I even know about trading systems – among them, of course, our best neighbour and clearly the other companies that have come to our country – walk two hours early in the morning and two hours later from work but cannot count? They can't. They work for free. So every smallest attempt to prevent certain things, and this one is intended to do so, should be supported. After all, it will be now three, four months of empty running, where nothing will happen in this area. The leadership of the company Low Construction Ptuj, which I can specifically talk about, which went bankrupt, will prove tomorrow and can prove that it did not go bankrupt because of the bad business, because of the machinations that we are supposed to be doing, from the supervisory board to the management itself. It went bankrupt because of SCT, because of Vegrad, because of other major companies. 80 people, 80 people are on the road today. Why? Because they were doing some work, and they weren't paid for that job because they were subcontractors. The big ones who got the money didn't pay the subcontractors because they were solving their liquidity problems, one way or another. But there are even worse cases. You set up a change company and decide to do some business. You get a job, you take subcontractors, you don't pay those subcontractors, and when the job's done, you get the company bankrupt. All those who worked did not get paid, and this also happens on state projects, such as entrepreneurs who worked on a highway program, or the case of Stožica. Some told me that they had to hire a loan to work and that the loan would be remunerated in 2020. Then they'll get paid, not cash, no, but in those rooms they built themselves in the Contingencies. Please! Such and similar ladies and gentlemen should not be cut off, but rather cut off. See how many companies that are owned by the majority of the public, how many companies through various funds, the Courts and so on, did not pay the workers of pension and disability insurance! Today, when they are exhausted and so on, they have years, both of them, and they do not have the pension and disability insurance paid, and of course they have brought the company — where? Yes, of course, in bankruptcy. And these gentlemen today are setting up parallel new businesses without any shame – what is this? Has anyone ever been ashamed to do any harm to anyone in this country in an unfair, unfair way?Oh, my God! This will now be a sample, even now some prominent politicians support it with all four and wear it on the altar. We want to end this so that it doesn't happen to anyone that gentlemen like me, I don't know, I remember the mutual, let's say what Mr. Jaklič wanted to do with each other, what he was doing with Ljubljana's pharmacies. Nothing, no legislation applies to him anywhere, says he is preparing for the Minister of Health's ministerial chair to privatise everything. Mr Pavček is a financial minister, because he seems to have excellent conditions for this. But I've heard that two boys are preparing to be Minister for the establishment of businesses abroad. You know, we have to end this. We just can't let this happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Mr. Zvonko Lah has the floor. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Aloysius Potočnik. [[He's not here.]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj, you have five seconds, do you give up? Thank you. Mr. Andrej Magajna. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Bogdan Barovich. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Gregor Golobich. [[He's not here.]] Mag. Andrej Vizjak. [[He's not here.]] Yes, mag. Radovan Žerjav, on behalf of the proposer? You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President, for concluding this debate. I firmly believe that sometimes a radical step must be taken to prevent an anomaly. I absolutely agree with Mrs Bredo Pečan when she said that even in Yugoslavia, which we often had to say so bad, there were some good solutions, and it would be good to follow the good practices and good solutions that were there. I believe that was arranged at the time. In normal countries, these principles are clear to make a clear distinction between what is right and what is wrong. And that is exactly what we want to do with this condition in setting up companies with this proposal for a company law, so let's make it clear and say: that's okay, that's not right, and for what's wrong, they just have to answer. And there must be, according to my assessment, at least risks, both between employees and those responsible for the management of businesses, i.e. managers, last but not least supervisors – we have talked little about supervisors today – that they also bear some particular risk that, at such or otherwise bad exit to an undertaking, they may be carrying this risk and are responsible, not least when a bad scenario happens to come before a court and say that if this happened due to market conditions, we are not to blame, and we can drive things forward as nothing has been. However, if something was wrong, I think it is necessary to stop such entrepreneurs because they are bad for this society. And let me say one more thing. We are not simply eliminating this possibility of establishing new companies in parallel. It must be said that there are micro-enterprises, these are companies up to 9 employees, an exception. So, what we're saying is, yeah, okay, let's play with small businesses. And maybe something goes wrong and we'll say okay. However, there must be an option. But someone's playing with a company where there's a hundred, five hundred, a thousand people, they can't be. That doesn't work, and it's irresponsible. So let's let entrepreneurs play in a sandbox with shovels and rakes, as they call it, but we don't want them playing in serious construction sites where there's a lot of money in the game and not least a lot of fate for employees and workers. And these entrepreneurs, who play with large and important companies for this society, must bear some risk, and in particular bear one large measure of responsibility. Once again, the free enterprise initiative of some has put this country at risk, and we must be aware of that. The free enterprise initiative, after long and long periods, without any obstacles, even with the encouragement of anyone, has put this country at risk. I think that in the coming years, days and months we will have to do a lot of things to make certain clear frameworks, what is right and wrong in this society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u39	Thank you very much. He wants the word "government"? [[He doesn't want to.]] Proposer, you still have some time. You want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] This concludes the debate on the proposal for a law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 16. On the other hand, the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Act on Primary School in the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government, Minister of Education and Sport Dr Igor Lukšić.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u40	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament! We have before us a proposal for amendments to the Basic School Act, which is very highly aligned with all factors. I talked to my parents about this in person, talked to the unions, talked to the principals and with the expert in the White Paper, and so forth. We have also had some discussions with some Members, Members of Parliament, including the opposition, so that we have a good proposal before us. What's he bringing? It brings things that all these groups believe are good for us to change. So it's not a big change, it's a minimum correction, because our school is good, well organised, and it's the right thing to keep it that way. It is a different description of certain objects, so now we no longer have sports education, art education and music education, but it is sport, art, music art. With this we have tried to show that education takes place throughout the school, in all subjects, not only in these subjects, and it is therefore justified to think about the type of evaluation that is even uniform in all subjects. The next issue is compulsory first foreign language teaching in the second grade and optional teaching of that language in the first grade of primary school. So we move foreign languages to first grade optionally and mandatoryly to second grade. At the same time, the compulsory second foreign language in the last triad is transformed into an optional foreign language. The second foreign language becomes optional from the fourth grade onwards. By doing so, we want to show that there is already a need for emphasis in primary school on foreign languages, even more so than it has been in force so far. Optional selection items are introduced for students in schools and thus there is an additional opportunity to learn content of particular interest. First class students may choose the first foreign language as optional choice. In the fourth, fifth and sixth classes, students may choose, among other foreign languages and other optional selection items. The student shall decide on a voluntary basis for the instruction of optional selection subjects. According to the news, students have the opportunity to choose three hours of elective education per week, and with the consent of their parents, they can also choose four hours. Change for students is a greater option of choice. We have been introducing a numerical evaluation since the third grade forward, not only after the end of the first triad, but in the third class, because we have identified all of us in our discussions with parents and teachers that it is necessary to increase the complexity. This made it clear that a good school is also a challenging school. We only introduce two forms of differentiation in the eighth and ninth classes, as a lesson in smaller groups. The next change is in the national knowledge check, which we move here to the eighth grade, so it exists in the third, sixth, eighth and optional in the ninth grade. Here we intend, and procedures are already under way to change the way knowledge is tested, by eliminating some very, say, military procedures in this evaluation and bringing this evaluation more into the function of raising the quality of work after school. Here, as I said before, we have a high level of agreement between teachers, principals and parents, because the national knowledge check can't possibly just have a purpose to collect grades in the end, grades in schools, but it has to go back to the classrooms. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Institute of Education and thus improve the quality of Slovenian education. [[...]] Members and Members of Parliament, please accept the proposed amendments in the proposed form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as a parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Chairman of the Committee of Mags. Majdi Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u42	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Mr Minister, Mr Director, Members and Members of Parliament! At its 34th session, on 5 October, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth considered the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act submitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The Legislative and Legal Service made comments on the eleven articles of the bill. The Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, in its opinion, supported the bill and drew attention to the excessive number of regulations relating to the school system and causing its skeletality. The oral opinion was presented by Dr Zoltan Jan. The Committee also received comments from the Activities of the Councils of Parents of Ljubljana primary schools. In the course of the course of business, the amendments were tabled by the SD and LDS Group to the three articles and the SDS Group to the fifteenth article. Dr Igor Lukšič, representative of the proposers, gave an introductory explanation of the draft law. He said that by adopting a proposal for a law, the knowledge of pupils in the third class would be assessed numerically with estimates of one to five, and that the description of certain subjects would be different. Instead of two compulsory foreign languages, the subject introduces compulsory first foreign language teaching in the second class and optional foreign language teaching in the first grade of the primary school. Students will have the opportunity to choose three hours of elective education per week, and with the consent of their parents, optional selection courses will be introduced for four hours. Gifted students and students with learning problems will no longer be counted among students with special needs and will be treated separately. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that their comments were mostly taken into account in the amendments tabled by the members of the Coalition. In the context of the discussion on individual articles, the members and members of the Committee and the other invited members paid the highest attention to Article 3, Article 6, Article 7 and Article 22 of the Law, which provides for the education of specially gifted pupils, compulsory and selective subjects and forms of differentiation. For gifted students, the school makes substantive and organizational adjustments that follow the characteristics or areas of talent in the individual student. In identifying these students, the school only determines which of the pupils reaches the upper 10% of the population according to certain criteria and does not classify them as specially gifted. Attention was also paid by the members and members of the Committee to Article 22 of the proposal for a law which transposes the decision on the implementation of forms of differentiation into the competence of the teaching assembly as a professional body of the school. So far, the form of differentiation has been decided by the Board of Schools as an administrative body and a new solution highlights the competence of the decision and the increased autonomy of the profession. After the discussion on the individual articles of the bill and the amendments tabled, the Committee adopted the amendments of the two coalition groups to Articles 3, 35 and 39, but did not adopt the amendments of the SDS Group to Articles 5, 6, 7, 12, 15 and so on, to all eleven articles. In accordance with Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. You have also received the amended bill as an integral part of the report, and you can also read more about the debate that has been held. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u43	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the SDS Group, Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u44	Good-bye! We will not support the Novele Law on Primary School in our Group. While the Minister says that these are minor corrections, we estimate that this is not the case, even as regards the second foreign language; something about this below. Although the law also contains some good news, we estimate that there are several bad ones. We have tabled quite a few amendments that have not been adopted on the committee, so, as we say, we estimate that the law is not appropriate. In some parts it is quite detailed and also sets out things that could be defined by the rules or are also determined by the rules already, because, of course, such a way does not mean greater autonomy of teachers, but if we prescribe virtually every thing to them and even determine the procedure, when, how something should be hot and so on. In 2007, we introduced a second foreign language in the last triad, because at the time it was an assessment or data showing that children were mass-declared for another foreign language within the selection content, because they are obviously so aware of what this means for their future and that they may have to look for employment in one of the European countries and, of course, the knowledge of foreign language is very important for that. This second foreign language was introduced, and last year we translated the implementation, the final implementation, because after three years of the introduction of the second foreign language, the Minister found that things were not going according to the expected order and that the main problem was that there was a shortage of professional staff. At that time, the minister's statement was that 260 teachers were missing. That is why we have then moved the implementation of another foreign language instead of this school year for two years. At that time, questions were raised, or at that time they were to consider whether such an arrangement was even good. Of course, it was expected that sooner or later we would have some rapid change or change of course, because the apparently Ministry had estimated that this solution was not good, and after our assessment, after three years of introduction and implementation, it was difficult to say whether something was good or not. We have introduced many things into the school system with birth and other cramps, and of course time then things are arranged, analyzed, and maybe complemented where necessary. Even we could have read that it was for an international survey of PISA, where it turned out that Slovenian students in the field of reading competences were lagging behind the average of OECD countries, and one of the culprits or the question was whether the other foreign language might be responsible. We estimate no, but the ministry seems to think otherwise. I mentioned that the minister said there was a lack of professional staff. We wanted the committee to know what had changed in that time, how much we had gotten this frame, whether things were ready now. We have not received these answers, so we have also proposed a public presentation of the opinions. This could not be done because of the short duration or termination of the mandate. Moreover, in comparison with the introduction of the law, the minister gave us a majority of the countries that have a compulsory foreign language, yet we decided on a different path. What's good is we're definitely moving the first foreign language to the lower classes. We have supported this all the time and we agree with it, but we are re-estimating that we are doing something in half. In fact, it is stipulated that compulsory first foreign language instruction is introduced in the second class and optional in the first. Or should we make it mandatory in the first place, because what is optional, of course, does not happen, somewhere it will, somewhere it will not, and we are again making a difference between children. What remains to be said may be a different description of certain objects in order to go beyond the division into so-called educational and educational subjects. The Minister says that this is because all subjects are also educational if they have this on behalf or not, but some civil society organisations have also pointed out this, so it may be necessary to consider this. In short, we will vote against it in the parliamentary group because we estimate that we are giving our children a bad passport with these changes in the second foreign language.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u45	Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u46	Dear Members and Members! After a bad ten months before us, the Law on Primary School was reopened, which is the eighth most recent novel since the entry into force of the basic law, which according to members of the Slovenian People's Party is already an alarm for the preparation of a new primary school law that would completely renovate the primary school system and thus improve its quality and effectiveness. The changes contained in the proposed novelties are quite extensive. While it is difficult to say that they are not necessary, the question arises about their relevance, as the proposed changes will directly or indirectly affect students, teachers and parents. The question is whether such frequent legislative changes that require constant adjustment of all stakeholders involved in it are useful and actually help to improve the quality of the learning process, or which only leads to greater red tape and the handling of side-related issues, which otherwise support the learning process, but their link to improving its quality is weak. As the Minister has already said, the essential changes introduced by the proposed amendment, the re-implementation of the numbering evaluation in the third grade of the primary school, are optional selection items, and national knowledge testing is also applied in the third and eighth classes, and the status of talented pupils is specifically regulated. The key changes concern, however, the introduction of foreign languages in particular, since, following the proposed amendment, the first foreign language as a compulsory subject was to be applied in the second class and the second foreign language as an optional selection object from the fourth class onward. Let me remind you that at the end of last year we adopted an amendment to the Basic School Act, which, for two years, we have postponed the implementation of the second foreign language in the seventh grade of primary school. Following the original arrangements adopted in 2007, such arrangements were to be implemented in the school year 2011/2012. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we ask whether the novel has been mentioned to mislead us Members and the general public, since there was no talk at the time about drafting a change of law that will completely change the system of teaching foreign languages in primary school. The proposed regime therefore introduces early learning of another foreign language, but the question is whether this will help to improve the general knowledge of foreign languages among students, since the second foreign language should only be applied as an optional choice. This means that in the seventh grade, when the second foreign language is compulsory for all pupils, they will be in an unequal position, as some will come to this class with three years of forewording of another foreign language, while others will choose from the fourth to the sixth classes one of the other optional selection items. [[...]] In short, it's our assessment that things are too small. As far as I am concerned about optional selection items, Members of the Slovenian People's Party ask ourselves about the meaning of the proposed regulation of these objects. In our view, they will only be burdening the subject even more, while the effects of their introduction are questionable, as the burden on pupils who are already burdened practically from morning to evening will only increase. Apparently, the game and the rest of the child are just a dream from the past. Finally, let me touch on the national knowledge checks introduced by this knowledge proposal in the third and eighth classes, which will undoubtedly put more pressure on the students and their parents, which is why we are seriously concerned in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. We understand the Ministry's intention that this is one of the ways to compare the quality of the education process between schools, but it is important to be aware that students reflect the effectiveness of their teachers, so we believe that the evaluation of the quality of the work of teachers should be introduced in particular. We will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The following changes will be made with amendments to the current law. Early compulsory instruction of the first foreign language from the second class will be introduced, offering the first foreign language as an optional subject to children in the first class and the possibility of teaching the second foreign language as an optional selection subject from the fourth class onward. We agree that early learning of the foreign language plays a very important role in acquiring competences, communicating in foreign language, learning and later in adulthood. Studies also show that children are most susceptible to foreign language learning at an appropriate school and early school transition, and evaluations of current regulations have shown that two compulsory foreign languages are too demanding for a large proportion of pupils, so in the last triad the compulsory teaching of only one foreign language will be compulsory. However, the second foreign language is retained as a choice between the selection items. The numbering is now moving to the third grade in the fourth grade, which we think is appropriate, since in fact second grade is also the end of child education, and this somehow starts serious work in school. The latter also requires an appropriate way of assessing achievements with more concrete criteria and indicators, which are, of course, numerical estimates. I believe this will make it easier for teachers and parents. The novelty is also in the supply of optional selection items, which are essentially part of an extended programme and which is based on voluntary integration. With the introduction of such subjects, there is an opportunity for students to learn more about content of particular interest. This aims to create conditions for the development of specific interests and competences of pupils. In our Group of Members, we also agree that the school is in nature defined as part of a mandatory programme. We also have a positive view of changes in the area of national knowledge verification, which will be more from now on. By placing a different national knowledge check, options will be given to use the results to monitor the quality of the educational work and to diagnose the knowledge acquired in a timely manner with the possibility of using these results for analysis and action to improve the quality of knowledge. The new law also focuses on the children of expatriates and natives, who are governed by the right to study and additional education from the Slovenian language and culture. It also provides for the right to learn Slovenian language and culture and to preserve mother tongue and culture for children in Slovenia whose mother tongue is not Slovenian. The proposed amendments implement a number of objectives and principles. As they go towards ensuring greater quality of knowledge acquisition in primary school, ensuring conditions for greater equity in primary education and ensuring conditions for optimal and balanced development of individuals, we will also support the amendment in the DeSUS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u49	On behalf of the SNS Group, Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u50	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! The proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act is certainly a matter of legislative regulation of a very important area concerning the vast number of Slovenians and Slovenes, and necessarily requires the difficult coordination of various issues, views and expectations of all with primary education of connected or involved persons. And also in the Slovenian National Party, we miss a broader public presentation of the opinions of the interested public in the process of adopting the law. Unfortunately, the views gained so far on the relatively few target groups involved and also on the extent of public participation have not yet covered all outstanding issues and outstanding solutions. When we address the area of the school system in the Republic of Slovenia, we must be aware of the fact that it is a segment of the social life of national interest, as it is an investment in education and education at the core of providing and increasing the development potential of Slovenian society. In short, it is by no means a marginal law and must therefore be taken seriously enough to deal with and processed subtlely. In the Slovenian National Party, we believe that, despite some good solutions, a wider public hearing may also lead to different solutions that will ensure the internationally comparable education of Slovenian schoolchildren. Frankly, Slovenian schools are not bad, but we forget that, like in many other areas, we are being rushed to the left and right of those nations that once saw a pattern and an example for many. As a very positive and in line with the support of foreign language learning, we support provisions that introduce early learning of the first foreign language, i.e. already in the second class. As another positive solution, there are certainly changes that offer a larger number of optional selection courses, which will certainly provide conditions for the development of different, specific interests of individual pupils. We also agree with the introduction of numerical evaluation, although opinions are also being fucked here, but some are fundamentally opposed. It's possible to politicize the matter. And also with provisions on national knowledge verification. However, we have a different view on the optional teaching of a foreign language, which is supposed to be introduced as an optional selection subject in fourth and not seventh grade. In short, even though we have certain reservations in the Slovenian National Party to some of the solutions in the current bill proposal and we were expecting a wider public debate, we will still support the bill, because in some ways it represents a step forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u51	Mr Miran Jerič has the floor on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u52	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President of the National Assembly. Fellow Members, fellow Members, representatives of the government! In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Basic School Act. The new law highlights the principle of equal access to knowledge for all students. The solutions provided by law are reflected both in the substantive and organizational fields. The bill introduces early teaching of the first foreign language and teaching of the second foreign language as an optional selection subject. Instead of two compulsory foreign languages, the subject introduces compulsory first foreign language teaching in the second class and optional foreign language teaching in the first grade of the primary school. In addition, the proposal introduces a numerical evaluation of the knowledge of pupils in the third class. Otherwise, naming certain subjects will go beyond dividing into so-called educational and educational subjects in primary school. Students will have the opportunity to choose three hours of elective education per week, with the consent of their parents for four hours, while also introducing optional selection courses. With the introduction of optional selection courses, there is an opportunity for students to learn more about content of particular interest. The law also respects the principle of rationality and sequentiality, as the proposed amendments will be implemented gradually, following previous preparations. As it is said, in the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we will complement the proposal of the Basic School Act, which includes the amendments adopted on the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u53	On behalf of the SD Group, he shall have the word mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u54	Thank you again for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Mr. Director! The Group of Social Democrats will support the amendment of the Basic School Act, which is slightly less extensive than the one adopted in 2007. If I take a panoramic view of what we see in the parliamentary group the difference between the adoption of the Basic School Act in 2007 and the adoption now, the difference would seem obvious. Already in the alternative government programme, as well as in the coalition agreement later, we have written down the requirement that changes in school legislation should be based on previous professional research, analysis, views. This novel has also been achieved, achieved. It cannot be overlooked that there is a white book in public debate, and this is also the basis for amending the Basic School Act. I mention this in particular because there has ever been an obvious fact that there has been a public debate and that there has been a lack of demand for different target groups, what they believe about the proposed solutions. I stress, in the context of e-democracy, that in the context of the discussions on the White Paper, the professional public has spoken and the proposed solutions are still being put forward. It is understandable that we will not always have the opportunity of legislators to get into the hands of the uniform views of the profession on individual solutions, because the profession has different views on individual issues. However, I would like to draw attention to some things that often appear as a thought or an obvious thought and that are largely rejected by the profession. In fact, the first clue goes to the point of how burdensome schooling students are. If we look at the burden table of our students, the annual burden compared to the burden on other countries, then we have to say that our students are one of the least burdened. See for example: in 19 countries of the European Union aged between 7 and 8 years 802 hours, we have 621. At the age of 9-11, the average is 847, with 721. The average age range between 12 and 14 years is 928, with only 791. And, in particular, this shifting number of hours is also a reserve that can also look at what else can be done to ensure that our students achieve better results in international knowledge reviews. With regard to the public presentation of opinions in the National Assembly, I would just like to point out that we have received the law in the ordinary procedure, which means that those who now point to the absence of a broader debate and a public presentation of opinions would have enough time to require this to require a general discussion not least, but none of this has been the case. To request a public presentation of opinions after second reading, when the law has already taken its final form on the working body and was only opened in three articles for public presentation of opinions, the question is the rationality and usefulness of such action. There could be a lot more to talk about, but since the fundamental substantive changes were mentioned by many speakers before me, let me tell you where we see the Social Democrats further improving this law. Greater selectivity, greater emphasis on children and parents deciding whether they also want to have more choice. All of these are, in addition to many other things, the advantages of this law, so we will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u55	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, this is a second defence proposal for a law on valuation and recognition of education within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. There is no minister to further explain the proposal. [[...]] The proposal was also addressed by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u56	Your Honor! We have before us the proposal for a law on evaluation and recognition of education, which replaces the law in force with a slightly changed name. This is the Law on Recognition and Evaluation of Education, which has been in force since 2005. The current law introduced the duality of recognition and evaluation of education based on the model of regulation in most European countries. The duality is reflected in the procedures for the recognition of two fundamental rights, namely the right to continue education at a higher or equal level and the right to pursue the profession for which the holder has been trained. In order to recognise education for the purpose of employment in the Republic of Slovenia, the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology is competent, while in order to recognise the person with whom the foreign education charter is intended to continue his studies with us, the competent educational institution to which such an individual is enrolled. Recognition procedures shall be conducted in accordance with the ZUP, the result of which, of course, is an administrative decision deciding on the rights and obligations of the holder of the foreign instrument. The essential feature of the proposed law is the transition from the concept of recognition of foreign education and the determination of equivalence to the concept of acceptance or the evaluation of foreign education. It is undeniable that the holder of a foreign education instrument has already acquired certain rights by completing education, and it is also illogical for us to redefine this acquired right in the administrative procedure. The proposed law removes the administrative procedure for the recognition and evaluation of education, which simplifies procedures and removes administrative obstacles. The bill therefore focuses on education in the country of origin and only on a possible significant difference between the original and comparable education in Slovenia, which will be found in the opinion on foreign education. The procedure for the equivalence of the foreign title of professional education or of the scientific title shall also be laid down and the use of a professional or scientific address shall be governed as such address may be used in accordance with the rules of the State which granted the title. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we estimate that the proposed changes are good enough and necessary and will improve the treatment of foreign education, so we will not oppose the adoption of the proposed law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u57	Mr Franz Jurša has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u58	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! This is a new law which, in accordance with the Convention on the Recognition of Higher Education Qualifications, is aimed at a fairer treatment of education abroad without seeking equivalence with Slovenia. The new law will remove procedural barriers for investors, as the administrative procedure is no longer applicable as it has so far been issued and foreign education has been classified or equivalent to Slovenian education. According to the DeSUS Group's assessment, the new law passes from the concept of recognition of foreign education and the determination of equivalence to the concept of acceptance of education by issuing an opinion on foreign education or the adoption of rights already acquired by completed education abroad. This means that the new law focuses on education in the country or [[Incomprehensible]] the possible significant difference between origin and comparable education in the country where the applicant wishes to apply his/her education. Members of the DeSUS Group will support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u59	On behalf of the SNS Group, Mr Miran Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u60	Thank you for your word, chairman. Say hello again to all present! The proposed law on evaluation and recognition of education is in fact a kind of technical law, it is said that it is a matter of regulating procedures for recognition abroad of acquired education, and of issuing instead of a decision only an opinion on foreign education. In short, in accordance with the guidelines adopted by the National Higher Education Programme, no longer identify or carry out nostration procedures in the classical sense, it will be formally established abroad, which certainly represents a simplified procedure and the elimination of any unnecessary administrative and administrative barriers for the applicant and for the administration itself. The bill has also been easily and quickly addressed at the meeting of the parent working body, all articles, amendments adopted without further consideration or controversy, so that the proposal has been unanimously adopted and also accepted by the Slovenian national party, which is not specific here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u61	On behalf of the LDS Group, Mr Miran Jerič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Fellow Members, fellow Members, representatives of the government! The main purpose of the proposal for a law on evaluation and recognition of education is to change the current regime of the system of recognition and evaluation of education in order to facilitate evaluation, education and fairer treatment of foreign education. In addressing education, the principles of equal treatment, transparency, accessibility and fairness and the principle of mutual trust and quality assurance of educational systems and the use of transparency of tools should be taken into account in a consistent manner. The law regulates the evaluation of education and establishes a body for the evaluation of education and regulates the procedure and criteria and establishes a body for the recognition of foreign education for the purpose of further education. It is also important that the law facilitates the procedure for investors as it removes a number of administrative and procedural obstacles. The amended bill, which includes the amendments adopted by the Committee, will be supported in the Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u63	Mr Janez Kikelj has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u64	Mr President, colleagues and colleagues! In the current term of office, we have addressed a number of legislative proposals in the National Assembly, which have been endorsed by the agreement of all Members and Members. A statistical review would probably show that this was even the majority. These were legislative acts that did not have any charm of political attractiveness, and their adoption had great significance for the part of citizens and citizens of Slovenia. We can also include in this group the proposal for a law on evaluation and recognition of education, which was adopted without discussion and without a vote. Although politically less interesting, the legal text is very important in the new circumstances of major changes in the global higher education area. Under the law, an individual who has been educated abroad will be able to exercise the right to continue education more easily or gain an opinion more easily for the purposes of applying for employment. The increased mobility of students and the labour force, which we have witnessed over the last few years, requires adjustments to administratively burdensome and long-term procedures for the recognition of education, which are the rest of the 7-year-old law. Social Democrats welcome the transition from outdated, longer-term and more expensive concepts of recognition and the equivalency of programmes to a more flexible and open-ended concept of acceptance abroad of acquired education. Recognition for the purpose of continuing education will be decided by educational institutions and an opinion for the purpose of employment will be given by ENIC-NARIC. Thus, the individual will no longer depend on finding a comparable programme in Slovenia, but his education for the purpose of employment or continuing education will be judged from the point of view of comparability. This ensures a more consistent protection of the rights acquired at foreign educational institutions. With regard to evaluation and recognition of education, it is also worth noting that the opening of the European Higher Education Area has increased the number of different instruments. Contrary to the opinion of the holders, it often happens that some of them do not have some formal value, even though they have been published by universities. It is usually a document of lifelong education which cannot be subject to an assessment for the purpose of employment or the continuation of education. It would therefore be useful, within the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, to establish mechanisms to ensure that individuals participating in such or other education abroad are properly informed. We will support the proposed law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u65	Mr Ivan Grill has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members of the Ministry! As we encourage the internationalisation of the Slovenian school space in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and since this proposal for a law that we are currently considering, at least in part, follows these principles, we will support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party. This law is also prepared in accordance with the proposal of the National Higher Education Programme 2011-2020. This law facilitates the evaluation of education and fairer treatment of foreign education in its solutions and, of course, establishes more efficient and fair treatment systems for foreign education, taking into account the changing education systems and the increasing diversity of study programmes, in the European space, globally and also in Slovenia. This law, by means of these solutions, is essential for deregulation and reduction of procedural burdens and, in so far as it is extremely important, it is essential to remove bureaucratic obstacles. This also facilitates procedures for the exercise of individual rights. This law follows the principles of the Slovenian Democratic Party, as I said in the introduction, and we will, of course, also support this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u67	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made in accordance with the timing of the session of the assembly in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. On the day-to-day basis, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision amending the decision establishing the University of Primorska. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. The proposal for a decree was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Sarah Wheeler. [[She's not here.]] Mr Miran Jerič on behalf of the LDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u68	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Fellow Members and fellow Members! The amendments to the Decree establishing the University of Primorsk follow the principles of both the Higher Education Act and the resolutions on the National Higher Education Programme. The main solutions in the decree are mainly related to the creation of a new member of the University of Primorska, namely the Faculty of the Building Environment, and the definition of the study area for it, namely architecture, urbanism and construction. It also regulates the establishment of another new member of the university, the University Library. By decree, the Institute for Natural and Technical Sciences is renamed the Institute of Andrej Marusič. This decree also provides that the members of the university shall be renamed by deleting the local names and by supplementing the names of the members in the Italian language. In accordance with the Regulation establishing and applying the classification system for education and training, the decree provides for the translation of the study areas. The Parliamentary Group of the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will support the proposal for a decree amending the Decree establishing the University of Primorska.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u69	On behalf of the SD Group, Dr. Luka Juri shall have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u70	The university is a living space that is developing, and it is therefore normal to change all the time and to change its official basic documents, that is to say, in this case a decree. The essence of this decree, in addition to some others, is mostly formality, the creation of a new member, the Faculty of Built Environment, which is very welcome in the area of Slovenian Istria, because it allows for a new study direction in the Slovenian space and a link between what are human activities and technological activities, with the environment in which it lives, a certain approach that also takes into account the need for sustainable development and a natural, comprehensive development cycle. In addition, the establishment of the University Library, which we hope is only the first step towards the establishment of a core library in the area of the entire Slovenian Istria, which will link the potentials of all the library materials currently located in this area. And also very important for the university as a whole and for the university only: renaming or raising the University of Health to the university level. It is therefore a few changes that give the University of Primorsk an even wider new dimension. This is also followed by an annual increase in the number of students in all universities and a general interest in higher education in the northern Adriatic region, namely in Slovenia, which brings a different dimension and complements those two important dimensions for Slovenian space, namely, the oldest university, University of Ljubljana, and University of Maribor, which gives not only Dravsko, but the entire Stajerska space an important role. So we support the Social Democrats' decision on the transformation of the University of Primorska. In this decree we see another positive step in the development of the University of Primorsk, which we all want to continue to work successfully and happily together. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u71	Mr Ivan Grill has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u72	Thank you again very much for your word. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will support the proposal for a decree amending the Decree establishing the University of Primorsk. It is a matter of amending an act that allows the creation of new members of the University of Primorsk, the Faculty of the Building Environment and the University Library, which we welcome as it is a matter of enriching this university. In this decree there is also a statusal transformation of the School of Health to the Faculty of Health Sciences. Furthermore, the decree also adds to the names of members in Italian, which again points to the openness of Slovenia to a minority. And what seems to us to be extremely important is that this Decision also contributes to the rationalisation of costs, as this removes the right to reimbursement of costs to members of the boards of public higher education institutions. On the basis of all the amendments mentioned above, there is no reason not to support this decision in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we will therefore support it by voting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u73	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. No amendments were adopted by the parent working body to the motion for a decree, so the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. The decision on the motion for a decree will be made in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 20. On the day-to-day basis, this is a re-decision on the Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Medicinal Law. At its 34th extraordinary meeting on 29 September 2011, the Council of State requested that, pursuant to the third indent of Article 97(1) of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the Council of State, before the announcement, decide again on the Law amending and supplementing the Law on Medicine. In order to explain my request to the Council of State, I give the floor to the representative of the Council of State to Mr Drag Žura.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u74	Hello! Thank you so much for saying that. Respected and respected! In explaining the veto voted by the Council of State, I regret to start in 2007, even at the time of the mandate of the previous Government, when the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia first voted on a veto to a law similar to what we are dealing with today, with the following explanation: that there is no adequate separation of school and complementary medicine, the separation should be too strict; it was pointed out that there is a lack of rationality in the establishment of the Chamber of Medicine and the lack of consistency with the views of the operators. Unfortunately, the State Council was not heard at the time. Nevertheless, the Ministry of Health launched its own initiative in early 2009 with the preparation of a new proposal for a law, a proposal for a law on medical activities, which included all those concerned. The draft Law on Medical Activities, which regulates the area in its entirety, was coordinated at the end of 2009 between the Government, the performers and the experts, and the coalition, although the Secretary of State, Dr Ergen, denied this to the competent committee of the National Assembly. But let me quote Dr. Andrejo Črnak Meglič, who, at the time of the adoption of the law under the position of the Social Democrats Group, said: "This novel was coordinated by the coalition, as well as by the professional public, with which we achieved a relatively high degree of consensus, which is supposed to be a comprehensive legal regime in the field of medicine." However, to the surprise of the Group of Social Democrats, a completely different bill came into the parliamentary procedure, which does not go fully into the field of medicinal activities, but simply introduces the necessary changes. As Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič said, in April 2011, the Ministry of Health introduced a completely new text into the public debate, this is the specific Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicine, almost a year and a half after the actual law on medicinal activities was harmonised. The explanation for this was never given. On the basis of the facts presented by the Slovenian Homeopathic Society, the Association of Physicians and the opinion of the Deputy Ombudsman, on the basis of the facts presented on its committee responsible in August 2011, it was concluded that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medicine Act, which was introduced in June this year in the legislative procedure and is under consideration today, has no substantive link to the proposal for a medical act prepared and coordinated in 2009. However, it should be pointed out here, with the exception of one, that that health activity law also solves the problem that the Republic of Slovenia has already received a reminder from the European Commission because it has not yet properly transposed the provisions of the 2006 Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on services in the internal market. The National Council also notes that the proposed extension of the range of persons who are able to perform medical activities to foreign natural and legal persons creates a discriminatory situation in relation to domestic natural and legal persons who wish to provide these services, in particular doctors. For foreign natural and legal persons, the provision of medical services in Slovenia, which may be provided abroad, contrary to Slovenian legislation, could also be carried out by doctors. Slovenian doctors who, in the case of a medical activity, are not licensed to carry out a medical service or may even be deprived of a medical service are thus discriminated against in relation to colleagues from abroad who do not have such prohibitions at home. Again, the essential problems in the field of medicine are not solved. Slovenia is the only one that strictly distinguishes medical activity from medical. The opinion of the SD Group, which I mentioned at the outset, is not alone at all, quite the opposite. All the views of the parties or their parliamentary groups represented in this assembly were to support the Law on Medical Activities and to adopt the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicine. And there is more than a legitimate question here, why one is spoken and something else is done. There is no way we can agree to the "extortion" that we are facing if you do not adopt this law, but now you will be responsible for the punishment that I am promised by the European Commission because the European Directive is not properly transposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u75	It requires that the Health Committee be treated as a working mother. In order to present the opinion of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President, Mags. Andrei Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u76	Well-welcome, distinguished president, representative of the Council of State, colleague and colleague! At its 10th regular meeting on 13 October, the Health Committee considered the request of the Council of State that the National Assembly decide again on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Act submitted to the National Assembly by the Government at its 31st regular meeting of 23 September 2011. Mr Drago Jura, representative of the Council of State, made it very clear at the meeting of the Committee on Health, and explained that the State Council had considered the amended proposal at its 40th meeting on 14 September and had not supported it. He further detailed the reasons for the request for a re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicine and stressed, as he had already said before, that the Law on Medicine had not been properly implemented since its adoption in 2007. This did not result in the establishment of a medical chamber, but not all the necessary sub-laws were adopted to ensure the transfer of public powers to the Chamber. The Republic of Slovenia has therefore also received a reminder from the European Commission due to the inadequately transposed decisions of the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council. A number of laws should be amended to improve cooperation and the link between traditional and complementary medicine in the field of treatment. Therefore, the approach to the drafting of a new system law in the field of medicine, according to the Council of State and experts involved in the drafting of this law, would be more appropriate and appropriate. That is why they still call on the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, of course, the Ministry of Health to do so without delay, and the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Law should not be adopted. The Health Committee also gave an opinion on the Legislative and Legal Service, which stressed that the reasons for the request of the Council of State to reconsider the Law and Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicine are essentially of a substantive nature and therefore the Legislative and Legal Service does not determine its competence to do so. The adopted law has only transposed the Internal Market Services Directive, and if there is a decision to be able to carry out a medical service and to carry out a medical activity at the same time, the regulation of the Medical Services Act will have to be adapted. Mr Ivan Eržen, State Secretary of the Ministry of Health, reiterated that the law aligns our legal order with the directive. In addition, procedural provisions concerning the professional supervision and supervision of the implementation of the law are being laid down in more detail and invited members of the Committee to support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Law. In the debate, the members of the Committee considered that the directive was properly transposed and the conditions for the implementation of the applicable law were put in place. At the Committee on Health, a decision was also adopted on the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health Act, once again to allow the Ministry to examine all options and also propose appropriate solutions. The decision was thus retransmitted to the competent institutes. Whether we need a new system law for medical activities should be decided and proposed by the new government or by the Minister of Health. Following the discussion, the Committee also voted on the opinion and found that the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Law was appropriate and appropriate for further consideration. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u77	For reasons of opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Dr. Ivan Ergen, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u78	Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! We have already said several times that during the two-year period when we have prepared a new system law on medicine, we have reached a high level of agreement between medical operators and the Government, including the parliamentary groups, but when we have come so far as to put the law into parliamentary procedure, we have found that there are, nevertheless, such disagreements, in particular on the name of the law that Members wanted to resolve earlier, so that they can provide appropriate support to the law. Since this has not happened quickly enough, we have been forced at the Ministry of Health to propose a different procedure to the Government, namely to exclude from the existing law, which, as you all emphasize, is substantively agreed and appropriate, those parts which are crucial for the further regulation of medicinal activities in Slovenia. This is already a compliance with the Service Directive, and another, which is even more important, is that we have also regulated how the Ministry of Health, which currently cannot issue this permit, can issue a medical authorisation. In this way, if the law is adopted, it will be possible for all who are currently carrying out medicinal activities in Slovenia, even legally, if they fulfil the relevant conditions, to issue an appropriate authorisation. For the time being, no one who carries out a medical activity has this permission and is therefore working in black. And one more thing that's important. We are in charge of the implementation of this activity, so that once the licences are issued they can ensure this appropriate supervision. We committed ourselves at the time when the Health Committee and the Government were asked to draw up a system law within three months which would be acceptable both to operators of this activity and to the legal order in Slovenia. We have these things prepared, but, as has already been said by Mrs Richter, this is ready for the next reference, which, I am sure, will have quite a job to do, because it will only have to be re-examined to see what else is which is impeding the adoption of the system law and will then be able to go into procedure. Nevertheless, given that we do not have the opportunity now to ensure the legal conduct of medical activities, these changes, which are, as it is said, part of what is enshrined in the proposal for a system law, are accepted and made possible work in this area. In the further period, however, in the follow-up procedures, the remaining members of this High Council will, of course, determine how the medical activity will be carried out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u79	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. The word has magic. Mr Andreja Richter on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u80	Your Honor, once again a very nice greeting! At its previous regular meeting with a very, very critical view of the draft law, the Group of Social Democrats unanimously supported the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Medical Law. Today, too, we have heard that they listened to us very carefully in the State Council, and then they did not finally listen and build part of their veto. This law concerns legislation in this field and is in line with European law. It supervises the implementation of the activities and fills the gap created by the failure to establish the Medical Chamber. And that's the point. These were also the arguments by which the Ministry of Health or the Government came before the Members and before this law was examined in the procedure. In the course of the debate, it was very, very much critical of the same concerns proposed by the State Council in its request with a suspended veto. Nevertheless, we still had the view that marriage is essential. It is imperative to harmonise the European directive governing this area and, of course, to avoid any penalties imposed by the European Commission, to transpose it into our legislation and, in particular, to regulate, in particular, the implementation of a medical activity which we now know is not, and this is also a very large failure. That the Council of State was against the proposed law, it was clear before the second hearing on the home labour body, when, last of all, we discussed and listened to the opinion. However, the Council's representatives were obviously not paying attention to the conclusions we adopted at this meeting. I myself have been active in this session, because I have led it, not least, and we have listened very carefully once again to all the arguments that representatives of NGOs have also presented before us. And it is precisely because of the non-systematicity of the bill that it has been repeatedly stressed that it is necessary, once again, to organise a medical activity that includes the regulation of comprehensive care for human health. At the same working body and at the same meeting, it was also agreed that the Ministry of Health should thoroughly examine the field of medicine and prepare systemic solutions for the regulation of this area, which we have regulated and harmonised in this year's spring months, when we are talking about the month of March and April, where, last but not least, we have all agreed on policies, professions and all stakeholders. Of course, the Ministry of Health, which did not have sufficient time to accede to this system law, is on the move. However, we have also been very critical at the last meeting of the Committee, and regardless of the change in power or the new future, we believe that this is our common thing, regardless of who and how it will come to the old premises of the Ministry of Health and this decision, which we have adopted and which we are also mediating, has taken very seriously and has prepared a system law that will govern the whole area as soon as possible, as the Council or the Council of State has pointed out. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will also support the law this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u81	Mr Janez Ribič has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u82	Your Honor, the representative of the world, hello! Re-decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicine is before us. My position will be very brief; with the proposed Health Act only part of the problem is solved, while the area of health care is much broader and comprehensive solutions are needed. Since the proposed law is primarily to comply with the Internal Market Services Directive and to improve the safety, health and health of the users of medicinal services, we will support the proposed law in the Communication Group of the Slovenian People's Party when re-decision is taken. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u83	Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u84	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the DeSUS Group, we will once again support the proposal for a new Law on Medicine. The main reason for our decision is that it gives the Ministry of Health the legal basis for exercising control over medical activities. This is also the only reason for our decision, in fact, because the text with which the ministry last came is quite different from what was already harmonised a few months ago, and the homeopathic association did not oppose it. The only thing this proposal actually regulates right now is the supervision that otherwise should be exercised by the Medical Chamber. However, there is neither the spirit nor the hearing about the Chamber, which means that there is no control over medical operators. It is therefore necessary, in my opinion, that we also arrange for a supervisory function by the Ministry, which will now be able to carry out thorough supervision of the professional work of Slovenian physicians. As we say, in the DeSUS Group, we will once again support the proposal for a new law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u85	Mr Ivan Grill has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u86	A nice welcome to you all, especially to Secretary of State Ergen! Medicine or, as some have understood, alternative medicine in Slovenia is unfortunately still not properly regulated, even though a law was adopted in 2007 to regulate this area. Unfortunately, in all these years, the Ministry of Health has failed to establish a medical chamber to carry out professional supervision of physicians as well as licensing. This way, in Slovenia today, we have healers who do their work professionally and devotedly and for the benefit of users, but unfortunately still too many who are more than charlatans and unjustifiably abuse the plight of sick people. According to experience, most of the so-called alternative medicine is used by people who cling to it as a rescue plant in case official medicine fails to help them. And for that they are willing to pay their last euro. Such cases should not be allowed, and in the SDS Group we consider this unacceptable. And that is why this area should be regulated and supervised so that such abuses do not occur to people who use such forms of service. Unfortunately, this law, which we are considering today, is not yet sufficiently comprehensive in this area. This law now primarily aligns this area with the European acquis so that healers from abroad can do so in Slovenia. As a second key provision in this law, the Ministry of Health is also given the legal basis for the performance of tasks that otherwise should be carried out by the Medical Chamber. We will not oppose this law in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but we cannot support it for the reasons already mentioned, as we are not in the previous treatment. In the event that this law receives sufficient support, it will still not regulate this area as it should be regulated, so the Ministry of Health will have to supplement this law in order to protect the users of these services in particular and to establish a control mechanism as well as a condition for the operation of so-called alternative physicians or of this type of medicine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u87	Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u88	Nice greetings to all present! Once again, the proposal in question is to comply with the Internal Market Services Directive, which extends the range of persons who, on the basis of the permission of the Medical Chamber, may carry out a medical activity. These could be both domestic and foreign natural and legal persons. The draft law also covers the necessary provisions on supervision and on measures after professional supervision. The law provides for the establishment of a medical chamber with public powers, the granting of licences for medical activities, the granting of licences and the exercise of the professional supervision already mentioned. The bill was also presented in public hearing and comments were made by the interested professional public, society, trade unions and medical representatives, so that an agreement was reached on open issues such as penalties, education and so on. One of the important objectives of the law is to protect users of medical services from non-professional behaviour, which, of course, we welcome and support in the Slovenian National Party. Health care is generally a topic that has been strongly present in Slovenian space recently. The facts justifying the necessity of amending the law are certainly the following. The medical situation in Slovenia is not legally regulated. With the entry into Europe, there is also the fact that there are increasing numbers of people in medicine, both abroad and abroad, and due to the legal irregularities of the medical situation, there is a social problem that causes negative consequences. Medicine and various alternatives in classical medicine have always existed and the number of adherents has been increasing impressively lately. In general, the resurgence of medicine and alternative medical practices is a significant phenomenon of modern societies and functionally represents interventions and treatments that are not even taught or available in medical schools. The main negative consequence of unregulated treatment is limited choice and access to different types of treatment. Patients are deprived of quality, this is a lack of minimum standards and ethical guidelines, availability, which means lack of qualified and recognised physicians, accessibility, proper restrictions of physicians only on doctors, limited access to various products and medicines, lack of information on skills and education. They are also deprived here from the point of view of money, because in most cases they have to pay for such services themselves. In Slovenia, too many people are resorting to alternative medicine to make the same legal situation as today acceptable. The users of this method are exposed to the mercy and disfavor of various physicians. They have no review of who is trained in their field of treatment. They are also deprived of money because if the state does not recognise alternative medicine, the health insurance is not covered and other insurance companies do not want to provide insurance. On the other hand, physicians are also disadvantaged because the country does not recognise most of their methods, even though they have been in operation for years, such as the case of homeopathy and so on. In short, not to repeat myself, in the Slovenian National Party we will once again support the proposal of the law, although we have also had some reservations in previous cases, but as we see, the matter is necessary and we will have to accept it sooner or later. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u89	We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. The decision on the law will be made in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the assembly in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 26. At the end of the day, this is on the basis of a proposal for a decision on the amendment of the decision on the level of funds belonging to individual political parties from the State budget in the summer of 2011. The draft decision was tabled by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Mr Anton Kolaric, Vice-President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 38th meeting on 4 October this year, the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice discussed the allocation of funds for co-financing of political parties from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia, following the adoption of the 2011 budget balance submitted by the Government to the Assembly. On the basis of the 2011 budget balance adopted by the Republic of Slovenia, the item co-financing of the parties to the General Secretariat of the Government decreased by EUR 197 000 936 on an annual basis. As a result, monthly amounts belonging to each political party from the State budget are reduced, which is taken into account for payments in the last two months of 2011. On this basis, the Committee, in accordance with Article 112 and Article 171 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly and Article 23, paragraph 4, of the Political Parties Act, which provides that the amount of funds belonging to each party shall be fixed by the National Assembly at its first meeting following the adoption of the budget, shall be prepared by means of a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the level of funds belonging to the individual political party from the State budget in 2011, which shall be forwarded for consideration by the National Assembly. The divider is an integral part of this conclusion and we all got it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u91	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups have decided not to discuss the proposal for a decision, so I ask again whether Mr Kolarič would like to take the floor. [[He doesn't want to.]] That's how I conclude this debate. The decision on the proposal for a decision will be made in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 29. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal from the Republic of Slovenia to the Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. The proposal for a position was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. Mag. Andrea Jerina, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u92	Thank you very much, Chairman. Dear Members and Members! You have before you the Proposal for a position of the Republic of Slovenia on the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. This is a technical step towards the conclusion of Croatia's entry into the European Union. Why for a technical step? Croatia applied for membership in the European Union in February 2003 and the European Council in 2004 confirmed the official status of Croatia as a candidate country at its June session. In fact, the negotiations began in October 2005, 6 years ago when a negotiating framework for Croatia was adopted at the EU's intergovernmental accession conference with Croatia at ministerial level. In the context of the process of acceptance and validation of the EU Common Positions, Slovenia shall have an internal process of acceptance and confirmation of the views of the Republic of Slovenia on these documents. On this basis, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, pursuant to the third paragraph of Article 4 of the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in EU matters, has sent proposals for views on individual negotiating chapters of the Republic of Slovenia for confirmation to the National Assembly, both for opening and closing the individual chapter. Thus, the entire text of the Accession Treaty is based on the texts of the EU Common Positions on the temporary closure of individual chapters, with which the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia also agreed in the internal process of adopting and attesting the views of the Republic of Slovenia on the draft common positions of the EU. It was therefore a six-year-long process that ended on 30 June of this year when the last negotiating chapters were closed. At this accession conference, a mechanism to monitor the fulfilment of Croatia's commitments adopted in the framework of accession negotiations was also adopted in the framework of Chapter 35. The European Commission will thus continue to monitor closely, in cooperation with the Member States, Croatia's continued progress in all areas, until its actual approach, through regular annual progress reports and control tables. As has already been said, the entire text of the Accession Treaty is based on the agreements concluded in the accession negotiations or on the agreed texts of the EU Common Positions for the temporary closure of individual chapters. For its structure, the structure of the accession treaty is true, but you could say it is typical, because it is in its form very similar to the accession treaties of the so-called fifth round of enlargement, according to 2004 and 2007, when 12 countries joined, including Slovenia. At the same time, it is worth noting that in the process of accession negotiations with Croatia Slovenia has actively participated in and highlighted several open issues between countries. All these issues have been addressed appropriately in the EU's common positions, and in this way Slovenia has adequately protected its interests. The final text of the Accession Treaty is still being formulated as a process of linguistic and legal editing of all language versions is currently under way. Final versions in all EU official languages are expected to be confirmed on 28 October. At the moment, an unaudited Slovenian version of the text of the Treaty of Accession is available, but the final version will not depart in any way as far as the content is concerned; it will only be for possible editorial changes. It is said that we guarantee the correctness of the Slovenian language. The full text of the Accession Treaty must be formally endorsed or agreed by the European Parliament, the European Commission and Croatia. It is envisaged that the European Parliament will consider the Accession Treaty at its plenary session on 1 December this year and adopt the relevant resolution. The General Affairs Council is scheduled to adopt a decision at its meeting on 5 December to meet the conditions for signing the Accession Treaty. The signing of the contract itself is scheduled for December, and the Government proposes to sign the contract on behalf of the Republic of Slovenia by the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, and Mr Samuel Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs. The signature is followed by ratifications as a final phase in national parliaments and Croatia. These ratification procedures are expected to be completed by 30 June 2013. Given that the text of the Treaty of Accession of Croatia to the EU is in line with the texts of the Common Positions for the closure of individual chapters, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia proposes that the National Assembly support its signature. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u93	Thank you very much. The draft position was considered by the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy as the committee responsible. In order to present the report of the two committees, I give the floor to Mrs Darja Lavtijar Bebler, President of the European Union Affairs Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives from the Government Service for European Affairs and Development and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs! On 7 October 2011, the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy considered the Proposal for a position of the Republic of Slovenia on the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, which was forwarded by the Government to the National Assembly on 6 October 2011 pursuant to Article 5, paragraph 1, of the Law on Cooperation between the National Assembly and the Government in matters of the European Union. State Secretary to the Government for Development and European Affairs, Mag. In its supplementary explanation, Andrej Jerina explained that the entire text of the Accession Treaty was based on the texts of the common positions of the European Union for the temporary closure of individual chapters to which the National Assembly had given a positive opinion. The negotiations were concluded on 30 June 2011, when all the chapters previously only provisionally closed were definitively closed at the accession conference. Let me remind you that during the period July to December 2008 Slovenia has pointed out the problem that a number of laws and sub-legislative acts proving the takeover of EU legislation include a number of predecessors and violations of Croatia's ZERC commitments. A satisfactory solution to the EU accession conference with Croatia was not reached in October 2008 and Slovenia was unable to agree on progress towards chapters where predecessors or other substantive concerns were identified. Despite the intervention of the Commissioner for Enlargement, Olli Rehn, in the months following, did not find a suitable solution to the problem. On 31 July 2009, the President of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, Borut Pahor and the President of the Government of the Republic of Croatia, Jadranka Kosor, reached an agreement on a framework to address the question of the continuation of Croatian negotiations with the European Union and border issues. On 11 September 2009, in Ljubljana, two objectives were agreed by the Presidents of the governments, namely to continue the accession negotiations of the Republic of Croatia for accession to the European Union with the withdrawal of Slovenian reservations relating to the predecessors of the borders and to resolve the border dispute with the intervention of the European Union. In accordance with the agreement, Croatia opened six chapters at the accession conference in October 2009 and provisionally closed five chapters in which the former Republic of Slovenia has applied reservations due to the border crossing. The European Union's negotiating position on individual chapters prepared for this accession conference was accompanied by unilateral declarations on the protection of the interests of the Republic of Slovenia in the accession negotiations of the Republic of Croatia with the European Union, which underline the fulfilment of Croatia's agreed commitments. The next phase of resolving open issues between the countries was the signing of an arbitration agreement in Stockholm on 4 November 2009, with the presence of the current President-in-Office of the Council of the European Union, Prime Minister Fredrik Reinfeldt. At the referendum on 6 June 2010, voters and voters subsequently endorsed the Law on the Ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia. May I remind you that, in accordance with the third paragraph of Article 11 of the Arbitration Agreement, all the procedural deadlines set out in this Agreement shall begin to run from the date of signature of the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. From this point of view, the Republic of Slovenia has an interest in signing the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Finally, in recent years, the Committee on Foreign Policy, in particular the Committee on European Union Affairs, has considered the views of the Republic of Slovenia until the draft common position of the European Union has been opened and provisionally closed by all negotiating chapters and delivered positive opinions. As regards the consideration of this point at the meetings of the competent committees, the SDS Group, pursuant to Article 65(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, announced the absence of members of the parliamentary group. As no amendment has been adopted to the draft position of the competent committees, the Committee on European Union Affairs and the Committee on Foreign Policy to the National Assembly, they propose that the proposal for the position of the Republic of Slovenia to the Treaty on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union be adopted in the text submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u95	We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Ms Lovtišar Bebler has the floor again on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, let me stress that Slovenia has been actively supporting Croatia since the beginning in approaching Euro-Atlantic connections. In the meantime, Croatia has become a member of NATO and is now at the door of full membership in the European Union. For this reason, and in particular because of the fact that relations between countries have improved dramatically over the last two years due to the conclusion of the arbitration agreement, we support Slovenia's proposal for a position on Croatia's accession treaty to the European Union. It is precisely the agreement on an arbitration agreement that has eased the rather tense relations between the countries and allowed the negotiations to continue, which have stalled due to previously deteriorated relations. The agreement was also welcomed by the European Commission because it recognized the sincere and positive intentions of both countries, as this could have allowed the opening and closing of individual accession chapters to continue uninterruptedly. We must not forget that with the signature of the Croatian accession treaty, all the procedural deadlines in the arbitration agreement also begin to run. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that the adoption of the Law on the ratification of the Arbitration Agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Croatia was one of the most important decisions of this mandate. The arbitration agreement has undergone several trials, both in the Constitutional Court and in the opinion of citizens and citizens in the referendum. At the same time, we also appointed Slovenian arbitrator Dr. Jerne Sekolc, a recognized top-level legal expert with rich and long-standing experience in the field of arbitration, who will undoubtedly carry out his work responsibly and competently. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are very much committed to maintaining good neighbourly relations. We do not want to rediscover potential tensions for pre-election purposes that we have witnessed in past pre-election periods. Since we have always supported Croatia in its desire to join the European Union, this time we will also support the proposal for a position and thus demonstrate that our long-standing support for Croatia's full membership in the European Union is genuine and credible. We recognize and realize that good-neighbourly relations with Croatia and full-fledged membership in the European Union are especially in favour of us, Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u97	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! We have before us the proposal for a position of the Republic of Slovenia on the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Let me begin by stressing that in the Slovenian Democratic Party and its Group, we are constantly aware that Croatia's admission to the European Union is in the strategic interest of the Republic of Slovenia, so we have always been constructive in relation to the negotiations and the approach of Croatia, but also decisive, because we are aware that now that the issue is practically negotiated, we are no longer able to correct it. Here is the outcome of the negotiations that began on 3 October 2005, where a negotiating framework was established. It is, of course, typical before us, a contract that is practically exactly the same as for all countries, with annexes, and here comes some specific solutions specific to each country. The results of the negotiations according to the chapters are shown. Slovenia is practically mentioned only in Chapter 13, Fisheries where, under the additions, the access of Slovenia and Croatia to coastal waters of the neighbouring country is also determined within the meaning of Article 17, paragraph 2, of the Council Regulation on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy. Here the Treaty amends Annex 1 and in this way, as provided for in this record, retains the historic fishing right in the territorial waters of Croatia. It shall then be specified when this transitional period or solutions resulting from the SOPS and applicable to the application of the arbitral decision shall apply. I can say that Croatia has also negotiated, say, good quotas for sugar production in agriculture. In fact, here I turn to history when Slovenia has not been so successful. However, I must point out that the problem of this treaty vis-à-vis Slovenia is that the consequences of the arbitral decision on the Republic of Slovenia will not be known until after the beginning of the full membership of the Republic of Croatia. Here we continue to believe in the Group of Members that the provisions of the Arbitration Agreement are not favourable to Slovenia and can be dangerous for Slovenia. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we also believe that Slovenia has often not been successful enough in protecting and enforcing the vital interests of the Republic of Slovenia in relation to the Republic of Croatia. It is known that, for example, the other neighbour of the Republic of Croatia, neighbouring Hungary, has better protected its interests, which is reflected in these negotiations. However, at this stage, we report that we will not oppose this technical step to support it, because, as I mentioned at the outset, we cannot achieve any other solutions at this stage and all the consequences will only be shown below. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u99	Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u100	Hello! Hello, government representatives! Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The Zares Group will support the views of the Republic of Slovenia on Croatia's accession treaty to the European Union. From the very beginning, we have advocated the entry of the neighbouring country into the European Union and also the regulation of all open issues between countries. The fact that Croatia is a candidate for membership in the European Union has helped to find optimal solutions, and if anything is to be recognised by the current government, this is indeed a success in regulating relations with Croatia. This regulation also took place in combination with the Croatian negotiations with the European Union, because we know how we were able to resolve the knot called the arbitration agreement on the border with Croatia. This arbitration agreement is an integral part of this package, and once the conditions are met and the accession agreement of Croatia is confirmed, all procedures for arbitration between Slovenia and Croatia will be initiated. We consistently advocate best relations with neighbouring Croatia, because it is the strategic interest of Slovenia. Croatia in the European Union also means crossing the border, exceeding those differences that still divide interests in the border area. In particular, we coming from this border area know what this means for the further development of the Slovenian economy in the southwest of Europe. Croatia is certainly one of the most prepared among the candidates, and we can expect its full membership in the short term. This full membership will offer Slovenia many new opportunities, as well as full membership of other countries that have emerged in the former Yugoslavia. While the European Union is in a crisis, it must not be a cause or cause for any restriction and delaying accession negotiations with candidate countries. In doing so, we are pleased that it appears that a consensus will be reached in this national assembly in support of this position. The position is of course more technical in nature, because we are trying to catch the deadline for Slovenia not to hang up in confirming this accession treaty, but it is certainly a message that we are sending with the support of such a position, positively, because the next governments will also have to continue from where we are now. And the point where we are now is a good point, a good starting point for the further resolution of all outstanding issues, in particular border issues, which will finally end with arbitration, while Croatia will join the European Union as a full-fledged member, triggering quite a few common dynamics that Slovenia can only benefit from. Indeed, the Group of Members will support this position today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u101	Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u102	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We support the entry of the Western Balkan countries into the European Union, as well as Croatia's entry, throughout the Slovenian People's Party's Group. However, we keep in mind the mistakes that Slovenia has made in establishing the border between countries, and Croatia has been making good use of these mistakes since its independence. In the Slovenian People's Party, we did not agree on an agreement on how to resolve the border issue, but we respect the outcome of the referendum, where such a solution was also confirmed. We note, however, that during this period the most important is the preparation of Slovenian arbitration points or clearly expressed requirements of Slovenia with appropriate evidence. To this end, for the first time in February, we have asked the President of the Government to convene a meeting of Parliamentary Party Presidents, and unfortunately, the President of the Government did not want to do so. However, everything is certainly not yet delayed, and we expect that at least at this final stage Slovenia will not make mistakes as it has all done in the past 20 years. In this expectation and further support for the entry into the European Union of the Republic of Croatia's Proposal for a Position of the Republic of Slovenia on the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union in the Slovenian People's Party Group, we will not object. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u103	Mr Joško Godec has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u104	Thank you so much for saying that. The position of the DeSUS Group on the Proposal for a position of the Republic of Slovenia on the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is as follows. In these few months, which have remained until the end of the year, all members of the European Union will take one last step towards Croatia's full membership of the European Union. The Accession Treaty is the sum of all 35 negotiating chapters, which our neighbour and Member States have negotiated with us for almost six years. The Accession Treaty confirms that Croatia has implemented all the reforms that have been conditional on the submission to the 27 members of the European Union. The entire text of the contract is based on the texts of the common positions of the European Union for the temporary closure of individual chapters, to which everyone has also been given the consent of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we do not see any obstacles in our Group of Members that we do not agree with the content of the accession treaty that is before us. We also do not see obstacles to support because the text has been translated into Slovenian informally. The signature of the contract is scheduled for 19 December and ratification procedures shall then be initiated in the national parliaments, which must be carried out no later than last July 2013. Slovenia notes that the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union is in line with the texts of the common positions of the European Union for the closure of individual chapters and therefore supports its signature. This was the position of the Republic of Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we agree with this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u105	Mr Bogdan Barovic has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, colleagues and colleagues! I have been a member of the European Union Affairs Committee since 2000 and since the first day. Not only a member, I thank everyone in these mandates for entrusting me with the post of Vice-President of the Committee on European Union Affairs. I learned a lot at that time, and I've learned a lot, and I've experienced a lot. I have lived through the times when Slovenia entered the European Union. We worked very hard with the so-called 5 + 1 group at the time, and we monitored everything that happened with regard to Slovenia at the time of its accession to the European Union, despite the fact that the Slovenian national party was a Eurosceptic party and that we are still a Euro-realist party today. We've come to know and respect that saying that if you want to be a member of the club, you have to follow the rules. Why did I start with this introduction? Because I remember how the accession of the State of the Republic of Slovenia to the European Union was in the negotiations between Italy and Austria. According to domestically and very briefly: Italy has set conditions, and until Slovenia has fully met those conditions, it has not entered the European Union. One sentence, and that's all there is to it. When she, the optons and other things, did so, she was welcome with other members in the so - called great procession and came to Europe. And that's fair and square. We ask ourselves in the Slovenian National Party whether the attitude towards any other country – let us now talk about Croatia – is the same. Slovenia had to meet the conditions first, then it entered. Also the conditions required by the neighbours. Croatia should complete all that it should accomplish to the neighbours of the Slovenians and then enter. It's not! Croatia will enter, and it has not fulfilled the conditions, as far as I am aware of this moment – I suppose I wish it were not so – and it will not. And there won't be. Now let's be specific. The material we have for this point – it is quite thick – is recorded in all 35 chapters to be completed by the State of Croatia at each beginning in exactly the same way: Croatia takes over the acquis of the European Union under Chapter XY and will be ready to implement it from the date of accession. In all of them. Now let's see if that's the case. I simply stop at only one chapter, with the only one where Slovenia is included, this is Chapter 13, Fisheries. Croatia shall take over the acquis referred to in Chapter 13 and shall be ready to implement it from the date of accession to the European Union. Prepared for its implementation, it says that preparing for this implementation is that all things are clean and resolved. Only two paragraphs later state that Chapter 13 also provides for the access of Slovenia and Croatia to coastal waters of neighbouring countries within the meaning of Article 17, paragraph 2, of Council Regulation No. 2371/2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the Common Fisheries Policy. Finally, he says: "This way Slovenia is permanently granted historic fishing rights in the territorial waters of Croatia." Again, in this way Slovenia is permanently granted historical fishing rights in the territorial waters of Croatia. And only two paragraphs below read: "The Treaty of Accession for the Time From Croatia's Accession to the European Union to the Full Implementation of the Arbitration Judgment for Slovenia provides for an amendment to the European Fisheries Fund which grants premiums to Slovenian fishermen..." – now pay attention – "...for the temporary non-execution of historic fishing rights." So, two paragraphs are higher and we have been granted historical fishing rights, and only two paragraphs are lower for us, and we are forced not to exercise fishing rights. But if you do, that's why you're getting a bonus. That's right, that's what it says. First of all, does that seem fair to you? And secondly, do you think Croatia is ready to join the European Union in this chapter? I don't know. You'll answer. Page 14 shows you clearly the position of our country. And then, if you look at this paper, let's look at Annex 7 on page 189, where we see that this absolute readiness of the neighbouring country of Croatia in 35 chapters is a little flawed, because it has quite a few special commitments that the Republic of Croatia has undertaken in the accession negotiations and will have to continue. It will have to ensure the effective implementation of the Justice Reform Strategy, further strengthening independence, accountability, impartiality, professional justice, further improving the efficiency of the judiciary, further improving the handling of domestic cases and so on. Such matters are 10 important, of which the previous chapters of Chapters 1 to 35 state that they are prepared at the time of the signing of the Treaty of Accession of the European Union. And on this page, it says what else they have to do. I don't know. If I'm not on the job and I don't have the stuff, the screws and the closets, I'm not ready to dig the ditches. Am I? This is not about Croatia, this is about an honest attitude towards all countries. I want to, and the Slovenian National Party wants to, and has stressed this a hundred times that, as we have entered the European Union in a package, all the countries of the former Yugoslavia have entered the European Union in a package: Croatia, Macedonia, Serbia, Montenegro, because of me, if you want, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Kosovo, depending on its status. This one wasn't in Yugoslavia, it was easy. I am also in favour of Turkey entering first, because Turkey deserves much more than all these countries, even more than Croatia and even more than Romania and Bulgaria, but it is not in. It's not a fair relationship. That's what I'm trying to say. Slovenia had to zero all the conditions that Italy had invented. You may have an opportunity, my dear fellow, to clarify. In short, look, the Slovenian National Party doesn't mind. Let's spread Europe, it'll be bigger, we'll be stronger if we've made up our minds, but let's have the same vats and the same meters for all people. And finally, if you'll excuse me, I'm going to use one real comparison that happened half an hour ago. Today we are considering the proposal of the Republic of Slovenia's position on the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia. Except for our slightly more critical position, and from my colleagues in the SDS, I know you'll all agree that you know that it's good for Slovenia, that you can't wait for this to happen and great, fine, okay. I'm not gonna say we're what Ivan Cankar wrote. I won't. Half an hour ago, I am called by a colleague I know and believe him and who has business and business in the neighbouring Yugoslav Republic in Serbia. And he says, "Is it possible that this happened to me?" That's what I'm saying because you're representatives of the Foreign Ministry here. He called the embassy, or the consul, or the ambassador for some business. And when he got it, when it started ringing, the answering machine rang, and he said, "I didn't write it down exactly, but it's like, "The subscriber is currently creditless." I believe I know a man. We speak and worship one country today, and we are so flunky, and on the other hand we obviously do not have enough money to pay our embassies in Serbia. I was hurt because of this man because he said he had urgent things to do and he couldn't believe it. It is not fair, nor are these relations fair, that we do not have money for our people representing this country in another country to pay phone bills, and we worship others like this. You know what? I'm ashamed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Anton Anderlič will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u108	Your Honor! I could say that miracles are happening, but it is only a matter of waiting, because when we begin to address this point on the committee, we were not actually able to do it because of the obstruction of some of the parliamentary groups, but I am glad that things are changing and that we are here practically collectively supporting the conclusion of this process. In the Liberal Democracy, we are convinced that the Republic of Croatia, at a time that was not short - I think it is more than six years - in which we have actively participated, has fulfilled everything that has to be fulfilled, that the conditions laid down before someone wants to join the European Union are fulfilled to the extent that the state can enter with competence, with a willingness to cooperate at the same levels under the same rules as the rest of the European Union. In order to ensure that it has provided itself with some transitional periods that it will surely carry out under the watchful eye in specific areas, with a view to the final objective of adaptation in all areas. There is certainly no benefit for the Republic of Slovenia, even in this part when this exception was made. It seems to me that it is unclear and also incorrect to say that there will be no impact on the economy, on public administration, on the environment, on the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. I think the impacts will be positive, and that is because by releasing free traffic for goods, services, people and so on, the Republic of Slovenia shakes down some obstacles, some problems and can also prevent some of the consequences that would arise, let's say negative in the field of the environment. After all, we have some things in common when it comes to the Krško nuclear plant, when it comes to something else, and I think it will be a positive impact on the environment, not that there will be no, but it is probably a standard agreement and that is why these things are written about. But why not tell the citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia that this is in our favour and that there will be positive effects? I am firmly convinced of this, including in the field of the economy, even in the area of the budget, if you want, if there is a greater trade, a greater flow of services and more. These are things that are important to the Liberal Democracy, and there has never been any doubt that, in meeting the conditions, anyone we jointly decide in the European Union can be invited to comply with the requirements laid down and, if they are met by the nominations expressed, can join this family. Indeed, it is possible for these things to take place at a time when these things are happening, long, too long, and at that time there are usually major changes, as they have since Croatia started this process of association, and now that Europe is also thinking about its internal problems. In the meantime, the Treaty had to be amended, we had reached the Treaty of Lisbon and so on. In short, a whole series of things have happened, so we are accompanied by this support with the desire to really – here I absolutely agree with those who say that Turkey is the next one not to have too long in the waiting room or to tell it clearly how it can work with Europe, because the data that we can follow, economic development, state regulation, pension legislation and all other things, are talking about that Europe will need Turkey sooner than Turkey Europe, and not so far in the future, but just soon. To talk about some gray fox within Europe when it comes to the Western Balkan countries that are practically already trapped. If you look at which neighbours are bordering Albania, Macedonia, Serbia, Croatia, you will see that they are European countries themselves, and that there are about 20 million people, so to speak, trapped in the heart of Europe. With this support, we announce that we will also continue to support all others when we expect them to meet the conditions and help to meet them. As we say, Members of the Liberal Democracy will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u109	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a position. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the very opinions, a number of inaccuracies were expressed. I would like to take this opportunity to clarify some of the uncertainties and some of the misunderstandings that constantly occur when we discuss our relations with Croatia. This comparison between our approach to the European Union and Croatia's accession is only possible to a certain extent, otherwise it is not possible to mix apples and pears, as formerly allowed by colleague Barovic, when he mentioned the conditions that should be accepted when we entered the European Union ourselves, in relation to the members of the European Union or Italy. Let us explain immediately that at the time Slovenia allowed itself to say no to conditioning Italy, and if memory does not deceive us, this condition was narrowed down in the so-called Clearing House Agreement. This is an agreement initialled by then Foreign Minister Lois Peterle, if I am not mistaken, with Minister Martin and in which Italy demanded the return of several thousand nationalised properties after World War II. This did not happen because the then government with Janez Drnovsk said absolutely no and then the negotiations moved, we came up with a so-called Spanish compromise with which Slovenia did not lose anything or property, because there was no mass sale of property to interested foreigners. So this comparison with Croatia is not appropriate. What have we achieved with Croatia? Within the negotiations with the European Union, Croatia has also agreed to resolve the border issue in an internationally sustainable manner, that is, through the use of international arbitration, the institute we know, which we have achieved after we have already provided the Croatians with the opportunity to resolve this issue at the international court in The Hague, which would be less favourable for Slovenia. This did not happen because the government has, however, changed the strategy and strategy and has reached an arbitration framework within this European dialogue, which will be completed after the accession treaty of Croatia has been approved. I will not say that we have achieved an ideal result, but undoubtedly an optimal one. From this point of view, Slovenia's interests will not only be represented in all stages of further negotiations with Croatia, but, above all, Croatia's entry into the European Union is a new moment and a new opportunity for our country. How many economic interests we have in neighbouring Croatia are known mainly by economists, in the Chamber of Economics, by entrepreneurs, in particular by the inhabitants of the border regions, and it is no wonder that in the referendum on the Arbitration Agreement a large majority of the electorates and electorates of the border municipalities, the border regions with Croatia voted in favour of the Arbitration Agreement. Let me point out that, for example, the coastline, i.e. the Slovenian Istria, which directly borders Croatia, voted with 70% of the votes in favour of the arbitration agreement, with a record right in Sečovje, where the biggest campaign of the bickering of good-neighbourly relations is taking place, where there has been a systematic attempt to abuse some personal hardship to make these difficulties appear to be an interstate problem. And there were 85% of the votes for the arbitration agreement. Unfortunately, some parties to this communication did not fully understand and continued to obstruct or obstruct negotiations with Croatia and also the arbitration agreement for a long time. Today we have certainly noticed some commendable leap or movement of the biggest opposition party, and if I understand correctly, you will not oppose this position of the Republic of Slovenia. You understand that there are no alternatives or ways back, and that's good. They may be aware that if we become a government party again, they need good starting points to continue either relations with the Republic of Croatia or relations with the rest of the European Union. Because we are all aware that our relationship with Croatia has been a document of our European behaviour and our European conscience several times. After all, we cannot behave as some other European actors and other members of the European Union have done to Slovenia. It would be extremely inconsistent to take on a pattern of behaviour and conditionality of the new members we have experienced on our own, when entering the European Union. But even then, with a very clever diplomatic action, we avoided all real blackmail or were able to dose them in such a way that our fundamental interests were not conceived, but were enforced. And it was very eloquent to hear a representative of the largest organisation of the European Union at a public meeting where I was at the time attending the role of Secretary of State, finding them angry that with the Spanish compromise – allow me to say, I will repeat, I will quote – I will fuck him. I was grateful to him for this assessment, I said they didn't know it at home, but the fact is that the solution we invented at the time was an excellent example of good diplomacy. And it was in relation to Croatia that this good diplomacy was repeated. We succeeded despite blocking Croatia for almost a year, which I personally disagreed with, and at that time, I was one of the few voices who also publicly opposed such a sharpening of relations, but then I admitted that the same government that cooked the sharpening was able to cash this sharpening in the optimal way, probably even in the fact that the Croatian government or Prime Minister had changed and we had a new interlocutor. In short, the circumstances allowed us to translate that mistake into a new framework where Slovenia optimally exploited negotiations with Croatia or with the European Union. And if the European Union were not here as an intermediary, as a mediator, we would not have come to this agreement, and perhaps the border between Slovenia and Croatia would be a permanent scene of incidents, tensions and we would be quickly and rightly confused with Kosovo or Serbia, where these tensions are still escalating today. Perhaps if both Kosovo and Serbia, already a member of the European Union, were more likely to have a sober agreement. So, unfortunately, we still have Balkan stories to deal with today's general, financial, political and social crisis. In short, I welcome this position and, as I said earlier on behalf of the Zares Group, we will be happy to support the position and endorsement of this agreement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr Bevk has the floor to prepare Mr Gantar, Kek or Potč.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u112	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The Slovenian public and all of us have already forgotten how intensely we have dealt with the issue of establishing a border with Croatia through an arbitration agreement and Croatia's entry into the European Union since 1991, especially during the period of government led by Borut Pahor. When the government was united, we were able to make important and historic decisions. In this mandate, we have established very good relations with the neighbouring country of Croatia. We have set up relations that have been very burdensome for 20 years with completely internal political problems in both Slovenia and Croatia. From a distance, it will certainly show that this government has been a successful government in a number of areas. And I think that today both DeSUS and Zaresu are sorry that they left this coalition, but let's leave it at the side now, because we have a very short-term state-election election ahead of us. Let's look ahead and remember how they broke up at the border before the 2004 elections. Remember the constant incidents at Mura, the Bay of Piran and the house of Joras. For some there is a fear that Croatia will enter the European Union before an arbitration agreement establishes a border between countries. So let's see what the arbitration agreement actually brings us. The arbitration agreement, which was approved at the June referendum last year, provides a way for a fair and fair settlement of the border dispute and also ensures peace and co-existence at the border. The agreement also allows for the establishment of a state on the day of Slovenia's independence on 25 June 1991. The continuation of the status quo would weaken the negotiating possibilities of Slovenia every year, which would ultimately distance us from the direct exit to the open sea. In addition to establishing the border on land and sea, the main task of the arbitral tribunal is to determine the contact of Slovenia with the open sea, which means contact of the Slovenian territory with the open sea, which has made it possible to mark the Drnovšek-Račan Agreement. In addition to international law, the agreement takes into account the historical circumstances that speak in favour of Slovenia, takes into account the principle of fairness, as well as all other relevant circumstances, for the fair and just establishment of the border. Slovenia has protected its national interests by adopting an arbitration agreement. Slovenia will thus continue to develop as a maritime state and Luka Koper as the most important port in the northern Adriatic. The resolution of the almost 20-year dispute between the countries has also opened up new opportunities for the Slovenian economy, in particular strengthening the reputation and influence of the Republic of Slovenia throughout the region and the European Union. The majority of voters voted in favour of the ratification of the arbitration agreement last June. Let me remind you, it's not that big a deal for today's decision. The arbitration agreement was then supported by the United States of America, all the countries of the European Union, even the Vatican diplomacy, even supported by the pope. Rode also said that an arbitration agreement was needed. To remind me of what was happening last year, also the Commission's statement Justice and Peace, which usually brings to the views of the Slovenian Catholic Church, contained some elements that our government has also advocated so that the fair border can ensure coexistence and peace. That is why this Commission also made this agreement last year. So we decided to make peace with our neighbors and to resolve the border issue in a reasonable way. This is why there is no reason to oppose the views of the Republic of Slovenia on the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. It is therefore in the Slovenian interest that the Republic of Croatia becomes part of the European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr Potrč has the floor to prepare Mr Majhenič or Ziherl.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u114	Thank you very much. With everything that's said, it's hard to say anything essential. I too personally support the views of the Republic of Slovenia on the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. I've got some starting points for that. Firstly, I am convinced that the foreign policy of each country is an extremely important element in ensuring its international position, allowing for appropriate political, economic and other relations and ensuring that this country enjoys the necessary reputation. However, foreign policy, according to my modest behaviour, is not formed from today to tomorrow and does not change from today to tomorrow, but must have certain standings and, through these constants, must also apply its policy. Secondly, there is no doubt that good-neighbourly relations with all our neighbours, for which our country is particularly trying, are one of such permanent foreign policy. This applies also and especially to relations with the Republic of Croatia, and this applies especially now, at a time when we can decide that the Republic of Croatia will open the way for further negotiations and for final integration into the European Union. Thirdly, I would like to say that none of us would have recently admitted that we are also facing a series of economic, political and similar problems in the European Union. However, our policy so far and in the future is to support the integration of other countries into the European Union, especially the Western Balkan countries, and especially the Republic of Croatia, which is certainly after economic development, after the internal relations have been regulated, even through the degree of democracy formally – as far as everyone knows for himself, and we are not, in fact, satisfied with everything as we are developing with our relations – meets the conditions, I would modestly hope to say that more than some of the countries that have been adopted in round 12 together with us. And last time, all the procedure that has been taken in connection with Croatia's entry into the European Union has been done democratically, the National Assembly has participated in it. Moreover, the most important decision was confirmed first in the Constitutional Court and later in the referendum. In view of the experience we have with other referenda, it is likely that today it is all the more necessary to say the value of the referendum, which was positive for its adoption with regard to the arbitration agreement. I believe that every serious party knows that foreign policy does not generate domestic policy and that it will never be a long-term merit, that even if the pre-election time is what it is today, it is not good to be tactful, but it is good to think in the long term. I believe that this National Assembly will be able to do so without any specific questions or problems, and without much vote, to support the draft positions that are ready. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr Ziherl has the floor to prepare Mr Luka Juri, Križman or Mrs Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u116	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! We also support Croatia's accession treaty to the European Union in the Slovenian Democratic Party, but in this reversal of words, our obstruction was abused at a meeting of the Committee on European Union Affairs, where it was clearly and loudly stated that we are proposing to postpone the Committee's meeting from Friday to another day this week, for objective reasons, because we have received such bulky material, i.e. material the size of the phone book, the day before, and it has not been able to be studied to the best extent possible. Because it's an important matter, but it can't just go on like this. Since our request or our proposal has not been complied with, we have left the meeting. So it was said at the time, and therefore every twisting of words today is inappropriate. The question also arises why such a rush with this item on the agenda. This point could wait another month, two, three when a new government was formed, and we would then decide on it. I don't know if this falls under the government's current business, something like this, which can be decided even further in the referendum or, as a result, the next conclusions of such a rank may be needed by a two-thirds majority. We support Croatia's entry into the European Union, but not at all costs. So we expressed our concerns about each chapter when we rushed to close it. We have seen that it is in the interest of the European Union, that Croatia must be brought to this association in every way and at all costs. It has not been taken into account that the atmosphere in Croatia is not the most favourable, but it does not concern us in the final stage. However, it is certainly difficult for an arbitration agreement to take effect by its decision only after Croatia's accession to the European Union. And since a bad script is very likely for Slovenia, fears and concerns are even more common. Let me mention just a few bad, poorly prepared or quickly and violently closed chapters. What is more important is the section on the environment where we gave the Bianca concession to Croatia, or the outstanding area of the Krško Nuclear Power Plant – the ownership relationship, radioactive waste, the decommissioning fund. Moreover, in the environmental field, we have seen that the European Union wants Croatia in its kind in every way. According to one key, they should increase the number of coupons in the ETS scheme, i.e. in greenhouse gas trading, and since Croatia complained, some countries have even been so helpful to lend it their coupons, and they do not have them themselves, because they were large industrial countries, which already have to pay 20 euros per tonne of carbon dioxide to release it. In any event, the question of fisheries, in particular as regards the interpretation of the border, is inconsistent with the provisions on the implementation of the ZERC and other matters. We have seen in several documents the descriptive movement of the border; instead of the map, some points are listed as permanent border crossings. Given that the border has not yet been established there, they may be defined as temporary border crossings. Because of me they may be there for the next thousand years because of logistics, due to traffic flows, but it must be written in black on white that this is a temporary border crossing in the territory of Slovenia managed by the Republic of Croatia. It's nothing new. Years ago, such a regime was in the caravan tunnel, where, at the entrance of the tunnel, the Austrians were touring and touring, at the entrance to Slovenia, i.e. in the opposite direction, while the Slovenian authorities were touring and customsing. And no one owned certain territories because it was agreed that on specific squares, on specific surfaces they could exercise the sovereignty of the Austrian authorities in our territory and vice versa. Well, there's still a lot of these traps in the misplaced chapters. We warned free of charge in the Slovenian Democratic Party because it was somehow with the smoke curtain of the upcoming arbitration agreement, where everything is still open and still hanging in the air. There will be two equal, equal opponents on the arbitration court, a multitude of positions, and the outcome is uncertain. Cooperation with the Republic of Croatia is certainly necessary. It is necessary to support not only Croatia to join the European Union, but also other countries in the wider area. Turkey was mentioned today, and I fear for it. In the event that you did not find a colleague and a colleague, the Turkish position is to freeze entry negotiations if the Greek part of Cyprus is to preside over the European Union. So, the presidency of Cyprus starts when this frozen state of accession ends, but it is not known, and what will be the consequences. Other countries, however, have a whole bunch of obstacles. The idea of colleagues Barovic to enter the package is still on the table, but it is quite unrealistic because the time differences in the willingness of countries to go into the package are so different. If you have good neighbors, there is an urgent need for help, there is a need for good cooperation, but there is no need to give in indefinitely for good relations. A neighbor who is too flexible, who is soft, will not be respected and will be more demanding every day. A hard, fair neighbor is the best neighbor. When bureaucratic barriers fall, with some already at the time of accession negotiations, an even greater opportunity for entrepreneurs can be expected. I think that Croatia is already somewhere in the third place in our trade, and this opportunity certainly shows us to take advantage. But once again there will be the question of who drinks and who pays, especially when it is offered to us that our best neighbor will be after the new Agrokor. However, business matters have their own logic and should not be affected by politics. But there are also opportunities for young entrepreneurs. I can see that the country has great respect for them, because today I have heard here in Parliament that our particular colleague with the group has received enormous funds at the Ministry of Education for Online Advice. The Ministry of Education can afford such investments in cash, and if a school principal cannot even buy a ball for his children, let him know where his money went — to make very good investments somewhere in East Styria. There is supposed to be a center of this company, i.e. online counselling, and if I understand and hear it correctly, even about eight million euros. There's still enough money in this country to throw a shovel out the window. To enter Croatia into the European Union, but under the conditions and under the requirements that arise and belong to the European country. We can't look at any of the candidates through the fingers, because then there's trouble. We know the problems with the establishment of the Schengen system with Romania and Bulgaria. That no other procedure or other event in the European Union will be a problem with Croatia. Otherwise, it may be appropriate to wish Croatia the best in the society of European nations, in the European Union, where it will enter in one of the years ahead.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u117	Thank you. He has the word of Dr. Luka Juri, to prepare Mr Križman or Mrs Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u118	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Relations with Croatia have been marked by several initial errors from Slovenia over the past 20 years, after all by both countries, which have turned something that was very easily resolved into the biggest inter-neighbourly problem. Initial errors by our country of Slovenia can be identified as early as 1991, when the foundations of our independence were laid and, after all, as part of these foundations, they also established border checkpoints, which then became border crossing points. At that time, Slovenia decided to be very conservative in setting its checkpoints in the area of Sečovlje and Dragonje, regardless of what we always knew in Slovenia as a border point between the Socialist Republic of Slovenia and the Socialist Republic of Croatia, that is, that rise along the Sečovlje valley, that rise on the hills, which then leads to Croatia. Slovenia then made a different decision, placed its control point on the Dragonji River and thus in fact marked the border – not only the border setting, but also the definition of the maritime part of the border until now and until the conclusion of the arbitration procedure. From this point of view, the decisions of the then Demos' Government and, more specifically, the then Secretary of the Interior, Igor Bavčar, and the Secretary of Defence, Janez Janša, were a key mistake that has been going on until now. A key mistake that I think would be unfair to point to, if that was really what seemed crucial to our country at the time, and here I understand, it was in my opinion that the wise decisions of both the Secretary for Defence and Home Affairs were that they preferred to deal with the defence of Slovenia and the defence of its independence by the then aggressor, namely the Yugoslav army, and that other issues, although later very important, were at that time unpriority. Although we can see together that this was an initial error, we must also acknowledge together that at that time this error did not seem to be so crucial, and later it proved how long it took. It is clear, however, that if we did not initially worry about Slovenian statehood at the time, we would not be able to continue dealing with the border issue at all, because the state would not be. Please take this comment, including those who naturally defend actions, such as John Janša, not as wicked, but as a simple conclusion of a fact. You'd probably do a lot of things like those people back then. The second mistake was the decision, or more often or practically more than an exception to the rule of resolution, to say that micro disputes in the border area are actively and prioritised to include both capitals, Zagreb and Ljubljana, and to take all the momentum that people had along the border, to find practical and smart solutions, and then to resolve it at the level of two capitals. That's when things got complicated, because you know, people at the border know what the practices were, we know what the real problems and the real needs of people living at that border are. And when Koper, Isoli and Piranu on the one hand and Bujam, Umag and Buzet were taken away and said, "No, Ljubljana and Zagreb will talk about this exclusively, and you locals will be quiet, see, you can send some initiative – that is when the diplomatic complication started, from just one problem to another. At the border, however, we always held our heads and wondered how much, so that I wouldn't be offensive, could be complicated by state diplomacy, but when problems are so practical and so resolutionable with a little good will, when people trust each other. And people at the border, I can say this about Istria, but I hope that the same goes for Prekmurje, for example, we trust each other. In that space we have lived for generations and we know that a satisfied and happy neighbor after all means that you can be satisfied, happy and successful yourself. Afterwards, poor diplomatic relations continued, which in fact began to become bad neighbourly relations over the years, because complications at the level of capitals and portrayals of political games at the level of capitals to the real life of people then began to be realized, for example, with problems that we know well, at the houses near Dragoja, at the Sečovlje checkpoint and so on. Croatia's entry was the opportunity that allowed us to cut the matter off, but it was not only possible to cut it off with goodwill, because relations were already so entrenched and there was so little trust between us that we had to take one big step back so that we could then take two even bigger steps forward. And this, in my opinion, was the decision of Slovenia, under the government of Borut Pahor, a courageous and risky decision to block Croatia's entry negotiations into the European Union. This decision has led both countries, Slovenia and Croatia, to an inexhaustible position, a position from which there was a wise and meaningful possibility of a single dissipation, and this was the final agreement on what we will do with this border. The fact that diplomacy, I think consciously, has led us to such a critical situation has encouraged us not only to resolve this critical situation but to resolve the entire dispute further. And we solved it with what has been clear for several years now that it will happen, but we needed will and courage on both sides, and here goes the recognition of both Kosorje and Pahorje for courage, for the fact that the policy has taken important decisions, decisions that I also believe were not the weather to the work of politics on the one hand or on the other, because part of the policy on the one hand and on the other side of its political point has also taken on the basis of the dispute with Croatia. And now that this conflict is gone, there is nowhere left to look for these political points. Remember when some of our political Februarys broke up with police officers at the border in Sečovje, others rolled into the river, and then some even — interestingly, during the election campaign, what a coincidence — went to electoral meetings with a hand in a cast. But then this path of position led us to an arbitration agreement, and here I will not lose much of the words in what has already been said, which has passed the judgement of the Constitutional Court and which has received the green light of citizens and citizens at the referendum, which is in fact the most important. That was a moment of great confusion. We've all been involved in this debate, we've all had big questions. Let us remember this almost linguistic debate about what contact means, what access means, what territorial contact and then translates into English what should be both. Finally, we have come up with a solution that has enabled something that is in the interests of both countries: Croatia's entry into our common European Union and, as a result, the greater opening of Croatia for entrepreneurial, economic initiatives on our part, where we normally have people living along the border, the greatest interest that Croatia is within the European Union, because we also have the most business with it, we have daily contacts with our neighbours in Croatia and we need openness, we need an open contact. We have actually had 20 years at the border, unlike people elsewhere, the geographical part of our market is limited or partially closed, because the entrepreneur or the operator from Kopra could operate in the north, in the east, in the west and in the south. Finally, this matter opened up and this is in the interest of not only Croatia, it is in great interest, if not all of Slovenia, but certainly of us who live in Slovenia. So thank you to this government, which has successfully resolved an important issue during the great difficulties, along with all policy, and thank all those who will vote in favour of this treaty today, because you will make it possible for our people to live better at the border. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u119	Thank you. Mrs Brunskole has the floor to prepare Mr Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Very well greeted, distinguished representatives of the government, distinguished colleagues and colleagues, chairman! I will certainly support the proposal for positions and certainly all those who live on the border with the Republic of Croatia, we have no doubt here at all. And as has already been pointed out several times today, the referendum itself has shown how important it is to resolve good neighbourly relations throughout the centuries to continue and, above all, to wish the Republic of Croatia entry into the European Union. And let me say myself as the one who lives and I am also the responsible representative of the local community at the border with the Republic of Croatia, how great joy it was in Croatia on 10 June evening when I was at one of their larger events. There was no greater satisfaction than that each of the present speakers from the position of the Croatian government spoke mainly about July 1, 2013, about the satisfaction expressed over the decisions taken by Brussels, the European Commission and so on. And it is also interesting to listen to the debate today by some colleagues. I myself remember how the pre-referendum campaign took place. In particular, because some people today have mentioned the conversion of words, the transfer, and it is interesting how quickly the time comes when the time of the election campaign comes again and people forget how some people in our area have even strongly urged them to vote against the arbitration agreement, so let them be in the referendum against, not for, not for, not for. Therefore, it is good to remember these words at times, not just to forget certain facts. In fact, at the time, people made reasonable decisions, in their minds, but in particular they did not forget certain facts, regardless of political or ideological beliefs and thinking. And I am truly pleased that there have been some discussions about what this brings to people at the border. Certainly people along the border – who will ever say at the edge of Slovenia, at the border, the Schengen border, at the border of the European Union. There's been a lot of important movements lately. There has certainly been a great movement and certainly congratulations to both the President of the Government and all the competent ministries for important steps. At the local level, however, this proved to be in many ways. Certainly one of the major and important issues is the importance of the Slovenian economy. We know how important the export market means Croatia to the Republic of Slovenia, how highly it is classified, among the first three countries which constitute an important export market for Slovenia and, on the other hand, as importers. As importers slightly less than exporters, on the other hand, the fact that they lead important trade routes, not only to Croatia, but also to other countries of the former Yugoslavia and beyond, in connection with the Republic of Croatia, is certainly also a fact. On the other hand, when we talk about the link between the European Union and important transport routes, let me say that there are still some important steps being taken by Croatia in this direction; perhaps they have been even a step further at present. However, here, the Ministry of Transport has also taken urgent and necessary steps, together with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry of the Environment and the President of the Government, that certain strategic paths, such as the third development axis, have accelerated the link with the Republic of Croatia, even after the decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, so that we also want to approach Croatia in this way in Slovenia. I myself know that in the area of Croatia, in the area of Karlovac, the so-called Novigrad node, links to the international border crossing of Metlik, that is to say, the connection to the Zagreb-Reka-Split road goes extremely fast and there, despite some complications, may also be somewhat political, because during the pre-election campaign, things are moving faster. I am confident that we will also implement the third development axis in the Republic of Slovenia within the mandate of the next government and that this connection between Slovenia and Croatia will also be made. Let me stress, however, that, in conjunction with local communities, this is also an important step for IPA Slovenia-Croatia projects. This is also the work of local communities, i.e. individual municipalities. I will gladly support the proposal for the position of the Republic of Slovenia on the accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. Surely it is right that he has overcome reason, both in the referendum and now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u121	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor to prepare Mrs Wheeler or Mr Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u122	Thank you very much. Say good-bye again! Let me first say that I am pleased to see our colleague Renato Brunskole again here because I was already afraid that she was involved in some kind of philanthropy project to help elderly citizens at the Ljubljana Master's. In fact, after that procession on the Master's Degree, a colleague of mine who was not interested in politics said excitedly that they were only older, but in the meantime there was one student who probably helped me through the stairs, and then I looked at the picture in a few days and I saw that in that environment you really looked full as a teenager, so to praise. Now, on this matter that we have on hand today. Today, as we have said before, we have a proposal for a treaty and a position on the treaty. Since we are legalists in the SDS, we are aware that we must and also respect already ratified international treaties, we are aware that at this stage we can do nothing but accept the facts. Some want to encourage us that we are not legalists, that we should not respect ratified international treaties. This does not mean that we must not say or point out that in this area we have also had a bad government in these three years, which has entered into some agreements that do not provide a good outcome. It is possible, solid, but more likely for the maritime position of Slovenia the result will be poor. It must therefore be said that in many areas we have achieved less in these negotiations than we could have achieved. The problem of the Ljubljana Bank and the problem of savers has not been solved, although Croatia does not respect the success agreement, that it always delays it and always delays it and causes us international problems, because in some ways we are muddy, as if Slovenians, Slovenian banks and the Slovenian state are a problem in relation to savers, although it has been a problem for many years with the success agreement completely clear where those savers belong. However, we did not have a government that could resolve this in the framework of negotiations, but there were many opportunities. My colleague has already said that the burden of radioactive waste and the problem of decommissioning will weigh us down because that agreement signed by Mr Kopač, the then Minister of the Environment, is a bad agreement, as it allows Croatia to escape and will never implement it. Then there are other areas. We have already talked about what is once ahead of us, so at this point Slovenia will also participate in the introduction of this Treaty and procedures for ratification. However, I say that I hope that after December 4 we will once again have a capable government, which can also, as the arbitration agreement provides for happiness, reach a reasonable agreement with Croatia without arbitration. Croatia has now made an extremely good use of the fact that Slovenia has a weak government and has imposed an arbitration agreement on it under such conditions. A strong government that will look at Slovenian interests – I hope that we will not have a government that will look south at the price of Slovenian interests, that it will realize any private capital interests there and its ministers. This must be avoided by the Slovenians. They must place a strong government with elections that will fight for Slovenian interests, and in this case we can avoid the disastrous consequences, the bad consequences of arbitration, because a strong Slovenian government would ensure that an agreement can be reached with Croatia before an arbitration agreement that would ensure the Slovenian route to international waters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u123	Thank you. Mrs. Brunskole answered the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u124	Thank you very much. I thank my colleague Jerovšk for making me feel younger in some way, but let me tell him that I was present yesterday at the White Krajina Forum, where there was also talk about the importance of resolving Croatia's entry into the European Union, as economists at the border both at Vinika and in Metlika and in Semić and Montenegro estimate that this would certainly be for the benefit of this area. Thank you for noticing, you may have noticed that I was present at the vote tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Puksic has the floor. Mr Györek, Mrs Bizjak Mlakar, Mr Jelinčič, Mr Grims, or Mrs Lovtijar Bebler, are to be prepared. Here you go, Mr. Puksich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u126	Thank you very much. Good-bye! There's a lot of work these days, and a man's dealing with a million and another thing, so sometimes some show surprises you. However, a nice greeting, Mr Vice President, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! I must say clearly and loudly that in the Slovenian People's Party we have always supported Croatia's entry into the European Union and, of course, in the Slovenian People's Party, we have always advocated a just and fair solution to the border agreement. I'm afraid this thing didn't happen. Again and again, we have also warned that the responsible, especially the Ministry and Government, are underlying the historical and actual right of Slovenia to the entire Piran Bay and thus maintaining Slovenia's access to the high seas, as Slovenia has always been a maritime state. If that is not the case, the question arises as to who will be responsible. Unfortunately, historically, no one is. What you lose once, you never get back. We have also pointed out in the arbitration agreement that it is most important to properly determine the subject matter of the dispute, not just an agreement, a decision-making procedure. Members and Members of the Slovenian People's Party in the National Assembly have made an effort to reach a secret meeting of the Committee on Foreign Policy, but we have not come up with more than this to discuss the subject of the dispute. The subject of the dispute in view of the unfortunately harmful arbitration agreement – colleague Brunskole said earlier that the Slovenians had met their minds. That means that everyone else, 49 percent and a few percent, who voted against the arbitration agreement, is foolish of you. Yes, as many incomprehensibles have shown this government in its operation, this poor woman cannot complete her mandate, as has been the case with every coalition. With the fact that Members have not addressed this subject of dispute, that we do not know, I am confident that there will be more wisdom in the new composition of Parliament and indeed more intelligence in the coalition, that the National Assembly will address not only the final facts that are before us today, the Treaty on the Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union, but that we will discuss and decide on certain matters before, but not that we are put into an enforceable reality. Of course, I am counting on it, and I am counting on it that we will write in the subject of the dispute everything we need, because nothing helps us if we have an arbitral tribunal and if we have arguments on our side, but we have not written this down in the subject of the dispute itself. Otherwise, one does not know, but it is obvious that the Government and the Prime Minister, who wanted to please in their departures, would want to please and forget the national interest. And if there's a national interest in this country, then it was, and it will remain access to the open sea. If you remember how Slovenia applied reservations to the 11 negotiating chapters at the accession conference on 19 December 2008. At 7 p.m., Slovenia decided that Croatia, according to its belief in the accompanying documents, had directly or indirectly prejudiced the border. At four, however, Slovenia had other concerns. And what is left of these concerns, reservations at this accession conference? In the end, there was nothing left, and the question is why. For the last two decades, we have experienced, I can say, in this foreign policy area, precisely in the area of resolution with Croatia, two methods, two solutions. The first one was Drnovskov. God bless him. It was a policy of pragmatic waiting. Another was Pahor's way, a policy of pragmatic action. Whoa, let's go. Of course, not the policy of pragmatic action, nor the policy of waiting has been or is not the best. It turns out there's too much volunteerism in each other. And political volunteerism of central Slovenian politics has simply become a fate for Slovenia. Unfortunately, this pragmatism, political volunteerism, has too many times taken a view of pragmatism, trade and daily political interests, and unfortunately abandoned the national interest, which I have already talked about. You know, if we look back historically, you don't actually wonder if Slovenia's political summit is also supposed to be a Parliament, because unfortunately too many things are left to the executive branch, but it is legally considered to only burn through the government coalition, despite the fact that in such matters we should seek, regardless of what the coalition is, a wider national interest. At the end of this technical work, however, the National Assembly will decide to enter, and then another majority will be needed if nothing else is to happen. I'm sure he'll be so smart at least this time, because this time it seems to me that at least in our time it's one of the opportunities that we can't waste it and even do to me what's happened historically. For example, when they wrote in the declaration of the United Slovenia in 1848, what the Slovenians demanded of the emperor at the time, the emperor was addressed by more than 10,000 Slovenes, masters and masters. What about the central Slovenian policy? But she said no if they just wrote something like that. This was about the same as the agreement agreed at ministerial level with Brussels three years ago. The State Secretary from the Ministry of European Affairs also wrote a letter to Brussels, since those two ministers do not know what they were talking about. You know, it's gonna be like we're gonna say. And because of that and that, we are today at a catastrophic point in the use of European funds. The opportunistic policy was also repeated in 1868, in 1918 with regard to the Maistra the same. Thank God he was born in Kamnik and lived in Maribor. That is why I am speaking today in this House, otherwise I would probably be sitting somewhere in Vienna. With regard to plebiscite in Koroška it was exactly the same, the same story happened, in 1941 with ideological, political division into the Ljubljana province, in 1945 with regard to Trieste, and similar in 1954 when Zone B joined. Even in 1990 and 1991, were pragmatic fears of — who or what? Before that loss a few stores and, above all, before the loss of holidays, holiday homes and so on at sea. Do you remember the recent history of our President Danil Türk's visit to Trakoscjan, where Croats lifted the wrong flag, turned their backs differently and so on? You think that's an accident? In the Slovenian People's Party, we will always, then and later, strive to ensure that the border between the Republic of Croatia and Slovenia is fairly and honestly resolved. This is a national interest and this national interest is worth the generations that are coming after us, but they will defend that they will not say in 200 years in Parliament what we have spent, as we are today reading documents from the 18th century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u127	Thank you. Replica, Mrs. Brunskole.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u128	Thank you very much. My friend Pukšič, I would ask you not to convert words. I told them that the agreement led people to reason and that they had made decisions and acted wisely. So don't talk about them being crossed by reason, because that's not true. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u129	Thank you. Mrs. Darja Lavtijar Bebler, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u130	The somi replicas were actually taken all the time. I just wanted to say that the answer to the obvious was that we rushed to the boards needlessly to deal with this contract. Firstly, it was also said that the whole text of the Accession Treaty was based on the texts of the EU's common positions for the temporary closure of individual chapters. Our committee has already come to know all these chapters, and we have nothing new ahead of us that we would not have known before. Secondly, all major developments concerning the handling of this Treaty and the signing will take place at a time when our National Assembly will be disbanded when the new Parliament is not yet established, and we will also not have a new government. So it's not irrelevant. And today I could not even understand if I were not present at many, all in fact, closed board meetings, how some of them perform differently in public today, and there they were causing us great problems, obstructing us, discontenting us, causing indiscretion and criticizing the Government of the Republic of Slovenia all the time, and also this national assembly, which has been working to get through all these negotiating points and chapters as soon as possible. So today I can find out that I am pleased to appreciate that we have done some great work and that we have had what [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u131	Thank you very much. Would you like a representative or a representative of the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, pursuant to Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it. There is no interest, so I conclude the debate. As the committee responsible for the proposal did not adopt the amendments, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. The assembly will decide on a proposal for a position in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, in 15 minutes, that is at 13.30. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 1:30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u132	Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Please calm down and take your seats. We are moving on to a meeting of the assembly, which is to vote on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. Before we proceed to the vote, I inform you that Mrs Irena Virant, Member of the National Assembly, died during the period 1996-2000. We'll honor her memory with a minute of silence. / minute silence/ Keep it in permanent memory. We continue with the 28th item on the agenda, which is the 2010 Report on the Commission's work on the supervision of intelligence and security services. You have a procedural proposal, Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u133	Dear President! Last night we got to the table – the day before yesterday wears, 17. Ten. – Agreement on the work of the National Assembly at the time of discharge. I must say that there are some such findings and arrangements that go beyond the rules of procedure and the constitution. This college cannot and cannot do this, so I am procedurally proposing that by the end of this meeting or by tomorrow's extraordinary meeting, you prepare a proposal whereby the National Assembly, as such, or we will find out how Members and Members will continue to work, or by the rules of procedure which clearly states that, in order to decide which matters will be decided at the meeting of the National Assembly, a simple majority, as it is called, will be qualified, or will we work with a two-thirds majority. If you want to change the rules in this way to move past the rules of procedure, then at least what is in the rules of procedure must be done to enable the National Assembly to decide by a two-thirds majority, i.e. with at least 60 Members, that by the time of the new situation, it will be working in this way. However, he cannot make such a decision and decide how the National Assembly will work. We have a constitution and we have a small constitution called the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which clearly determines how these rules are handled. No one else can do that. And even when I looked at the tapegram of the college meeting of 14. 10. There is absolutely no debate, there is no way to understand what they wanted to achieve from some of the complex proposals. And in the end, for example, the explanation of Plevelja and the appendix to the divisor, so, as it is said, my proposal is quite clear that by the end of this meeting you will be informing us how we will remedy this situation, which is made contrary to the rules of procedure in this agreement. At the very least, I have also proposed that you extend tomorrow's extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly to discuss this agreement and, if possible, accept it if it is indeed an agreement of 60 or two thirds of Members to work on it in this way. I would not like to take part in some matters, in order to make it appear later that some agreements have been made over the Rules of Procedure, past the Constitution, but the National Assembly can do so, decide by a qualified majority at a time when it has not been dissolved, and since then these rules have been clear. I regret that you have not even invited the business commission into these agreements. If we had, we would have responded, but we could not have known that you were preparing something because we had not been informed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u134	Thank you. Actually, I don't thank you for misusing the rules of procedure, Mr. Anderlich. We have point 28, which speaks of completely different things. With regard to your college arrangement, open your questions when you're there. Your Group of Members is also a member of the College. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for views and conclusions on the report on the work of the Supervisory Commission. What desire to explain your voice? No, no, no. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 38. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 38.]] I find that the conclusions are not accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 27th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a recommendation to the Annual Report of the Ombudsman of the Republic of Slovenia for 2010. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 74 votes against none. [[The vote was 74.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the recommendation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 12th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Criminal Procedure Act. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 49 votes against 4. [[The vote was 49.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Criminal Procedure Act. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 53 votes against none. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the suspension of the 13th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the proposal for a law on procedures for the enforcement or dismissal of the liability of shareholders for the obligations of deleted companies under the regular procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 1. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Mass Valuation of Real Estates. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 50 votes in favour, 4 votes in favour. [[The vote was 50.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Financial Conglomerates Act. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 18th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Guarantees of the Republic of Slovenia for the Financing of Investments of Economic Companies. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the bill would not be harmonised. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 25th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decree supplementing the Regulation on the scheme for the sale of state-owned assets for 2010 and 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2011. We are moving on to Article 1 and to the decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Vizjak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u135	Your Honor! The Decree on the sale of State property also contains the resale of a 25 % stake in the Slovenian steel industry. This is an option offer that expires at the beginning of next year and is important for the existence of the Slovenian steel industry. Let me remind you that in the last term we sold the majority stake in the Slovenian steel industry to the Russian investor and in addition to the purchase, we also received a number of commitments after reinvesting profits in updates in the Slovenian steel industry, maintaining jobs. A shareholder agreement has been concluded which gives a country with 25 % of the share of a significant right, i.e. more rights than would have been derived solely from that share. The sale of the remainder, i.e. 25 %, means that we can say goodbye to the Slovenian steel industry. In fact, if we lose this controlling share, the majority owner can have a completely free hand in all statutory changes, can move the company's seat, can change its name and so on. I am confident that the logic of the market and capital will do its part and that it will shut down this company with all the business functions it has today if we allow this share to be sold off. Respectable, not for a few ten million euros to risk one important sector in the Republic of Slovenia, such as the Slovenian steel industry or the steel industry. This is what you do if you allow this share to be sold off. The amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party prevents this sale, and if you are interested in the development of the steel industry and also in all the business functions that the Slovenian steel industry has at this moment, you will be able to support this amendment. But if you don't care what happens to the business functions of the Slovenian industry in the future, whether it will remain just a branch of production where there will be other business results and profits from abroad, and then this is another story, and we don't want to be part of this funeral of the Slovenian steel industry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u136	Thank you. Does anyone want to explain their voice on their behalf? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 40. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. Anybody want to explain their voice? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 36. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 36.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We're done voting on the amendments. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that because of the amendments adopted on the home labour body, since the amendments were not adopted at the meeting, the proposal of the law was inconsistent. We are voting on the ruling as a whole. I'm breaking up. I didn't allow my voice to be explained. First, on behalf of the parliamentary groups – does anyone want to explain his voice? Just one hand. Mr. Visac, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u137	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Another option is to prevent the sale of 25 % of the Slovenian steel industry. This is to reject this decree or to vote against it, and the Slovenian Democratic Party will vote against it. We have some practices in Slovenia where the majority or 100% owner of a certain company outside the Republic of Slovenia and has only some production in Slovenia. In this production it may also have other development functions, but on the basis of transfer prices it directs all business that takes place in this company. These companies do not do business with profits because they cross transfer prices into centres outside the Republic of Slovenia. That's capital logic, and it's perfectly logical to do that. The 25% share in the Slovenian steel industry prevents such an example from being the Slovenian steel industry. Let me remind you that in the last 3, 4 years, since the Russian partner has invested a lot in the Slovenian industry; about EUR 400 million has been invested in updates, so that is how much profits have been reinvested. This profit won't always be reinvested. He was reinvested as a result of the purchase contract commitments. Then this profit will go out, and I wonder if this 50, 60 million euros, as far as we get for the purchase, will offset the loss that we will have in the coming years at the expense of these consequences that I am talking about. Once again, the Republic of Slovenia is a partner in the Slovenian steel industry with a shareholder agreement, has two members of the Supervisory Board, has an important weight in cooperation, management and supervision in society. And all this, Your Honor, falls from selling this share. I don't want to speculate on what's going to happen next. This gives the Russian partner full authority to do what he wants with the Slovenian steel industry in the future. I think that this is not good and that this is a strategic sector in this country, and given that it is a strategic sector, it is right that the state retains a 25% share.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u138	Thank you. Does anyone else want to do it on their own? I can only see one hand. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. We had already decided on the decision one month ago as part of the budget consideration, and that decision was rejected. At that time, nothing dramatic or fatal has happened that we should make that decision again. Nor is it because the Capital Investment Management Agency has not developed a State-owned management strategy at that time, although the deadline has already been extended twice. The government didn't accept it. However, they do come just before the end of their term of office at the State Assembly table of decisions, which will also be crucial to what will happen to state property. In this particular case, the State is giving up the control share, that is to say that the minimum guard is to keep the company in Slovenia at all. The owner who buys this check will do what he wants with this company and will be able to move it and so on. It is not only a matter of change in business policy on the one hand when this account takes place on some reference or internal scenes, which will also regulate the profits of this company. It is also about the fact that, at the end of the term of office, when the Government no longer has any powers, we take judicial decisions relating to the human resources policy for the mandate or more further, as well as certain decisions that do not have any basis in the government's adopted documents. The government did not accept what would happen to state property, but it did come past the strategy in the National Assembly after the decision. It is therefore not possible to support this motion for a decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u140	Thank you. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 38 votes against 34. [[The vote was 38.]] [[Against 34.]] I take it that the House has adopted the proposed decree. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law amending and supplementing the Housing Law We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary groups; I see only one hand. Mr. Run, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! These are questions between 150 and 170 housewives who live in apartments that have been denationalized and still do housework. They were also carried out when the law was passed in 1991, because for those who were of their own free will because they no longer wanted to be housewives, they left these homes, and the law does not apply. They would be entitled to the same alternative privatisation as was the case for tenants in denationalised apartments. It is said that the owners of these apartments would not be newly damaged or burdened with anything, and that the total amount over the next five years would also have been found by the Government and our proponents to be approximately 13 million. This is one of the issues that we have not been able to resolve in years because we have interpreted the difference in the formal name from before 1990 as restrictive and to the detriment of the housewives. The previous laws did indeed have — one said that the housekeeper was a tenant in a household apartment, and at a certain time it was written that he was the holder of the right to use his household. This made a difference between the State and former housing rights holders not to grant certain rights to former holders of the right of use. A large and extensive study was carried out by the Maribor Real Estate Institute, which found that the difference was only and only in the name that the actual content of rights was the same in both cases. The one who had the so-called housing right in a household apartment or the right to use a household apartment had to work as a janitor, had to work today, and had no chance of voluntarily quitting work or leaving the apartment. If he did it, he didn't have any rights. Another question was asked why now. I'd like to tell you that this is a topic that we've been dealing with for 10 years. I hope that we have matured to resolve this issue as well. However, it was tabled by 15 Members of the 5 parliamentary groups on 30 June, when no one knew about the early elections, so do not acknowledge that this decision is in any way linked to the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u142	Thank you. Anyone else want a word on their behalf? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 48 votes against 28. [[The vote was 48.]] [[Against 28.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 14th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the proposal for a law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. Since the Legislative and Legal Service has already pointed out that after the third reading, due to the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body, the proposal for a law was not harmonised, the proposal prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 11 which you received at the bench. Would you like to speak to the proposaler about the harmonisation amendment? Here you go, Mr. Vizjak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u143	Your Honor! The law on the conditions of concession for energy exploitation of the Lower Sava is an extremely important law, allowing for the accelerated continuation of the construction of hydroelectric power plants on the Lower Sava. It is not only an important energy project in renewable sources, but it is also an important environmental project, a project that protects us from floods in Posavia, a project that enables us to raise groundwater in the Krk-Breške field and thus allow better farming conditions, and a whole bunch of other positive effects of this law on people's lives and activities. Of course, we want this law to be enforced as soon as possible and to apply and thus ensure the smooth financing of the construction of hydropower plants on the Lower Sava. I'll continue when you stop talking, including the chairman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u144	Thank you very much. The chairman was not talking, but he was talking about working on the meeting. As far as you're concerned, you do this very often, and I won't warn you. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u145	Dear Vice President, I was talking, not talking, but you were talking when I was talking. Your Honor! It is an important law, and we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and as a proposaler would say only that the harmonisation amendment was created on the basis of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home labour force, and therefore the reference to the programme of implementation of the Infrastructure Implementation Programme is now defined in Article 8, while we had it in the old version in Article 11, and therefore it is purely a technical or editorial amendment, so that we can only properly define the reference to the programme of implementation of infrastructure arrangements. [[...]] Your Honor, the substantive amendment does not interfere with the law. The amendment merely aligns the text of the law with the amendments adopted in the second reading at the meeting of the home working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u146	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? They can talk for five minutes. [[They don't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the harmonisation amendment to Article 11 of the Act. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 8. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against the 8th.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[He doesn't want to.]] So apply to those who wish to explain your voice in a personal name. Mr. Janez Fishich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u147	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I need to get back to you and explain my voice. In fact, in the 13 years of trembling at every fall in the rain at our end, in Styria along the Drava River, I wonder where the resources from the Drava power plants that are destined for this water fund are going, and at the end nothing is coming back. For 13 years we have been building an anti-float between Maribor and Ptuj, on the left bank of Drava, but in vain. The trunk of Drava is healed because it is not regularly maintained, and it seems to me that the funds of the water fund are unfairly distributed across Slovenia. That is why I think it will be necessary for future governments to be more concerned with this. On the part of the ministers to whom I have asked the question, there have never been any answers or there has been a diversion or a transfer of responsibility to someone else. That is why I would like to see once and also to allocate funds from this maintenance fund. I'll vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr Franz Bogovich will explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u149	Nice hello to you all! Given that I was very active at the local level when we put a hydro power plant project on the Lower Sava into a place where, unfortunately, our late colleague Kristian Jance and I had done a great deal in order to make sure that something had also been done in the Slovenian space in the area of flood protection, we were convinced that the law that was adopted at the time was sufficient for the construction of the entire chain of hydroelectric power plants on the Lower Sava. Given the circumstances in which we are located, such a proposal for a law, of which I am also a co-proposer, is a suitable basis for making investments in the spirit of European energy policy, in the spirit of the start-up of the Slovenian economy, as well as the arrangements for flood protection in the Posavia area. I am convinced that this law is also a good basis for the process to take place both in the Central Sava and in the Mure area, and that this will continue to be an example of good practice in the Slovenian space where private participation is referred to as energy, money and public money. On my part, too, there have been observations and criticisms about the work of the Ministry of the Environment lately. It took a good year and a half to make every effort to bring the President of the Government to Posavia to see that this is a project that is a real project for times of crisis, a project that needs to be followed, but unfortunately there have always been a lot of obstacles to the second part. I wish, like other colleagues from our parliamentary group, that the future of the water sector will do better than it has done so far. And I will be very happy to support this marriage myself.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u151	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will vote against this law for a simple reason, because I have always warned about an unfair and irregular concession contract or the way in which this chain of power plants is financed. I certainly support the construction of power plants, but every power plant is spinning and electricity is generated from this rotation, which could also pay for the construction of the infrastructure needed to do so, from road to water. We do not just collect this law from the Climate Change Fund. The change is also in the use of the water fund. That is why we are even threatened that the water fund will literally kneel or we need to ask ourselves what will happen to other areas in Slovenia, where nothing is happening now. Perhaps because of insufficient activity at the Ministry of Environment and Space, I also allow it. However, because of these burdens, this fund will be kneeling in the years to come, and we can therefore expect that there will be a number of other areas in the future, not only Savinja and Sora, but Ljubljana, in recent times, practically a third of Ljubljana's environmental work, but also many in Slovenia. For this reason, I am convinced that the use of the water fund is wrong or that it is necessary and that these matters will have to be handled differently in the future. That is why I will vote against this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u152	Thank you very much. I've seen a desire to explain my voice, so I'm giving time to apply for an explanation of vote. Mr Matevž Frangež has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u153	As one of those rightly blamed today for the fall of the guarantee for the Šostjanj Termoelectrica, I am extremely fond of building infrastructure for renewable energy sources. Construction of hydroelectric power plants in Central Sava is one of such infrastructures. Even though I am fundamentally inclined to use the concept, I cannot help but see that this law provides for the further withdrawal of resources from the water fund to just one area, while elsewhere in Slovenia, especially in the Drava Valley, which is under flood risk, the need to rehabilitate the Drava stream, and in the current period the primacy of investment in the Sava has also been greatly neglected. This is the reason that I regret this law, despite the policy's preference for renewable resources, I cannot support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u155	Your Honor! The basic purpose of the bill, which I will of course support, was to ensure a stable source of funding for the construction of the remaining two hydropower plants in the lower Sava River, namely the Brežice hydroelectric power plant and the Mokrice hydropower plant. In fact, at the Krško hydroelectric power plant, which is the first higher, there was a problem in providing funds from the Water Fund. The water fund is under pressure from a number of projects to regulate watercourses across the country, which is not least due to climate change and frequent storms. It is precisely this purpose to relieve the water fund and to finance part of the infrastructure, an important part, 90% of the amount, from another, this is the so-called climate fund. The key objective of the bill is, therefore, to burden the water fund with 90% of its obligations until the financing of the construction of hydroelectric power plants continues and we transfer these obligations to the Climate Change Fund. The Climate Change Fund is established on the basis of European Union directives, and investing in renewable resources is 50%, i.e. a dedicated part for this Fund. If you read the directives, you will see that the objective of the climate fund is to finance such investments. Therefore, I am surprised that, as an argument of opposition, the money from the Water Fund is not fairly distributed, as the Water Fund is actually being burdened by this law. It is true, however, that net water arrangements from the Water Fund, such as the management of accumulation inflows and the like, must also be financed after that. This must not be financed by the Climate Fund. That is the point, and I will support this law as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u157	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The signatures themselves under the law and under this harmonisation amendment, which we have already confirmed, are probably a little unusual for this national assembly. But the Committee on the Environment and Space discussed four times the issue of water management in the Republic of Slovenia, and each time we returned to the basic, not dilemma, but the basic conclusion that water fund funds are being used wrongly because of the law on the terms of the concession for the exploitation of the energy potential of the Lower Sava. The Water Act has focused the water fund on investment maintenance, investments in watercourses, to manage it, regulates the water regime to prevent floods and so on. This money was not intended for the construction of hydropower facilities. However, this time the concession contract had already been signed, and at that time nothing could be changed in such a way as to deprive the concessionaire of the right to such funds. Therefore, the refocusing on the climate fund was the only reasonable and economic solution. And that's why we signed this law, and that's why we agreed around it. I think the people who live next to Drava and near Mura and are threatened by the floods, by this law, are essentially getting back the money that is collected in the water fund. That is why this law must be adopted. So let's be reasonable, let's think about one step in front of our nose, but not always think about just what's happening to us right now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u158	Thank you very much. Mr Matjaž Han has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I'm going to vote for this law, and I don't care at this moment if it's signed under this law of mags. Andrej Vizjak, and if he is adopted in the National Assembly because of this law, he will have more political points in these elections. In addition to what colleague Breda Pečan said, that this law relieves the water fund, that these funds will be earmarked for other users, it is also one of the fundamental reasons why we wrote this law. Otherwise, I'd be more pleased if the government suggested it. The fundamental reason was also the Court of Auditors, which found that infrastructure could not be financed from energy work, but must be financed from other sources, and we found this climate fund and thus ensured that the Court of Auditors would not have any comments. It is true, however, that the Social Democrats are a different party than some others, and we do not change our position because of the political situation of the day, like some who have changed their attitude towards the TEC because of the political situation and so on. We think this project is good for Slovenia, for the Slovenian economy, and most of us will support it, regardless of who is the first to be signed under this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u160	Thank you very much. I've seen the interest, Mr. Dove. Is it still an interest? I'm asking if anyone else wants to discuss this subject. Sign up for explanations of vote. Mr. Borut Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u161	Thank you very much. I would ask that in these explanations we really clarify the dilemma whether we have every assurance that the funds of the water fund, which are intended for the repair of watercourses in all the other 210 Slovenian municipalities, are not being withdrawn or exhausted, especially during this transitional period, until the climate fund has been established. If I get confirmation in further explanations that this is true, then the law has my support, otherwise: in Slovenia we have many municipalities, not just those lying next to Savi.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Mr. Gregor Golobič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u163	Thank you very much. I will vote against this law. I think that this debate has shown a range of different interests that conflict with this law and cannot be denied legitimacy, justification, but I do not think that the solution is the right one. Of course, the problem is that in recent years the water fund has been exhausted and engaged for needs for which it has not even been established. Instead of regulating the watercourses so that people living next to Gradaščica, Mozir or elsewhere in Slovenia, where floods threaten them, these watercourses have been pressured by the banks of the Sava River in the lower part. It is right that they are, but the water fund was not set up for this purpose, and the good part of this law is that the water fund is now virtually empty when it is impoverished. However, this law has another side – it burdens another fund that has not yet been created and which must play a completely different role in replacing the outage of what they have now relied on from the water fund to replace the climate fund. There are many tasks ahead of the climate fund in the area of what the country needs to adapt to climate change. And as is generally the case that investors will have to cover environmental burden costs, this must also apply to investors in energy facilities. If there is an exception, then there is a specific risk for buildings which are energy-efficient in the future, not hydroelectric plants that are specific and have to be economically covered including these costs. That's why I don't think this solution as a whole is real. He's addressing the real problem, but we need to find another solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Pukšič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The problem we're facing is this. The country has empty pockets. That's it. And of course an irresponsible attitude, both to the energy programme, even to the water energy programme, which we know is the best energy programme; there is no comparison with other sources such as heat and so on. On the other hand, since 2000, no government has cared about leadership, so it is not surprising that we were swimming from the Poet in 2009 and Dornava, Ptuj, and so on — all flooded. What exactly is to be done right now? To decide between two bad things. If I support the law, they'll say ours: you didn't take care of it or there's no money to fix the watercourses and so on. If I don't support the marriage, then I know on my own that I did something bad because I don't support energy, which is hydroenergy, which is far purest. As an energy person, I cannot do this, as an MEP from that area, I should do it, but this time I will decide what is good for the country. I will support the law, but at the same time I will say and expect all those who will return after 4 December to support the budget or the rebalancing of the water fund budget, that we will also begin to renovate the watercourses. I hope you'll have so much money, as well as principles and honesty.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u166	I've seen reports of voice-explanation. Anyone else who wants to explain their voice, please sign up. Mr. Guido Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u167	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. What's interesting is this debate, this explanation of voice. According to the information I was able to get at this point in time, this is the case. The Water Fund should spend the money it collects. 8 million euros, according to the information I have received, is flowing back into the integrated budget every year instead of working for those responsible. They need to be called to account, show them the door if they are not capable, and let that money be spent where it is needed. Among other things: why don't they start collecting water funds or funds from Slovenian thermals? There's also a part of it in here that can also be used to raise funds. That would be extra to these 8 million, and I think this money could be done. I'll support this marriage. Those who do not do what is right are better off doing what is right. Why would we want to break this law that's in the process today? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u168	Thank you. The vote will explain Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u169	Thank you so much for saying that. The water fund is filled with two parts, one is a concession fee, the other is a water refund. And among those paying for water reimbursements, hydroelectric plants are the largest payer. This means that if we invest in the additional construction of hydro power plants, we also increase the part that will go into the water fund, and this is quite contrary to what Mr Golobič said. Even in this case, when it comes to exploiting the potential of the Lower Sava, this part is about regulating watercourses, because the Lower Sava area is also a flood zone. Remember the flood in Kostanjevica, Brežica and other places near the Lower Savi. It's probably normal for water fund funds to be placed where the projects are. Unfortunately for some other areas there are probably no projects if resources remain in the water fund. It is therefore necessary to support this law, including in order to increase this self-sustainment of energy, and also to increase the resources of water reimbursements paid by hydropower plants to this fund, and to allow investment in other areas when projects are prepared. But it is true that from the time the water runs into the throat, there is no water refund, and that is probably the key problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u170	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? I am putting to the vote a full bill. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 15. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against 15.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia in the framework of the shorter procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since, in the second reading, the amendments to the amended law have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law, and I inform you that neither the Legislative and Legal Service nor the Government have informed me that the amendments adopted on the home body would have made the proposal inconsistent. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u171	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We will not support this bill in our parliamentary group. The reason is relatively simple. Members, with the first-signed France Yuri, proposed a solution that improves the area of conflict of interest in the management of the Foundation for the Financing of Humanitarian and Disability Organisations. This solution is good in this case. We have proposed that the same solution should also be applied to the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations, but for the miracles of the coalition of this proposal has not been accepted. And we find it somewhat inappropriate that from the funds obtained from the Lottery of Slovenia, financed by two foundations, one for the disabled, the other for sports organisations, and in one this prevention of conflicts of interest has been achieved, while in the other it is possible – inconsistent. We have proposed this amendment in good time, properly prepared. A discussion was also announced with the bill's proponents to settle the matter, but that did not happen. Given that we now have a proposal for the composition of the Sports Foundation Council in the procedure of the Mandate-Volution Commission, this amendment would be more than appropriate, as it has proved to be the case in the Council of the Foundation that there is a conflict of interest when those who decide on the use of funds are on the one hand and, on the other hand, through the projects are involved in the marketing of these funds by the Foundation. Given that this solution is inconsistent, we will not vote on the quorum or the law in our parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri, an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u173	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. The Zares Group will support this amendment of the law, because we believe that it is an important step towards creating a more transparent, transparent system for managing the funds under Loteria Slovenije. We agree with certain concerns that have just been expressed in relation to the need for a similar solution to be applied to the other sport foundation. However, it should be added to the explanation that the Sports Foundation already has a rule setting out the limits that we also impose in the case of FIHO. So this is not an automatic and exactly the same situation, but the fact is that this time we went to the Foundations of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations. In the long term, this will have to be regulated in an equivalent manner for the other foundations participating in the Lottery Slovenia concession. So we believe that, despite these concerns and the justification of some observations, it is important that we now confirm this law and establish an appropriate basis for further necessary changes. After all, we have also acceded to this law following the recommendations of certain key supervisory institutions, the Court of Auditors and, in particular, the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, which has also publicly supported this law, and we are aware of the need to continue and complement all those segments that remain inconsistent. But let me explain again. With regard to the sport foundation, we have found that when we were preparing an amendment that was meaningfully very similar to the amendment proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, there are already three restrictions that are compatible with the restrictions set out in this Act or in the Constitution and the rules of the Sports Foundation. Our vote, of course, is in.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u174	Thank you very much. Who else wants to explain their voice in their own name? If there's anyone else, sign in. Mr. Borut Saiovic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u175	Thank you very much. I must say that I will support the proposal, but in the spirit of supporting this proposal I will also vote on the Mandate-Election Commission when we decide on the Sports Foundation. The time in which we live is not the time when certain spheres of interest, political or heritage, for all eternity, are controlled by one and the same. If we have enough people in these functions who have not shown themselves in the past with work, we certainly have enough people in both the one and the other political options to do their job and function in the spirit of the mission for which they have been chosen, and they will not be guided by other interests. On the side of disabled and sports organisations, we have experienced numerous allegations of injustice, abuse and more. The opinions of the authorities we have in this country are also clear, both in the area of the supervision of the Court of Auditors and the Anti-Corruption Commission, and I think we are obliged to take them into account in our actions and decisions. My vote will be for the adoption of this law, so that once we have matters that are not good, we can clear up for the benefit of the beneficiaries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri will explain his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u177	Thank you for your word. I will vote in favour of this law because the law, after years of waiting for the change that is necessary, is finally here, and today we have an opportunity to change the situation that has plagued many of the controversy, even within FIHO itself. As we know, this law supports many humanitarian organisations, a forum of humanitarian organisations. It is also supported by some disability organisations, in particular those who have been discriminated against during these years without access to key decisions. The law or initiative for it was based on a proposal and on the initiative of these NGOs, i.e. on the initiative of directly interested parties who expected from the National Assembly and also from the Government to finally regulate the situation and to prevent further conflicts of interest and even further possibilities of corruption, as indicated by the Anti-Corruption Commission. We did not want to prove or claim that such behaviours were also taking place, but there are possibilities because a system must be established that would actually be sustainable to such temptations. I think that this law will achieve this, so I will vote in favour of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u178	Thank you very much. Mr Jože Tanko will explain his voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u179	Thank you very much. The solution proposed in this law is inconsistent. It refers to one part of the user of public funds, that is to say the Foundation which regulates the operation or financing of disabled and humanitarian organisations and excludes the same identical problem with the Sport Foundation. What's more, the case is worse. At the Sports Foundation, we have the Court of Auditors' opinion that it was inappropriate, improper and I do not know what kind of use of resources, and at the Sports Foundation, we have the opinion of the anti-corruption commission that procedures and actions were such as to have suspicions of corruption. A principled opinion was issued. When we warned about this change, we came across a deaf ear, and it is incomprehensible that the coalition in the National Assembly is going to be allowed to solve one part of the problem, in one institution, in another organization, another problem, which is informed much more and much more correctly, because these things are supported by opinions from independent institutions such as the Court of Auditors and the Anti-Corruption Commission, but do not react, despite the warning and the proposal for an amendment. Everything is regulated in the same article. Everything is regulated in the same article and understands who has to avoid conflicts of interest somewhere and in the second part this conflict of interest is not prevented and is known about it. If I say otherwise, in one part of the spending of public funds from lottery funds, and this in the Sports Foundation, customer behaviour is supported. Therefore, this proposal, such as it is because it is incomplete, incomplete, cannot be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u180	Thank you very much. Mrs Alenka Jeraj has the floor to explain her voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u181	Thank you for your word. The Law on Property Conversion of the Lottery of Slovenia has been amended several times, most often in the work that determines the composition of both foundations, both the Sport Foundation and the Foundations for Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations. In doing so, we have been Members several times before decisions relating to whether fair representation is specifically at the FIHO Foundation between disability and humanitarian organisations, whether the true relationship between the number of members and, as a result, also means a fair distribution of the funds shared by the Foundation among its members. The novelty brings changes in the number and relationship between members of the world coming from disabled and humanitarian organisations, and what is worth supporting is a reduction in the number of members, because this means rationalisation and we support it in the SDS. However, given that the two foundations were repeatedly under the scrutiny of the Court of Auditors, the Anti-Corruption Commission and other bodies, they would expect to be supported by provisions that would limit the possibility of conflicts of interest or possibly illegality. We haven't been successful at this. We proposed an amendment that was not approved. Moreover, the Government has been offering to us all the time to accept as Director of the Human Sports Foundation, which has been proven to have violated the law and that the Foundation has not led in accordance with the law. I can't support that law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u182	Thank you very much. Mrs Andreja Črnak Meglič will explain her vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u183	Thank you very much. I will support the law because it has been waiting too long for the changes that the competent institutions have indicated for a long time. This is a problem with the transparency of the business of this organisation, which has EUR 20 million. The issue is that there is a conflict of individual applications when those who receive these funds decide to do so. The law therefore follows these changes, which are necessary and which have been recorded in the official documents, and we are also reminded of this by the organisations involved in this process and who have been discriminated against, in the first place, by a disability organisation which has not been able to participate equally in the process, and on the other hand by humanitarian organisations, which constitute an increasingly important segment of this company in the field of the implementation of activities and the necessary support. Over and over again, there has been a pattern that has been exaggerated or that their voice has not been heard. The fact is that this change is necessary and needs to be implemented now. Of course, further changes are needed, as the anti-corruption commission points out in its opinion. And since we didn't open individual articles, we couldn't solve everything. It is true, however, that all segments are not in the same position, because if it solves the rules of certain shortcomings that we solve with the law, of course we cannot say that we will completely reject the law because it does not treat the same. The next steps are urgently needed, and I am sure that the problems will be solved in the same way. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u184	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? We are voting on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Conversion of Lottery of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 7. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against the seven.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Employment Rehabilitation and Employment of Persons with Disabilities under the ordinary procedure We are moving on to a decision on the amendment tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. Ten. 2011. It is a matter of deciding on the amendment of the Group of Non-Aligned Members to Article 35. Mr. President, would you like a word? Here, you have the floor, an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u185	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will support the amendment. I already said in the opinion of the Group yesterday that I expect this amendment to be adopted, despite the fact that we should have corrected it earlier, but unfortunately we did not. It is not only the disabled companies' fault that this ratio of disabled persons to others has not changed from 40% to 50% in order to obtain the right to certain statutory ratings. And it is certainly impossible to do business, business plans and business strategy to adapt in such a short time. So I estimate that this is suddenly a great pressure on disabled companies, despite the fact that we have resolved a lot of things with this law, but there is still this one, I could say, a small thing that would be good for them to listen to and thus enable disabled companies to function normally in the 50% disabled system. If we want to do well with disability organizations or people with disabilities, we will support this amendment. We'll be in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Please apply for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Mr Radovan Žerjav has the floor. Mr. Žnidaršič, I give you my word. First, Mr. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u187	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will support this amendment myself, especially for this. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u188	Excuse me, Mr. Zerjav. You will explain your voice on your behalf. Mr. Žnidaršič, on behalf of the Group of Members? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u189	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I pressed the wrong button before, but I wasn't reported. Thank you so much for the opportunity. Our Group of Members will support the matter. We believe that it is necessary to extend the deadline for the implementation of this law, because in our interviews with a number of disabled companies, we have found that there are too many people who will be affected by the matter so much that there will be major problems in terms of providing 50% coverage to disabled persons in individual disability organisations. We are aware of the fact that the delay in the implementation of other matters in the law has been earlier, but this does not help those who will not be able to achieve this censorship, this condition. And that is why we appeal to all of us to have this opportunity and to support solutions such as have been put in place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u190	Thank you very much. I suppose no one wants a word on behalf of the Group of Members. In your own name, Mr. Zerjav, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u191	Thank you very much. I'm going to support this amendment too, because I think it's mostly life. It seems unacceptable to me that individual business entities, which are disabled companies, would be forced to forgive healthy people in order to catch this percentage because of this administrative measure of hunting for these 50% disabled persons in a disability company. This seems really too radical to me, and I think it would be good for us to give these companies a chance for years to move slowly this year, of course, with some adaptation strategy, to this 50%. It seems to me that we will, however, do too much damage with this measure, especially because there are virtually no other options overnight, to get a percentage of people with disabilities to forgive healthy people. Well, that seems a little harsh, though. So, let's support this amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u192	Thank you very much. Andrej Črnak Meglič would like to explain her voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u193	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I know it's a pleasure to be liked, but it is necessary to tell the history of the contents of this amendment. An appropriate European directive was adopted in 2008 indicating how state aid funds can be allocated. As early as 2007, the government of Janez Janša began negotiations with disabled companies and reminded them of what would happen. It's been four years for adjustments. And nothing happened. It is easier to obtain MPs and to hunt electoral votes for an amendment, which is contrary to the European Directive. And we will adopt a law that will go against what we have committed ourselves to respect the European acquis. I think it's a case that belongs in another country that we've been talking about with a laugh. Now we have voluntarily entered into a relationship whose order we must respect. And we're not gonna do anything about it. In addition, disabled companies will not lose the status of a disabled company if the condition is not met. This condition we are talking about applies only to investments. So there's a lot of scheming. And once again, this law will not enter into force if we adopt this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u194	Thank you very much. I still see the interest in explaining the voice. Anyone who wishes to explain his voice in his own name, please sign up. Mr. Andrej Magajna, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u195	I hope this amendment is adopted. It's some logical transition period to make things right. Regarding this talk, what was and what was not, I would wonder why it took three years for the marriage to take place. Okay, we're not gonna solve anything by saying who's guilty, it's marriage, and every marriage has to have some real transition period. Disability companies did not know when the law would come into force, but the problem is that such a short period could cause another major problem. Not only is it difficult to obtain at once in one company with 100 employees, but of these 40 disabled people, 10 new disabled persons, the problem can also be that some, if they want to meet the law, will even have to forgive in order to achieve this quota. Let's be aware that the law, the law needs one transition, one transitional period, and let's give this opportunity and not talk about history, let's make it possible that these disabled companies can adapt and that the disability will not be forgiven from these companies.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We're moving on to the vote on the amendment. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 24 votes against 25. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. The government has warned us that, following the third reading of the draft law on the grounds of the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body, it is not harmonised and has therefore prepared a harmonisation amendment to Article 17, which we have already received at the bench. Does the representative of the government want to explain? [[He doesn't want to.]] Do Members and Members want the word? [[They don't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it, I conclude the debate. We are moving to a vote on the Government's harmonisation amendment to Article 17 of the law. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, 50 votes against none. [[The vote was 50.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the harmonisation amendment has been adopted. In view of the adoption of the harmonisation amendment, we can move on to a full decision on the law. Anybody want a word? [[He doesn't want to.]] We are moving on to a decision on the bill as a whole. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 45 votes against 1. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 4th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law supplementing the Act on the Re-establishment of Agrarian Communities and the Return of Their Property and Rights within the framework of the shorter procedure We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Mr. Križman, do you want an explanation of the vote in your own name or on behalf of the Group of Members? On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr Marian Križman, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u197	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Just a few words about the marriage that's ahead of us. The act on the re-establishment of agrarian communities has long since been adopted and has also been several times more or less successful. The last novel makes it easier for members of the agrarian communities to do those activities and those operations that you've been tracking in the material and those that were discussed yesterday by representatives of the sent groups. This is, of course, as has been said, and I myself agree with this very small step in solving the problems of agrarian communities, because the existing law does not allow for major changes, especially those not most wanted in the agrarian community, and this is to become a legal person and to extend the time limit for the admission of members of agrarian communities, since there are almost as many of them out there since 2001. If you look at the Internet, you'll see that the members of the agrarian community are already some sort of legal person, an unfair legal person might say, but that's how they act. As was said yesterday in most of the introductory words, Croatia, of course, and in particular Austria, which has this best arranged, and Italy and Germany have this so arranged that members of the agrarian community are legal persons and have things arranged so that they can decide everything. Since we have gone the other way and this has become a subject of hereditary law, this law has gone into a dead end and is difficult or almost impossible to use. The predictions of all those who discussed yesterday and those we met on the round tables that a new law must be made, the agrarian community law – this is absolutely necessary. The debate on agrarian communities has brought at least something good to open up the widest debate and that there have been points that are most important, and this is to change the law as soon as possible, so that it will benefit people not to get in the way. The novelty of the law before us will, of course, be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u198	Thank you very much. More shall be applied for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Please sign up if you want to discuss or explain your voice. Mr Borut Saiovic will explain his vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The Law on Agrarian Communities is an important law, it enjoys wide support in Parliament and also the support of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, as we were one of the co-workers of the initiators and preparers in these procedures. What's this all about? Agrarian communities cover a large area in Slovenia and management on this area is limited due to non-life legislation. The key problem is that agrarian communities cannot obtain building permits for barns, pastoral dwellings that fall due to age due to unfinished hereditary procedures. On the other hand, due to the incomplete relationships between municipalities, companies cannot issue consents for water wells, for water reservoirs, for land crossings. At this point, we have come across a serious constitutional problem, whether three-quarters of the consent and opinion can be obtained before the succession can be completed without those who have not yet completed the succession process. The solution proposed is relatively blue, compromise, in the interest of a court-appointed authority. Above all, the proposal makes sense because the assets of all, including those that have not yet completed the succession procedures, will increase with these procedures and will eventually inherit more, better, additional assets than if this does not happen. Therefore, I think that the solution that solves some of the problems, but not all of them, is worth all the support; it will benefit all the agrarian communities in Slovenia. Of course, there is still much work to be done in this area. On what will be the final legal status of these agrarian communities, however, I hope that the next call of the National Assembly will be decided. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Please explain your vote on behalf of the Group of Members, Franz Bogovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u201	Good-bye! Also in the Slovenian People's Party we support the complementary proposal of the law. Throughout the entire mandate, our parliamentary group has met people working with agrarian communities, particularly a group operating within the Agriculture and Agriculture Chamber, which has also warned and prepared solutions in this direction. We were pleased to see the bill tabled by our fellow Member, Mr Marian Križman, and we fully support it. In the context of the debate that preceded the process and I think that it was a very democratic way, because at the joint meeting there were about 150 people facing problems related to agrarian communities, it was also found that the predecessors had already said that this was probably the first step, the one that was possible at the moment, that we would allow this three-quarters quorum to manage these lands, which was a problem so far, that there was still a whole type of uncertainty in this area and that a more serious approach would be needed. This more serious approach, which awaits our successors, is certainly in the adoption of the Agrarian Community Act, and in this area there is also a strong tendency for a service to be organised within the Ministry, even the Commissioner for Agriculture Communities was said in the parable, which is also the practice in some other countries where such property constitutes an important part of the ownership of agricultural land and forests. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, we once again support this law and we want to complement what we have failed in this mandate in the future.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u202	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? Mr. Yuri, explain your voice in your own name, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u203	Thank you very much, Chairman. At the beginning of the year, we sent Dejan Levanič, Matevž Frangež, Marian Križman and ourselves to the Government a parliamentary initiative that we wanted to establish a principle whereby 80% of all rights holders in the agrarian community could decide. This initiative was created on the basis of an absurd problem that occurred in the case of the construction of the first Slovenian wind power plant on Slovenian Kras. I am pleased, and I also have to stress here the help of my colleague Sajovice and the active work of Marian Križman, that there has been almost equal solutions with better additions to it, and I hope that this legal absurdity, which blocked the first wind power plant, will be resolved in a short time and that we will soon be able to produce clean energy in the area of Sennożec. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Can we get to the vote? I am putting to the vote a proposal for a law, and before that, I inform you that neither the Legal and Legal Service nor the Government has warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the labour force, the proposal of the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the interruption of the 10th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the Agricultural Forestry Chamber of Slovenia is not suitable for further consideration. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 7. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against the seven.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I therefore note that the legislative procedure for the bill has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Prevention of Restrictions on Competition. We're moving on to the third bill of consideration. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the draft law, amendments could not be tabled in the third reading. That is why we can move to a vote on the law. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 51 votes against none. [[The vote was 51.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Company Act under the ordinary procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the law, informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service has not informed me that the amendments adopted at the home labour body or at the meeting of the National Assembly would make the proposal inconsistent. The bill is therefore harmonised and we can vote on it. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, with 65 votes against 4. [[The vote was 65.]] [[Against four.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Basic School Act. Since no amendments to the amended law were tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Mrs Alenka Jeraj, an explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u205	Thank you for your word. We will not support the law in the SDS Group. In the introduction, the minister said it was a minor change. We estimate that these changes are not so small because we are fundamentally interfering with the introduction of another foreign language or the first to move into lower classes of primary school, which we also support in our parliamentary group. However, we do not agree that the first foreign language will be mandatory in the second grade, but optional in the first. We estimate that it would be appropriate for him to be required in the first, or in the second, but not to re-separate the children and be dependent on the school which choice they choose. Major changes are in the case of another foreign language. We estimate that in 2007, when we introduced the second foreign language as a compulsory subject in the last triad, we took an important step forward, also taking into account the recommendations of the EU and other countries where they have been implementing the second foreign language in the higher classes and the first in the first triad for years. Why was such a decision made at that time? Since many of the children were selected for foreign language, the majority of them were decided for another foreign language. Last year, the new government and the new minister found that the introduction of another foreign language was not going according to plans because we lack 260 teachers. We don't know what's changed since then. We didn't get any answers about how much we actually did, what was the lack of teachers, if not. And now they're restoring things to the old one, so that children can choose another foreign language among the choice objects. Ironically, in the introduction to the law we have international comparisons with countries where the second foreign language has been compulsory for years in the last triad. You also introduce optional selection items. At the same time, we wondered whether we were solving the problem of too many teachers or whether it was that burden of students not to have so many subjects, which is what we like to talk about. In short, in the SDS Group we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u206	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, he would like to explain the voice of the Magi. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u207	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. The proposal for amendments to the Basic School Act has been coordinated over time in all necessary professional circles and stakeholders, as well as in the National Assembly. It was originally designed to be much broader, and eventually focused on a number of major changes relating to the numerical evaluation in the third grade, the introduction of compulsory national knowledge tests in the third, sixth, eighth and optional classes of the ninth grade, a wider selection set, which is also supported by optional selection items, including the possibility of increasing the volume by one hour, if the parents agree, because according to statistics Slovenia belongs to those countries of the European Union that are well below the average annual burden of students. Some of the solutions that have now been in the administrative and organisational hands will now be in the hands of the teaching assembly, especially as regards the differentiation of teaching, and some other solutions. Now it's about a foreign language. The introduction of a compulsory other foreign language was accompanied by a lack of agreement between the professional circles in 2007 because there were no professional grounds nor were there adequate qualified staff available for the introduction of a compulsory foreign language. In addition, the involvement of children in the last three years in learning another foreign language as a selection course is so wide that, in fact, the primary school achieves a goal that we all have in common, that is that as many children as possible know two foreign languages. However, it is necessary to leave the door open for that small group of children who do not have so much developed language skills and will not continue to be educated in those areas that require two compulsory foreign languages in secondary school so that they can choose instead a mandatory choice subject in which they can shine and improve their positive self-image. The proposal also follows the findings of the White Paper, and we believe that this has also fulfilled the promise we have made in the coalition agreement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u208	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? [[He doesn't want to.]] In your own name? [[He doesn't want to.]] We're moving to the vote. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 25. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 25.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of agenda item 17, which is the third reading of the draft law on evaluation and recognition of education under the regular procedure Since, in the second reading, the amendments to the amended law have not been tabled, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law, and I inform you that neither the Legislative and Legal Service nor the Government has warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home body, the proposal of the law would be inconsistent. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 24th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Proposal for a decree amending the Decree establishing the University of Primorsk. As no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body in the decision motion, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. We are moving on to a decision on the motion for a decision. We're voting. There are 71 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 20th item of the agenda, which is the Re-Decision on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Medicinal Products. We are moving on to a decision on that law. In doing so, I would like to point out that, in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 91 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, in order to adopt that law, the majority of the members of the assembly must vote, i.e. 46 or more. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 26th paragraph of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the amount of the appropriations belonging to the individual political party from the State budget in 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, with 8 votes against 13. [[The vote was 8.]] [[Against 13.]] I note that the proposal for a decision is not adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 29th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Opinion of the Republic of Slovenia on the Treaty of Accession of the Republic of Croatia to the European Union. As no amendment was adopted by the committee responsible for the proposal, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a position. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 62 votes against 2. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 21. Agenda item, this is on a defensive proposal for a bill on the ratification of the Protocol on amendments to the Agreement of 3 April 2009 on the implementation of the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination against Women and Other Cruel, Inhuman or Degrading Treatment or Punishment, as amended by the Convention In May 2006 between the Republic of Slovenia and the Federal Republic of Germany on the avoidance of double taxation in connection with income and property taxes. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 22. At the end of the day, this is on the defence proposal for a law on the ratification of an agreement between the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Slovenia and the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Azerbaijan on defence cooperation. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 66 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 23. At the end of the day, this is a proposal for a law on the ratification of the Agreement between the Member States of the European Union which have met within the framework of the world, on the protection of classified information which has been exchanged in the interest of the European Union. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That's why we can move on to a decision on the law. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed law has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 23rd A-point of the agenda, which is to defend the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of Romania on the mutual protection of classified data. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we can move to a vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to 23B of the day-to-day agenda, that is to say the bill on ratification of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the transfer of persons whose residence is illegal, and the Protocol between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the implementation of the agreement between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the Republic of Kosovo on the release of persons whose residence is illegal. The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body in the context of the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting. That is why we can move to a vote on the proposal. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 23rd C-point of the agenda, which is the defence bill on the ratification of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government of the United States of America on the Fulbright Exchange Programme The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 64 votes against none. [[64 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 23rd C.E. of the agenda, that is to say the proposal for a law on the ratification of the agreement on air traffic between Canada and the European Community and its member states The draft law was tabled by the Government. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which gave written reports to the assembly, as the working body of the mother. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, no amendments could be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. That is why we can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 23D point of the agenda, which is a proposal for an act on the amendment of the act on the notification of the succession to the conventions of the United Nations and the conventions adopted by the International Atomic Energy Agency. The draft act was tabled by the Government. The proposal for an act was addressed by the Committee on Foreign Policy, which reported in writing to the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. As no amendment was adopted by the parent working body during the second reading, the amendments at the meeting of the assembly could not be tabled. That is why we can go to the vote. We're voting. There are 67 Members and Members present, 66 votes against none. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 30. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Under item a, we are moving to the consideration of the Proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency with proposals for conclusions. The proposal was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. Mr. Jože Tanko, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u209	Thank you very much. I propose that we vote on this item on the agenda at one of the next meetings of the National Assembly. [[advertising from the hall]] This probably wasn't in the program, this laugh. In accordance with Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, which provides that such a proposal may, read, be made by the head of the parliamentary group, the government or anyone else, to this meeting of the National Assembly, which is the last regular meeting of this mandate, put together a series of business and also politically incorrect agenda items. And this vote on the STA Supervisory Council is part of this business and also political misconduct. In fact, the STA Supervisory Board proposed to the Government two days after it had not been voted in confidence. And it is likely that a government that does not have full powers cannot carry out key human resources appointments that go beyond the next mandate. This is political misconduct, so I propose that the decision on this item be moved to one of the following meetings. I think it should be in the National Assembly in such cases, when we point out this politically unhygiene, that the current majority in the National Assembly also supports such a proposal for a vote. By the way, even in one of the previous votes – we voted on a decision on the sale of state property – it was such a political and also substantive, commercially incorrect conduct when a government that does not have a mandate proposes to sell a stake in a state society of about EUR 50 million. I think that all those who decide in this National Assembly on this should abstain in the last meeting from any such conduct that does not fall within this context. And there is no need for these votes to rush us through these decisions. In about two months, we will have a new government that will be able to propose to the Supervisory Board and other important decisions for this country, and it will have a full mandate. But now we are in a situation where the government does not have a mandate, we are in a situation where a state assembly will be disbanded in one day, and we are making decisions that will hold for four or five years. It is probably clear to all of us that this is not the right decision. We therefore propose that this procedural proposal also be voted on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u210	Thank you very much. You refer to Rule 74 of the Rules of Procedure, by which the Group of Members may propose the postponement of the debate or decision. Please just tell us whether we are having a debate today and it is only a proposal to postpone the decision so that there is no misunderstanding. [[advertising from the hall]] Debate and decision-making. I must put such a proposal to the vote, and before that, they have the right to their views and to explain to the vote of the Group of Members. Who wants a word? I suggest that all those who wish to explain the position of the Group of Members apply. Mr Borut Saiovic, on behalf of the LDS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u211	Thank you very much, Chairman, for your word. Look, Members and Members of Parliament have been given a mandate for a certain period. The period of our work is still going on, and it must be completed, honorably and honestly. In accordance with personal conviction and in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we do not see any need for something that we were told to make a decision, a responsibility, to place on the shoulders of someone else in another period. Those who come after us or are before us have the same rights and duties.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u212	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian People's Party's Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u213	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party support the proposal to hold this debate and decision once at the next meeting, which means for sure in the next term. At each beginning of the mandate, there is always a debate on what the previous coalition has set up, what appointments it has made in the last days of its mandate and so on. I have already discussed at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission that it is neither wise nor proper, nor hygienic, that the various appointments, which are certainly not most necessary, are to be held at the last meeting of the National Assembly. That is why the Group of Members will act as I said. We support the proposal to deal with this point in the next term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u214	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Ambassadors will really be explained by Dr. Gantar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u215	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Of course, we will not support this proposal. First of all, I would like to mention that the reference made by the Head of the SDS Group, Mr Tank, to the fact that this has been proposed by the Government, which has already resigned, is not valid and is not legitimate. The fact is that in this mandate, at the beginning of this mandate, we have dealt with the situation where the Government has not only resigned, but has already proposed a law that it has actually adopted and dealt with the new composition, which is the current composition of the National Assembly. From this point of view, of course, there are no procedural, political or political issues in terms of the political legitimacy of such a decision. I also believe that the expected dissolution of the National Assembly and the transition to early elections is a rather normal story in normal democracy, and that this should not make it an emergency and stop its political action, either at the government level under the laws or at the level of the National Assembly. From this point of view, I do not think there is any reason for us to transfer decisions in any way to the next assembly of the National Assembly. More than that, I also believe that the appointment of this world cannot be, in particular, a political act of the National Assembly, but it is a matter of appointing competent people to these places and it is already such a proposal that it is a day, assuming that it is necessary to recruit politically. Of course, we strongly oppose this in the Group of Members. We will oppose the procedural proposal for the debate and vote to be transferred to one of the next meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u216	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be explained by Mr Dusan Kumer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u217	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. There is no chance in the Group of Social Democrats, but we will not support this proposal, because it is a legitimate business proposal, which, of course, has a distinctive political approach. It is difficult to talk about political hygiene by those who for the past three years have been doing this political hygiene in this National Assembly. The proposal we have on the table today is perfectly legitimate. On 12 July, we adopted the STA Act, which, in the transitional provisions, required the Government to propose within three months the composition of a new Council of the Agency, which had not previously been different, and on 12 August was a public call. If we did so immediately after July 12th, we would say that the invitation to tender or the call was made between holidays and it would not be right again. This public call ended on 12 September, and 20, according to the choice that it was, of course, the government could not have come earlier with its proposal to the National Assembly. So this is a perfectly legitimate proposal that took into account all the elements and also the legal material adopted on 12 July in this National Assembly. Once again, we will not support this postponement proposal because it is a political proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u218	The position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group will be explained by Mr Jože Tanko, also as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u219	Thank you very much. We will support the proposal we have made. It is difficult to tell anyone among us any political conduct or political recruitment, for the Government or the coalition majority has passed a law stipulating that the Government in the STA Supervisory Council proposes five candidates, five members, and has written a policy into the law itself. However, we propose not to take that decision during this period, because the Government as a proposalant no longer has a mandate. Yes, it is true. On September 20th, the government expired its mandate because it had not been voted by a confidential authority. On 22 September, two days after the vote of the non-trustee, the Government decided on the human resources decisions, and on 22 September decided to propose a list of candidates for the STA Supervisory Board. We cannot avoid the fact that it is the politicians who want to use the current parliamentary majority to recruit their people wherever possible and who are still open. In two months' time, there will be a different majority in this National Assembly, and we will leave that to the majority, the government that will then make a proposal in accordance with the STA Act that you have adopted. In any event, this proposal is after the expiry of the three-month period laid down by law for the appointment of the members of the STA Supervisory Board. And apparently it's just that the current resources you have are being used up to the maximum. This is not the last staff proposal from this quota; tomorrow we will consider new proposals for human resources solutions at a future meeting and with some additional extensions of agendas, and it is obviously a different paradigm than you set at the beginning of the mandate. Here you are now wondering who is whose, and you are only deciding on the proposals you are proposing, but no one has been asked in this part. Obviously, it doesn't matter whose it is. It's important that it's yours. And what Mr Gantar said about proposing a law in the previous term - it was a law that secured the deposits of citizens in banks with guarantees. That law was agreed and tabled with the current new mandate-holder and was also adopted by consensus in the National Assembly more or less. It was no precedent, but it was an agreement between the outgoing and incoming prime minister of that government. We will support this proposal because we find it shameful to do so at the last meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u220	Thank you very much. The proposal was put forward by the parliamentary groups. Has she really explained it yet? There is no debate and no explanation of vote on procedural proposals. We turn to the vote on the proposal by Mr Tank, the SDS Group, to postpone the discussion and decision on the staffing proposal for the appointment of the members of the STA Supervisory Board to one of the following meetings. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, with 27 votes against 40. [[The vote was 27.]] [[Against 40.]] I note that the proposal to postpone the hearing and the conclusion on this point has not been adopted and, therefore, continue to be examined. The mandate-holder committee, as the parent working body, informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for conclusions. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members, as reported, after five minutes. The first is Mr Jože Tanko on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I think the National Assembly would deserve a government representative to at least explain this personnel proposal. That's the minimum we'd expect from someone who's so quick with these proposals. In fact, this coalition now that the mandate has practically expired [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u222	Mr. Jože Tanko, just one moment. Colleagues and colleagues, the meeting of the National Assembly is still going on and please allow us to continue. Thank you. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u223	Thank you, too. So this coalition now that it's leaving, it's got the most work to do. It has never happened that in such a short period of time as it was after September 20th, there are so many proposals on the table for government laws following an emergency procedure or a reduced procedure, during a period when the Government no longer has a full mandate, but only carries out ongoing transactions. Similarly, in the field of human resources. Also here, the government is incredibly hasty in sending proposals to the National Assembly that were actually formed only after the government was not elected as a confidant. After 20 September, we will vote on some proposals, and one of them is the proposal on the Slovenian Press Agency's Supervisory Board. This is not a marginal issue, the Slovenian Press Agency is not a marginal institution. The Slovenian Press Agency is a national operator in the field of information, and it is obvious that the Government, in its succinct composition, with the silent support of the former members of the coalition, is trying to cement not only a director's seat at the STA, but also the supervisory board of the State, which will be in the long term, this is the whole future mandate, to guide and shape the policy in this area. I think it's totally inappropriate for an act to be improper. Above all, it will be in the eyes of this incredible hiccup that the coalition is trying to cover in these last moments of life all of these institutions that have remained open. Here I can also draw attention to the fact that the appointment process of the STA Supervisory Board also opposes one of the representative associations, that is, the Association of Journalists and Publishers, who was particularly struck by the fact that one of the proposed candidates during the period when the RTV Programme Council candidate was a candidate, then went to the RTV Supervisory Board, in fact threatened journalists because he said that the gang should be dispersed on TV Slovenia. The candidate who declared this is Mr Nikola Damjanić. We therefore find it unacceptable that such candidates who have given themselves a specific task in the field of media management in the field of media guidance, who have even publicly voiced the threat of this happening, are also appointed to the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency, which is supposed to be an independent state institution and where all information makers are supposed to be providers of information in an equal position. It is more than obvious here that this institution is also politically controlled. In the past, we have had cases where someone who wanted to work independently at the Slovenian Press Agency dropped out, put him on the road and suffered a great personal tragedy and trauma. And it is probably not appropriate for such a policy to continue in these areas, especially since these publicly-known statements are in some cases accessible to all. It is clear that this firm deadline, which appointed someone to one of the RTV authorities, will also continue at the Slovenian Press Agency. I don't think Slovenia deserves this. Nor does the future authority deserve to be installed in the STA’s supervisory board. Whatever future coalition whatever future government will be, this government will be the one that will have to have a mandate in accordance with the law that you have adopted to appoint to these institutions the person who will choose to carry out this task. What you're doing right now is, in fact, perfect political conduct, it's non-creditable, it's also incorrect, and we think we should stop doing that. We will vote against all the members you have proposed, which your government has proposed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u224	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Embassy Club, he wants the word mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u225	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the proposed candidates, who have also received support from the Mandate-Election Commission. There are times in politics when you have to stop being so sneaky and say bob. We already had one vote today when a number of Members and Members, up to one important decision on the financing of political parties, did not hope or could be defined. It must be said that for legal, fair political campaigns in Slovenia we need funds and money to force customers into a number of referendums that they did not want. Some others wanted them, but of course today they did not want to decide on the financing. If the financing of customers is not properly regulated in a democratic society, then there are other ways that we do not defend in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. When we vote on these candidates, we have first heard that someone is suitable, and then, in the end, what is inappropriate is that everyone – in this country, people who are willing to run for responsible, serious functions cannot behave in this way. The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, as well as colleagues and colleagues in Parliament, has been given a mandate for a certain period from beginning to end, and in this mandate all the tasks entrusted to us must be performed with honour and honesty, and the vote must be in accordance with our conviction, conscience and free will. This right has been exercised by colleagues in the previous term, and it has also been used, and we could say that it is possible, in our view, to abuse it, but today it is our job to identify and take responsibility for the candidates. As far as the operation of the Slovenian Press Agency is concerned, I must say that in the last period it has worked well, impartially, there has been no evidence of its work, either on the one hand or on the other. In this National Assembly, we have approved the Slovenian Press Agency Act in this Chamber. Our task and duty, not good will, but the task and duty, is to form a supervisory council and decide on it by voting. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we will, we know, want and be able to accept this responsibility and we will accept it. The candidates, who are good and who have already received support from the Mandate-Election Commission, will be re-sponsored in the vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u226	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. However, because after the schedule of work, I am putting an end to the holding of the meeting, which will continue to be chaired by President Ljubo Germič, at this conclusion, because I believe that this is also my last regular meeting in this mandate – I hope that there will be no too many – I thank you for your cooperation, that you believe that I have tried to respect the rules of procedure. You yourself will appreciate how much you respected him, how much we helped each other to make the work of the National Assembly run smoothly. I hope that the National Assembly must have been at least a bottleneck in dealing with certain issues. Personally, I wish everyone success in the elections, but above all, I also want a fair election, and to all who will be elected to the National Assembly in the next term, especially good cooperation, fair relations, care for common good, less unkind words to each other, more arguments, because I think Slovenia will benefit from this. Thank you very much. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mrs Majda Shirca Ravnikar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u227	Thank you. I want the same good feeling in more peaceful places, when those of you who are undoubtedly respected, Mr Potrč, have handled things very properly and have sometimes made it very easy for us to do so. This is varied and also rude in the light of the proposal that we have heard today that we should not conclude any procedure that was put in place with the Slovenian Press Agency Act when it was adopted. This is necessary, or the Slovenian Press Agency will not work because it will not be able to produce financial plans or work programmes approved by the Supervisory Board. By the way, the Slovenian Press Agency, as regulated by the law that was passed, has a finally independent and orderly form of action, completely different from when people who we know were in complete conflict with politics appeared at its summit. In the end, the Commission of Inquiry also confirmed the way the policy worked in the field of human resources, with the Slovenian Press Agency. And that's not good. And this law, which lays down the rules of an independent game, makes it impossible. In short, I also strongly oppose or have you in the past proved that the deadline at the end of a given term could have been exploited until disability. This happened, let's say, with an agreement on the island of Bley, when the elections were over. Once a completely different map of Slovenia was drawn up, the so-called current government brought to the table an agreement that had violated and overlooked everything the Constitutional Court had previously read out, which all the courts had discussed about whose island the Blejska island could be. But anyway, we're talking about a proposal for names that match what the law requires. I believe you will support them. Otherwise, I believe there will also be an immediate supplement to the list of people to fire a shooting that is now 280. I don't know how fast the counter runs and how fast the counter runs, but no doubt there's a huge number of people who find themselves there completely for no fault at all. Say, is Mr. Ferry Lainschek guilty because he's a writer, and you put him on the list because he's a member of the book agency? I believe that today's situation will be set in order to bring about a state of order in the Slovenian Press Agency, which now has clear rules of the game, but has not yet. We also know that the ownership of the management relationship has been completely disrupted so far. In this respect, the Group of Members and Members of Parliament will absolutely support all proposed candidates. They have those references required by law, and they have also proved by their work that they are part of the work that they are professionally covering.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u228	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u229	Thank you very much. A man can't believe when he listens to Mrs Shirce's betrayal and the untruths, the deception to which I'm sure he doesn't believe. The list you were talking about is just a list of USB keys, you, a coalition that almost fell apart. The next deceiving of Mrs Shirce was when she said that we would have the final independent operation of the STA, the Slovenian Press Agency. Let me read to you how they comment in the Association of Journalists and Publishers: "One of the members of this Supervisory Board, Damjanić, was appointed as a member of the RTV Slovenia Programme Council on a proposal from the LDS, and then as a member of the RTV Slovenia Supervisory Board. Upon his resignation as a member of the Supervisory Board in July 2009, he stated before the press conference that a gang should be deployed to RTV Slovenia. At the same press conference, he also presented himself as a personal friend of President Res Gregor Golobič." I think every comment is superfluous. So much for an independent institution that will appoint the directors of the STA to supervise and so on. Otherwise, see, it would be expected that, before the expiry of the term of office, before the very functioning of the National Assembly, the Government would prepare those really urgent laws that would solve the difficult economic situation, the social situation and what might be linked to international action. But what are we witnessing this month and a half? The multitude of laws, the multitude of personnel replacements, the solutions, everything is carried out by emergency procedure, as if this is the main problem of Slovenia. But it is true that this is the main problem of the coalition that is leaving and that, hopefully more, it will not have the majority it had in this part. Mr Saiovic earlier commented that it was right for the work to be concluded with honor and responsibility. Mr Saiovic, because of the irresponsible part of the entire coalition, you will end this mandate dishonorably. And also this human resources exchange that is currently under way is not necessary. So to speak now about the urgent need, because the law requires that a government that no longer has full powers be able to decide on new human resources solutions — that is not true. There is no need, no reason for this procedure to be carried out by a new government, with a new mandate, and there would be no doubt about whether the leadership has been elected legitimately or not. But now, before the elections, because you all know that one of the key weapons for implementing a misleading electoral campaign is media control. STA, Slovenian Press Agency, is one of the most important and probably also the most influential media institutions, and this is how you want to subordinate. But it's not just this institution where you're completely subordinated, but there's something very symptomatic here. We can also read that the leadership of RTV Slovenia is looking for a marriage hole for Mr Jankovic. Otherwise, through the law on RTV, which was very convincingly rejected by the people at the referendum, this has failed, but you are looking for ways in which you will be able to promote someone who is your main favorite in the time until the elections with some tricks and deceptions, this is Mr Jankovic. So to speak of the fact that this staff composition proposed by the Government to the National Assembly is professional, competent, independent, unresistible. This is misleading, and this deception also confirms the opinion of many journalists who have responded to this proposal and also calls on the National Assembly not to accept this proposal. It's up to you to decide that, but it won't be an honor for any of you to confirm such a team. The time will come when it will turn out to be more than a wrong decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u230	Mr Saiovic, you have raised your hand for, but you do not have the time declared in the debate. The word has magic. Melita Zupevec.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u231	Thank you very much, Mr. President. But you have to think, Nikola Damjanić and Gregor Golobich are friends. This is amazing, but do you know what's worse – that Nikola Damjanić and I are colleagues. That's terrible! And that is why this man is really not fit to be a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. That's an argument for history. You have to think of something like that! Terrible, isn't it? These things that Mr Grill has just been doing -- we've just been talking to our colleagues -- a man wouldn't know what point we're discussing because he has the same masquerade and the same sentences everywhere. But all right, we're not talking about Mr. Grill. I also did not see that Mr Jankovic was among the candidates for the supervisory board, but perhaps I missed something. As for the independence of the Slovenian Press Agency, it is indeed what has been said – it is high time for the Slovenian Press Agency to receive the Supervisory Board. The extent to which STA is dependent or independent of politics could be discussed here for long and wide. This was illustrated by another mandate of another government when they recruited directly from the cabinet of the Prime Minister when editors received instructions, for whom, in particular, they had to write and so on. Also, specific journalists have been instructed to write for a specific freeman, but on another occasion, I think it has already been said enough on this topic. No one claimed that this matter was absolutely necessary. The National Assembly will carry out the procedures initiated by the Government properly to the end. I think that's right, and these tricks that we're witnessing at the appointment of the STA Supervisory Board are just amazing. This resistance to vote before the elections is unbelievable. We had, I hope, a marathon session and a marathon debate with cartridges, 45-minute pauses by the Slovenian Democratic Party, in order to avoid voting on these candidates for the STA Supervisory Board. I hope that we will finally vote on this supervisory council today because it is right for the Slovenian Press Agency to get it, because this fulfils the legal obligations or provisions of the law which this supervisory board also provides for. So, very briefly: I will, of course, confirm the candidates as a whole and individually. Yeah, and that. Perhaps, however, one of these candidates, who is a friend of Gregor Golobic, is also disputed because he brought an action against the president of one party because he had maligned his reputation and a good name. But maybe that's the reason, but that reason isn't convincing enough for me. I will support all candidates for the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u232	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u233	Good afternoon, colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party, I am Franco Juri and I am accidentally a friend of Nikola Damjanić. I won't hide it. But does that even matter? It is for you because you do not understand society differently than the functioning of networks, or friendly or family, because you yourself come from such a function. And for you too, any vote on the Supervisory Board, in this case the Slovenian Press Agency, is also an urgent political vote because you do not understand a different vote. You have always, always, when you were in power, especially when you voted and chose politically, and you cannot understand that someone else can vote, choose and appoint someone also on the basis of professional evaluations. But at the very least, I'm convinced of your concern for political hygiene. Today you have proved, by the previous vote, that you know absolutely nothing about political hygiene, that you do not have moral and ethical legitimacy to talk about political hygiene after abstaining from voting on a decision to reduce funds for political parties. You yourself have declared this to be something necessary, while the coalition and other parties have sincerely said that they oppose it, and you have given a populism announcement of a big change and a vote for such a decision, but today you have almost fully abstained, almost because Mr Chernač voted against it. And that's your political hygiene! It's a political disgrace. Today you have shown and opened up to the Slovenian public your own hypocrisy, and this hypocrisy is also repeated when the speech on the appointment of the STA Supervisory Board. You know we're hand-hunting, you know we need to name a supervisory board, because if we don't, we'll take responsibility for the Agency's financial failure and we'll break the law. You're well aware of that, and you don't care. You just want to stop Nikola Damjanić. Why? Probably because of an earlier problem. And since Nikola Damjanić is today, tomorrow will be Gregor Virant and probably someone else who doesn't suit you will have to stop him at all costs. But here we are talking about the normal operation of the main press agency. We are talking about a control world where there will be not only Nikola Damjanić, but quite a few different members. You're worried — we know that if you get the power, you'll fix it right away, not like Borut Pahor, who didn't know it. You know that, and you're going to do personnel cleaning and personnel tsunamis right now, because you know that when someone takes power, that's the first step. We didn't know that. We took power and believed in the good purposes of the opposition and also those structures that controlled television that controlled the prosecution, which controlled a lot of things. So we have not dealt with these images, and today we have what we have. You will take over Slovenia, where at least half the staff is still yours, and the other half will be filled in anyway. Of course, we will support this appointment of the Supervisory Board because we believe that we are responsible for the smooth functioning of the STA and also for the consequences that would have arisen if we did not do so today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u234	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u235	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. While some thus stress the importance of the STA, it is important to note, however, that some other actions make it difficult for the STA to function. Just as an example: when we discussed the budget's balance, one of our fellow Members suggested that the Government's communication office should be deprived of funds. Interestingly, just as much money as is needed for the smooth operation of the STA, it is called the salaries of employees at the STA. Great solidarity and great reasonableness of this decision if we think about it. With regard to the indications of the time in which proposals for the appointment of members of the Supervisory Board are coming, Article 24 of the STA Act imposes a 90-day period within which members of the Supervisory Board must be appointed after the adoption of the law. On 15 June, the law was passed, and anyone who can calculate 90 days can also determine when the deadline has expired. So we're sooner late than we're ahead of appointment of members of the Supervisory Board. Now to the members of the Supervisory Board. It is very interesting that when considering this law, the SDS proposed an amendment to remove the necessary professional competences for the four members of the Supervisory Board proposed by the Government to elect the National Assembly. Very interesting, these are the competences that say that media experts, economic and financial experts, a lawyer and some other IT experts must be. They wanted this not to be written, but now it seems that the only criterion for assessing eligibility for a member of the Supervisory Board is his private life and private relationship, not his professional competence. Other competences are also required, as are other members of the Supervisory Boards when it comes to companies. So the proposed candidates meet the required conditions, and now all of a sudden we hear that we should not discuss them or decide on them. As regards some other facts, it was proposed in the original version of the law that a two-thirds majority of the members present should be required to elect each individual member of the Supervisory Board. That is exactly what the SDS objected to, and now the law is as it is that there must be an absolute majority. So those who talk about politics and political decision-making should remember what the argument was when you challenged the two-thirds majority and thought that it would never be possible to reach an election because it would not be possible to agree on who would be a member of the Supervisory Board. Of course, it would also be possible to challenge what was slightly indicated, but not as decisively and clearly stated as it was at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, what problems, or what major sins, should be attributed to the current Director of the State. I think that many things can be discussed, but that the piette does not allow us to mention some things that make comments in a completely different context. Take a very close look at Article 12 and you will see that it is very clearly defined who cannot be a member of the Supervisory Board, and then you may wonder whether in the previous term the Director of STA could be a person appointed directly from the Cabinet of the President of the current Government. I will support the proposed members, but this will still be possible after the vote has been printed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u236	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u237	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Nice hello to you all! When we talk about the Slovenian Press Agency or the S.A.A., and who are the first in line, it should be noted that before this vote and before and even before the previous vote, the policy decides on these names. Whether these specific people with a name and surname are also political members of any political party, it is more or less clear, because they are not people who would take the stage yesterday, today or tomorrow. It seems to me that something far more important than which political options belong — how and how they come to the scene. I am sure that it would be much better to have these matters regulated by those who will be given the next mandate, on the one hand, by the government on the other hand. Both coalition and opposition would be avoided so that someone could tell us that we were doing the wrong thing. It is true that the process has been in progress for some time and has been in preparation, but it is true that it has been said for some time now that this government coalition is likely to expire prematurely, which has actually happened. And I am sure that we would not assume moral or other responsibilities by peacefully deciding that these things should be decided by those who come after us, including those who will also be in key positions in the next term. Allow me to highlight some of the views of this agency, which would or which should be politically distant, but this is difficult, because it is policy that decides on these content and cannot be avoided. What would be comparable to much more mature democracies, such as Slovenia, in the field of the specific part of this agency, could be seen to be significantly different in those more mature democracies with a longer tradition compared to our democracy. And believe me, in such a democracy, the painting is right and the other way around. Because if we know what is produced through this agency, then more or at least more of these content is balanced, so that there is a policy that is represented on the political scene. I'm afraid we can't pin this on us. Always information and everything that happens in this agency is somehow concentrating in the direction of the one who rules. That's not right. It would be right that the composition of the members should be diverse, both from the perspectives of the content it accepts and from the fact that such members should not be politically compromised in the past, not in the present and not in the future. That is why I cannot support such a proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u238	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u239	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Already on the Commission's mandate, the argument of this political appointment was very interesting. You had no arguments, and you resorted to condemning and pointing to the other side and to other people. Today, I am pleased that two Members from that side have acknowledged that this is through friendly lines. Of course, I must say that it is incredible when one of the Members of Parliament, Mr Yuri, who recognises the recruitment on a friendly basis, talks about the hypocrisy and points to the other. Mr Juri, it is a hypocrisy that an MP from a party that is still somehow linked to the financial barons and financial greed goes to a demonstration when young people are demonstrated, not just young people, against this, and after reporting to the media, you are provoked by this. However, the disgusting hypocrisy is that if the financial greed exhibit and the symbol of financial greed goes to such demonstrations, Mr Jankovic, they were afraid of him and they didn't hope to revel in him, but that is a disgusting hypocrisy and perversion, I must say. Therefore, I must say that I am not surprised that Mr Juri has performed last time that during the current Director of STA there are radically different methods and conditions, and I agree and I am glad that he has said this, they are radically different. That's right. It's radical. Something like what happened in this term has not yet happened that a responsible editor was thrown in the road for no reason, and his work relationship was cancelled. Such a horrifying way of accounting has not yet occurred in this independent country. And, unfortunately, Mr Borut Meshko, the responsible editor, was sick of cancer and died because of this hardship, injustice, stress and existential distress. Stress triggers cancer all the time. Since one colleague talked about the pieta, it would be pathetic if when he got cancer, they admitted to his mistake, apologized to him, and might heal him, that would be pathetic. And you're saying it's not pathetic to talk about why you led someone literally to their death. See, now you're listing some things and you're not able to look at them at the threshold. The deletion of professional competences was necessary. Maybe this mistake was such an attempt, but that's exactly what our colleague Maja Shirca did at the time of the ministry in Opera and Ballet. She lowered the criteria for a dedicated candidate, who is now the director, to a higher school. I just heard yesterday that he already managed to make over a million, I think, debts — maybe you can explain where that money went from Opera — and now even this world of institutions is thinking of replacing it because he did terrible things. But there you actually lowered the criteria so that you could set a dedicated man. You know exactly how the case went. I think that Mr Damjanić, and I have nothing against him, even under tender conditions, could not run for conflict of interest because he writes that he cannot be a member of the Supervisory Board of a person who is a member of the management, management or control body or who is in a working relationship or contractually cooperating with companies providing the same or similar services as the STA, which could result in a conflict of interest. The Ninamedia agency is a pear agency, running campaigns, and it can have a terrible impact on the STA, for which the STA will work more favourably. There's a conflict of interest. You don't even look at marriage grounds, you don't look at conflict of interest, but you insist stubbornly. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr Jerovšek. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u241	Thank you for your word. The current government has apparently decided that certain human resources decisions are part of the current business. After a few days and weeks, when they were still thinking about what the current business is, they obviously came up with this answer, and for us we can be sure that the relevant question is whether the current business actually includes staff decisions and whether the appointment of members of the Slovenian Press Agency Supervisory Board is also part of this category. Maybe something about names. Something has already been said. It is likely that colleagues of the former coalition would also agree or assume that they agree that Mr Nikola Damjanić's statement on employees on RTV was inappropriate, at least inappropriate, if not otherwise, and that there are completely irrelevant friendships between Mr Golobic or Mrs Župevc with him. The conflict of interest has also been mentioned. Mr Damjanić runs the Ninamedia Agency, which conducts public opinion surveys, so he is also quite involved in the interpretation of these studies, which he is carrying out and so on, and we can talk about the conflict of interest. Mr Jerovšek read the article in the law that speaks about it. And not just that, probably as a media person or a person who deals with public opinion research, has a special attitude and a special attitude towards journalists as well. If everything is treated as it is in a specific case when he stated that a gang on Television Slovenia should be dispersed, it is unlikely that he is the most suitable candidate for this function for which you are proposing it. Once again, the 20th government has been dissolved and has since been able to carry out ongoing business, that is, things that will not have as long-term consequences as the appointment of the Supervisory Board for the next period. That's why, of course, I can't support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u242	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Branko Grimes. [[He's not here.]] Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u243	Thank you so much for saying that. The media are the special love of this coalition. In this mandate, we have experienced a new law on Radiotelevision of Slovenia and it is not too much to recall how stories have been going on with regard to the treatment and adoption of this law, and what stories are also happening in the coalition against those who have expressed opposition to such an approach and the content of the law. Let us recall the case of Mr Magajna and perhaps another SD member. There has been talk of enormous pressure, and it has also been revealed why marriage is adopted. So some things have changed. We've been discussing the Law on Media. This system law, I can say, has also experienced some special procedure in this national assembly, and many positive words of the coalition have also been used in this law, but in the background there have been cases which had no connection with the expertise of the proposal, not with the purpose, discovered, of an honest purpose to regulate the area to which this law was intended. Something similar is probably happening with this novel of the Slovenian Press Agency Act. As we now face this completion of the Governing Council, the body that is supposed to watch over this independent agency — as you say — is an independent agency — we cannot escape the fact that it is being staffed along a friendly line. It is not irrelevant that someone appointed to the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency is a friend of the president of one of the former coalition parties, Gregor Golobič. It is not irrelevant that this law was prepared by the party really, party to Gregor Golobič. It does not matter that she talks about how good they are and how bad we are on the other hand, the minister who wrote and regulated the entire media area and the media landscape. This is probably not the case, as is probably not the case in the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency, with people who are columnists or friends of cartoonists, such as from Dnevnik's publishing house. There are also friends of Mr Gregor Golobič of Zares. It is clear to me that Mr Juri, who has been active in one of the Diary's divisions and has published his cartoons there, will support the proposal of a columnist from this media house, which is proposed in the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. And it's probably not entirely overstated that he's going to say that this is an independent proposal and an expert candidate. At the same time, the taiists also manage an agency that conducts public opinion research, and it is probably quite clear that it will operate in the STA supervisory board completely, completely independent. It comes from a commercial house, it deals with commercial activity, it deals with public opinion research and the like. I think that we have seen too much of these overtures and deceptions in this term. That is why some areas are regulated so that they cannot be proud of those who have proposed this law and even less of those who have prepared a human resources kit for the completion of certain institutions. The fact that the Slovenian Press Agency will receive the Supervisory Board does not mean anything in terms of independence or quality, absolutely nothing. The director has been appointed in one way or another, you know in your own way. There have been stories in such a way that they cannot be proud of any director who respects employees who respect editorial freedom, journalistic freedom, and also some candidates who come to this supervisory council that you will appoint come with a hammer in this supervisory council to regulate certain things in a different way, as they did in Radiotelevision Slovenia. I will not support these proposals.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u244	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Dusan Kumr.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u245	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. You can't believe what you hear about it, but it might be good if your colleagues who are discussing the STA a lot or back, about this human resources, had a little bit of memory training. At the end of the previous term, when the elections were already held on 21 September, the previous government appointed one of our colleagues, who sat here in this Chamber, to the supervisory council of a large state company. He was sitting there on your side, right here. A few days after the elections were already held. That's just so much, the kind of person you moralize and talk about how long it takes for a government to do something. You appointed your fellow Member a few days after the elections, when the map was drawn up, to the supervisory board of a major Slovenian state company. So it would be really good for you to sometimes dig up or train your memory and remember what you were doing when you gave others morals or any other lessons. And secondly, when you talk about love for the media. Look in your own kind who loves the media the most. The one who announced the swan song to Slovenian journalism many years ago, the one who mixed up in August 2005 and sold Mercator in order to have an impact on the media, the one who boasted in this hall many times, that even one medium wrote the law, wrote it himself and boasted about it. Who loves the media? And you're telling us that we have a lot of loud talk and kissing in the media. So once again, look really in your own mirror, but a mirror that is not visible on both sides, but has a coating on one side. To stay with STA. The least you can say is that it's political personnel. I'm going to make a political decision today because I don't know anything else in the National Assembly. When I press the button, I make a political decision. But I'm against any client recruitment. And look what you did in your previous term. You brought your boss in a cab to the U.S.A. The current director, who is not under this new law, has even been appointed by public tender. You didn't know how to start that in your previous term. Now that the new law is written and it has a supervisory board that has a supervisory function, you're making it difficult and challenging again. So once again and at least what it is: I know that a lot of people probably don't know the four that we have on the list today. But do you think it is really right to discredit people who also have some professional references? It's not just Mr Damjanić, it's the other three candidates you're discrediting in this way. And at least what it is, it's not nice of you and it's not right. So once again, of course, I will support these four candidates, because I want the STA to stop with client recruitment, not political recruitment, client recruitment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u246	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate and move on to the decision on the proposed decisions. In doing so, I inform you that, on the basis of the third paragraph of Article 13 of the Slovenian Press Agency Act, a decision will be adopted if the majority of all Members vote for it, i.e. 46 or more. On the basis of Article 13, paragraph 4, of this Act, each candidate shall be voted on separately. I am voting on the proposal for a decision appointing Dr Mark Hočevar as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. Mr. Golobič, would you like to explain your voice? On behalf of the Group of Members, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u247	Thank you so much for saying that. I'll support Dr. Hotchevar. It's probably a friendly gesture or whatever it's called. Although I do not know the gentleman, but I know something about him, I know that he is an expert in the field of economics, and I think he will contribute to what the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency is doing. There's been a lot of talk about this, we've heard a new word, this new man has made Mr Tanko. He said that the Slovenian Press Agency is a national information operator. It's some kind of diction that's unusual, it comes from other areas and it shows some interesting understanding of this institution. It shows an understanding that this is an agency that produces citizens' views on what is happening in this country. And that was true in the previous term. When this agency was led by the cabinet of the then Prime Minister, Mrs Paulin, with a troupe of co-workers and co-workers who were recently confirmed by the commission of inquiry in the final report by secret associates, if I use another such term, secret associates of the prominent SDS freemen. This was a national misinformation operator. When Minister Shirca brought the law to Parliament, it contained a two-thirds majority provision to elect members of the Supervisory Board. You have proposed a simple majority and individual vote because you were counting on being able to make the State of the national SDS disinformation operator again after the elections. Therefore, today, at this point, which is really very marginal, in view of what is before this policy in a decisive sense in the coming months, your exposure to this story is very unusual. And a word about famous friends. Judging by public opinion research, it is very unusual to attribute here any friendly background, the ones you have in mind. But there's a difference. Some of us are or may be friends regardless of how they deal with the facts and do not falsify the results. When Mr. Virant recently left your constituency, he became a backstabbing traitor from a friend. This is the relationship you are demonstrating and you are trying to draw into this discussion about the STA control council, which has nothing to do with this. By proposing that you focus on content to ensure that STA is truly a public service, and this Supervisory Board deserves support because it will ensure this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u248	Thank you very much. Can we vote? We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 21. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the proposal for a decision appointing Nikola Damjanić as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 21. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the proposal for a decision appointing Dr. Aleš Zivkovic as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 21. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the proposal for a decision appointing Dr Andraz Terška as a member of the Supervisory Board of the Slovenian Press Agency. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 21. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 21.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal of the Judicial Council for the appointment of a member of the Competition Protection Commission. By letter dated 22 September 2011, the Council of Justice proposed to the National Assembly that Dr. Jorg Sladič be appointed as a member of that commission. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Electorial Commission, which informed the assembly in writing. For the presentation of the views of the LDS Group, I give the word mag. Borut Saivitz. He's quitting. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to the vote on the proposal of the Judicial Council for the appointment of a member of the Competition Protection Commission. In accordance with Article 12, paragraph 4, of the Competition Prevention Act, the appointment of a member of the Competition Protection Commission shall be decided by secret ballot. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a secret vote shall be held by the committee composed of the Presidents and the four Members elected by the National Assembly on the proposal of the President. I have already received proposals from the parliamentary groups for the members of the committee leading the vote. These are Mr Anton Kolarič, Mr Robert Hrovat, Mr Franco Juri and Mr Guido Kres. I, too, am a member of this commission as chairman. Mr Matjaž Plevelj, Deputy Secretary-General, will be involved in the work of the Commission. Does anyone object to the proposal for a commission? If not, we are moving on to a decision on the composition of the commission. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 1. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it that the commission in the proposed composition has been elected. In accordance with the third paragraph of Article 92 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a vote will be delivered to Members and Members by each Member to the Chair's table and by their name and surname. It shall be voted on by surrounding the word "yes" or "no" on the ballot. In accordance with the fifth paragraph of Article 91 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the unfulfilled ballot shall be invalid. There is also an invalid voice from which the will of the Member or Member is not clearly visible. In accordance with Article 12, paragraph 4, of the Competition Prevention Act, the candidate will be elected if the majority of Members and Members present vote for him. We will vote in the Chamber in the voting booths. The Members and Members will place the completed vote in the ballot box, which will be at the table next to the voting booths. We are moving on to a secret ballot. I ask Members of Parliament to assist me in the vote to report immediately to room 217, where we will take over the electoral material. The vote will start at 17.05, i.e. in 8 minutes, and will last until 17.20, i.e. 15 minutes. After the vote, I ask Members who will assist me in the vote to meet in room 217. I interrupt this agenda item and the assembly meeting, which will be resumed at 5.30 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u249	Dear colleagues and respectable colleagues! We continue with the 30th item of the agenda, which is the handling of Mandate-Voluntary matters. We continue to consider the proposal of the Judicial Council for the appointment of a member of the Competition Protection Commission. Allow me to read the minutes on the conclusion of the outcome of the vote on the appointment of Dr Jorg Sladič as a member of the Competition Protection Commission. The vote was held at the premises of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on 19 October 2011. 70 ballots were distributed, 70 ballots were delivered. Two votes were invalid, 68 votes were valid. 49 Members and Members voted in favour, against 19. On the basis of the outcome of the vote, Dr Jorge Sladič was appointed as a member of the Competition Commission by the majority of the votes of the Members present. To Dr. George Sweets, I congratulate you on your appointment! We are moving on to the consideration of the proposals of the Council of Justice for election to a judicial function by means of proposals for decisions. The Council of Justice submitted proposals to the National Assembly on the election to the judicial function, namely to the Court of Justice: the Chief Justice at the Justice and Executive Department of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana, eight District Judges and one District Judge at the District Courts in Maribor, Ljubljana, Brežica and Kranj, and the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. The proposal was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as a mother working body, which reported in writing and submitted proposals for conclusions to the National Assembly. There are no applications for discussion, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposals for decisions. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Dr Mark Bruce to the judicial post of Senior Judge at the Judicial and Executive Section of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election of the Magi. Anje Drew to the courthouse of the District Court in Maribor. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present, 52 votes against none. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Antonia Matevžič to the District Court in the Regional Court of Maribor. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Katja Klug to the District Court of Justice in the Regional Court of Maribor. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I put to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Špela Kolet to the court seat of the District Court at the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 58 votes against none. [[58 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Tanja Tošič Benigar to the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election of the Magi. Staše Ane Kanduch Valant to the court seat of the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 57 votes against none. [[The vote was 57.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Ana Testen to the District Court in the District Court in Ljubljana. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am putting to the vote a motion for a decision on the election of Almir Kurspahić to the District Court of Justice in the District Court of Brežice. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 60 votes against none. [[The vote was 60.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I shall put to the vote a proposal for a decision on the election of the Magi. Living Zapletnik to the district court in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 64 Members and Members present, 59 votes against none. [[59 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I am voting on the motion for a decision on the election of Zofka Vrhunc to the District Court of Justice in the District Court in Kranj. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the Resolution and Appointment of a Deputy Member of the National Election Commission. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. No applications have been made, so I am concluding the presentation of positions. There will be a debate between Members and Members. Mr. Roberto Battelli has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It seems to me that this raises the issue of principled or even constitutional nature. In fact, the Law on Elections to the National Assembly follows that three members and deputies of the National Election Commission shall be appointed in accordance with the proposals of the parliamentary groups, taking into account the relative representation of political parties. The proposal of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the People's Republic of Hungary was rejected before the vote took place at all. It is not the first time that this is happening, and I do not think that this is appropriate, because Article 82 of the Constitution, I understand it that way, and I was there when it was adopted, in fact, saying that all Members are equal. We are all accountable to the people, we all have the same rights and obligations, probably including the election of people to certain places, as provided for by the law. This does not mean, of course, that these proposals would not take account of the relationship between political parties in Parliament, but that I do not think this solution is consistent. Because if, for example, the leaders of parties outside Parliament who propose their candidates, and then Parliament confirms it or not, it is one question, and that would be the case. But if the bodies that make up Parliament, i.e. the parliamentary groups, propose, then all the parliamentary groups must have this option, regardless of the outcome of the vote. Finally, our arrangement also foresees the possibility of an independent list or independent candidate – otherwise this is a theoretical option, as we know, but it could happen that they are elected to Parliament. In this case, too, you would be in an unequal position vis-à-vis the Members elected on the lists of parties. But we are all the same, no matter how we are elected, of course in accordance with the law. Once we're elected, we're all the same. In this I see a dangerous precedent in the light of the experience we have by trying to limit the mandates of Members of the national communities who are constitutional and who are clearly discriminated against in these candidate procedures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u251	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that will relieve Dusan Vukko of the duties of a member of the State Election Commission and Dr. Roman Lavtar of the State Election Commission. We're voting. There are 65 Members and Members present, 44 votes against 20. [[The vote was 44.]] [[Against 20.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a decree amending the Decision on internal organisation, working places and titles in the services of the National Assembly. The proposal for a decree was tabled by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u252	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear colleagues, we're all tired, so I apologize, but we'll take a few more minutes. There's something I have to say in this decision. Do you remember everyone, or those who are just one term, or those who are three, four or more, their names when delegations visit, the invitations that come, the maps we get, the hundreds of thousands of copies of the papers we get. Even if the meeting is suspended, we go to meetings of working bodies, we accept the amendment, it reproduces, and in a few minutes this national assembly is provided. In 11 years I have experienced only well by a department called the printing department, in all respects, in the field of printing and in the field of anything else, copying, assistance. Whatever we asked for, we got it. Secondly, do you find it right and fair that now, just before labor, there is a need for a more modern and rational implementation of printing and reproduction services to reduce costs and optimize processes and maintain jobs, which is, of course, under question? Now, for the last 20 days, if we take from the responsible three years of time – it's not fair. That amendment is intended to be proposed in order to reduce operating costs in the field of printing and reproduction. It's illogical, it's illogical! No internal plant in any industry in any space can be more expensive than anyone outside. It can't be! That the provision of classical printing services on old offset machines is no longer economically justified, it is likely to have been calculated a year, two, three or four years ago and could gradually be updated. Furthermore, according to the prices offered for the tendered external printing services, substantial economic savings have been achieved, notably in the procurement of paper and paperboard and graphic material, as large graphic companies acquire them under more favourable conditions, which confirms that external printing services are significantly more cost-effective and therefore justified. This is as much as Indonesian coal was cheaper than Velenje lignite and trebwell and oak coal, but it was cut off in TE-TOL, and a month ago we heard that it was more expensive. Don't talk to me! Once again, someone from the outside will come in and get the job; now he will go for a dumping price, in six months he will have the prices winded up. That's rude, that's ugly. No indoor plant can have a more expensive price, and for such quantities as they are printed, you carry such piles of materials yourself. You can't tell me that someone in this house can't reach the lowest possible price so that one Frenchman can get there from outside, which is a friend of Loizet, and Lois from Micke can get lower. I think you all know that and I'm right. The greatest absurdity, however, is when they say in the decree that the reorganisation is optimal and necessary from an organisational point of view and from an economic point of view. Let me tell you from the information I have, because I'm not going to say anything on my mind and the modern introduction of UDIS. [[...]] According to the data I have, it is the UDIS introduction system, and the paper consumption at the level of the entire National Assembly – this is for users ordering paper through the printery – has increased by 100%. What kind of savings, and what kind of economy is this? Instead of achieving a reduction in prices there, it is all of a sudden more cost-effective when we introduced UDIS. And now the UDIS will save this national council and this world will be cheaper. And we already have UDIS and it's 100% more expensive. What's true now? Colleagues and colleagues, the greatest absurdity, this is the highest: if the inadequate existing situation is maintained, the printing industry will no longer be able to provide jobs for all public servants of the department. So if the printery stays and works, the employees will go home. That's genius! Unlike everything logical and intelligent. I'll call back later. You know, these people today are just as confused, scared or worried as we all are, whether we admit it or not. We're all worried about what's gonna happen in two months. One knows, the other doesn't know. Let's also have this human factor. The organization, ladies and gentlemen, is not working in one month. That's it. Please be so solidarity and vote against this decision.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u253	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, he will present the position of mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u254	Thank you very much, President, for your word. It is bad if a person hears, as well as in the position of the Group of Members, only one side of the Medal. However, we have heard a broad, broader view of this story, the essence of which is that in one year the National Assembly, with a different organisation of work, can save substantially more than 100,000 euros, while all those currently employed in the printery can maintain their jobs. It was also said that the printing press of the National Assembly is more than two decades old, that it no longer meets modern technological standards, that there is also a risk of health protection at work at certain times, and that, of course, investment in a new modern, modern printing press requires a major investment that the National Assembly cannot budget. It is easy for someone who knows printing techniques to know how fast technology is progressing in this area. The National Assembly has not updated and therefore I think, and in our Group of Members, we are thinking that if something can be saved in the public sector in order to save this, especially since all employees will retain their jobs, this is a privilege that will be reserved in the future in public administration, in construction and elsewhere, unfortunately not all will have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u255	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Jože Tanko will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u256	Thank you so much for saying that. This organizational change within the National Assembly, also at one of the last items of the agenda for today's meeting, is one of those that is part of some strange moves that the Secretary-General of the National Assembly has taken. Such a reorganisation and other organisational changes in the National Assembly could be made in the coming term of office in two months. Things would be settled, taken care of normally, so now you're practically all under some cover of speed and urgency trying to sort things out at this last moment. This reorganisation raises in particular the question of how materials with a code of confidentiality will be dealt with, whether this printing plant will deliver these documents in one way or another. In short, these half solutions proposed are not in line with the content of the National Assembly. Much of the documents, about a third of the acts we receive by Members in hand, bear a code of confidentiality, and the question is how these documents will be printed, copied, distributed and so on. It is not only a question of rationalisation of costs that will not be incurred in this case, since the Secretary-General was not able to deliver the appropriate material to support her claims after eight attempts. It is easy for one part of the activities of the National Assembly to go out at the last moment, to be handed over to a private company that will sell these services in one way or another expensively back to the National Assembly. We will not support this change in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u257	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the proposal for a decree. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u258	Thank you very much. I'll just keep going, with all due respect to my colleagues. Yes, I can, I very much appreciate it, Mr Saiovic has given great attention to the college, where he has heard the second part of the medal, but you know, the main part of the medal is life, Mr Saiovic. Here we live, here we receive papers on the table, here we meet people and here they do what we ask. Sometimes we look at life, not what someone at the highest level is saying. Let's respect life. Remember if they've ever helped you and how many times they've helped you. Saving hundreds of thousands of euros – wonderfully, this will save the country in the millions and billions that others have stolen from the knowledge of the country. One more populism, you'll say, a comparison, but very cruel. We're going to shut down the printery, we're going to be 100 thousand euros, and we're going to be heroes, and the other hundred million are out there laughing nicely. Perhaps you will again have a printing press for the National Assembly. Come in. New printery – no money. Yeah, tell me one factory where a man doesn't charge amortization machines! And when he sees it coming to zero, or else this amortisation is intended for at least, if not another, extended reproduction. [[...]] These are the basics of the economy! And then with that money, buy a new machine. That's what we all do, including you and anyone who can buy a newer car once. It doesn't just come out of the luft, but now I don't, I can't. Of course you have to put it aside! Work security, pest control. Suddenly they remembered that this printing plant was harmful, but strangely because I think that protection at work, regular checks are in this house, regular observations are in this house, and even one comment, without I knowing it, is also one record of all the commissions and all the authorities that supervise protection at work, that work at the printing plant is dangerous, it is not, and now it is suddenly. Show me one record, and if this is the record, it is necessary to punish immediately the one who did not act when this record was. And another comparison. We can do this, so these people can be deployed, but I know they'll be on the road in a year, because they'll start saving people. The next step, let's make a deal, the indoor plant, is equivalent to the kitchen – let's close the kitchen, and you'll say catering will be cheaper. And who will believe you? Of course, it'll be cheaper, two and a half months, but I don't know how they'll drive, but how they'll swing around the tables. Then we'll see how expensive that is. I don't go into the organization, that's what people are set up to do, but if this is what organizations have been doing for the last three months, they've all known how things are going, and now, at this point and in this way. Thank you so much for those. I say I will be strictly against you, and you oppose all normal human, economic and other logics. But if anything is limping in the organizational field, there is sufficient time in the competent services to arrange it in the most rational and intelligent way. However, this certainly cannot be cheaper than outside the internal plant, which represents only and only a cost, labour costs, electricity costs and depreciation costs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u259	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u260	The proposal for a decree amending the Decision on internal organisation, working places and titles in the services of the National Assembly cannot explain what has been said here in at least two implementations, namely that there are hundreds of thousands and more savings. I also hear that the contractor has already been chosen. How can he be selected if this matter has not yet been made, as it should be in an organisational sense? I hear other things. That is why I cannot support him, nor will I vote against him, but in this way I find it really inappropriate to work at the last meeting of the National Assembly. If anything, he will have to prepare a new structure at the beginning of the National Assembly, one that will lead these services and all, some changes that are really urgently needed. You won't believe it. People pull me up the hall and tell me if they don't take the ATMs out of the hallway. I guess they will, because they're not jobs capable of agreeing that an ATM will be there, which is old, which is safe, and so on. Others steal from Ljubljana and Slovenia, but they have to stop it here because there is too little consumption or I don't know what. But people say that if we have no one to turn to in this house to protect us — not the MPs, but the workers — to write a letter to the bank, but to stand up for this ATM. But I listen to a number of other things because I'm disproportionately much time in this house. Then, as far as I'm concerned, it's really much better for someone who comes here with a new mandate to look at things new. You were probably also asked by MPs and Members; I was asked by a reporter about the fact that they were in a Parliament, I think in the upper house, but I don't know if in France or elsewhere, they started a mandatory iPod business and now they all just have to do it and they've shut down all the papers and stuff like that and so on. Something like this is likely to happen to us. Time is not right, and with what it says here, and with what I'm listening to, I just can't decide to support it. But I don't want to hurt progress if there's any progress. I won't go against it either, and let those who know more and who have prepared it. Here I say that it is not clear from this that the contractor has already been selected and that this will be cheaper. It is not obvious that I will not know how much, hundred thousand euros will be cheaper, and of course some things that I think will result in worse and also in long-term harm. I agree with those who say that sooner or later some workers will be overstepped if we go this way forward, and this is probably some kind of legality if we modernise and so on, but this is another discussion. So, as I say, I won't join the support, nor will I withdraw it if you really want to change that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u261	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. [[He's quitting.]] I am closing the debate and moving on to a decision. Since no amendments have been tabled to the motion for a decree, we are moving on to a decision on the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on Internal Organisation, Jobs and Names in the services of the National Assembly. Explanation of voice, Dr. Pavel Gantar. On behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u262	That's right, Mr. President. On behalf of the Group of Members, I would like to tell you that the Group of Members will vote in favour of this motion for a decree. First, it must be made very clear that the savings are €120,000 per year. That's the first thing. The other thing is, you need to know that reproduction and copying don't move out of this house. These lists we receive will be reproduced or copied here in this building. Printing and publishing are moving out. And there is no establishment in the National Assembly anywhere that has no chance of being priced compared to professional printers. It is clear, in this dilemma, whether to restore this printer with new machines or to put it out, the results are clear and speak for themselves, so there must be no doubt about it. If you want to worry about tax money, you have to start worrying about one euro, 10, 120 thousand and more euros. And that, of course, is such a concern. All the other stuff here is a little funny. I must say that this concern about the fate of workers and the number on paper consumption, which is decreasing in the National Assembly statistically – and it has been said how much has been reduced on the one hand, and on the other hand it is said to be increasing – indeed, it is not only humanitarianism and concern for workers who will remain, but perhaps care about who will lose the supply of paper. Therefore, the Group of Members will break this story and, of course, we will vote in favour of this decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u263	Thank you very much. If I have seen the hands correctly, two more explanations for the views of the groups of Members. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SNS Group, Mr Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u264	We will not support the decree because there is also one number, one data, one analytical basis, which would define that costs are being reduced, that processes are optimised and jobs maintained. One specification, one data. Show me one piece of information about all these claims, where to get, how much to gain, why to get and so on. Secondly, I am absolutely convinced that these workers are conscientious, good, helpful, do more than they need, and that none of these eight have their own paper suppliers to fight for. Eight of them, I'm sure they don't. For the others who are taller, but not for the others. But not for this paper that is now, but for whoever will. Thirdly, in the Slovenian National Party, we ask you once again to prepare an analysis, do an analysis of whoever will be in power, calculate and reorganise as you must, not on your nose, ad hoc, overnight. At the very least, if I didn't know all this, I would vote against what it says at the end: "In the event of the maintenance of the existing situation for all public officials of the department, the printing department will not be able to provide jobs." Logic says it's absolutely impossible and illogical. You know what this paragraph means, and this sentence, to someone who can read a little – a threat. In the Slovenian National Party, however, we are a threat against the threat [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u265	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogdan Barovich. Mrs. Breda Pečan, on behalf of the delegation or in person? In private. Anyone else in your personal name? I'm opening the application. Mr. Franci Kek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u266	Thank you for your word. The Slovenian people are probably very excited about this intense commitment of colleague Bogdan Barovic to this key development project for the Slovenian country, where it will be printed in the National Assembly. He said there was no data. I've been to a meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. We spent three hours talking about this printery, talking about everything. And in the end, the main call was, if you give us the papers, give us the calculations, show us the numbers. And when we received them after 20 minutes, as if nothing had happened, as if no one had shown us these calculations; there was still a debate on how to save Slovenia and who are the biggest villains in Slovenia. Given the well-known calculations that we have received, which show that there are 120 thousand savings per year, given that none of the workers will lose their jobs, we will support this issue.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u267	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u268	Thank you for your word, President. My colleague Kek already said what I was going to confirm. I've been on the Mandate Election Commission, too. At that time, after long interruptions and even after very determined demands, the opposition demanded the documentation we received, which in fact proves that this change will be significantly more cost-effective and will allow for a reduction in printing costs. At the same time, it is important to say that in the debate there some people have found that even in this case, there is a repetitive humorous story, such as the parody of self-government, where we have all tried to participate in something that is of a distinct technical nature, of a more economic nature, and for which some are also professionally in charge. But no, we all wanted to participate creatively in a decision we don't have the right data on. When we got the data and we remained so-called barefoot, with critical arguments, the debate shifted to other things because it was found that there was a technical service that did so. [[Incomprehensible]] Okay. That is why this discussion about what scenarios is completely irrelevant and, of course, we will support the draft updating of the National Assembly printer, because it is economical and saves. Citizens also need to know that taxpayers will cost 120 000 euros less than they do now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u269	Thank you very much. Voice explanation, Mrs. Breda Pecan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u270	Thank you for your word. I must say that, while I miss what was distributed to the MVK, it is a material from which information can be obtained on the actual reasons for this reorganisation and then also to broadcast printing outside the house. However, despite the fact that it represents €120,000 of annual savings, I need to draw your attention to something — when we talk about the purchase of printing paper, it depends very much on the ability of the purchasing service. I specifically learned from the head of one of the Slovenian administrative units that he decided not to purchase in the framework of the joint procurement of the state, the government, but to obtain the paper for the administrative unit itself. Why? As a result of the direct negotiations, it has come at a half-price lower than that achieved by the central purchasing unit within the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. So there's a lot to talk about. The same applies, for example, to the supply of a phone signal for fixed phones and similar things. So I must tell you that I do not support such a way of reorganisation, even for this reason, but I must say that it is a little political, because we are just ahead of the change of mandate and it would be right to leave the decision on such matters to the next suit, not only the leadership of the National Assembly, I am talking about technical leadership, but also the National Assembly in the composition that will come into this Chamber in a few months. I think it's still necessary to be reasonable enough to leave time. Consideration should be given if it is not possible to do well [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u271	Thank you very much. A self-explanation of the vote, Mr. Luka Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u272	Thank you very much. I will support the motion for a decree, but not because I think we have to move the press move elsewhere, but because I think that the press services in 2012 in the National Assembly have virtually nothing left to do. We could have done this without a single sheet of paper from the beginning of the term. In each office of Members and Members, there are printers that I think are completely irrelevant because they are unnecessary. Each Member and Member shall be given a computer, access to the Internet, and still all the material on paper. That seems completely illogical to me. At each corner of the hall, we have such high photocopying machines that we can print thousands and two thousand pages as much as we like, instead of looking a little further. We could do it completely electronically, except exceptionally, and it makes sense to me that we don't need printeries within the National Assembly. I hope that this decision is only temporary, so that we can gradually, I hope, as soon as possible, reduce even more printing services, and finally avoid the paper that we have in the National Assembly, given the technology we have, really has nothing left to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u273	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u274	Thank you so much for saying that. The first thing that falls into the eyes of the consideration of this point is that there was no proposer, and it would be easy to present all the effects of this decree that he has prepared and is employed in the House of the National Assembly. He was not even involved in the debate on these matters. There is also no explanation for the financial effects of the decision, nor has any material been delivered to support these effects. And I am sure that if these financial effects were actually the way you say they would be, then the amendment would stand here for a pay phone and all these things would be a pleasure to explain and to present them. He's not here. He has a salary in the National Assembly, he is employed here, he performs a function in this house, and he is not to present his only product in this mandate presented to the National Assembly. This says a lot about this decision and about this approach. Secondly, the problem is that for these services, which are supposed to be terminated by this Decision, an external contractor has already been selected. These services are not suspended, but are transferred to an external institution, and this external contractor was chosen before we changed the decree before the legal tender procedure was implemented. In short, it is an agreed game within the services of the National Assembly. It is unlikely that such approaches can be confirmed and taken as quickly as possible at the last meeting of the National Assembly, there is no need. If the savings and effects were indeed such, then there would have been five people here who would have advocated the matter, but at this point there were none and they didn't give any material. And also the decree in the explanatory memorandum is not equipped with these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u275	Thank you very much. Depending on my desire to explain my voice, I'm opening the application. A self-explanation of the vote, Mrs Melita Župevc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u276	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Very briefly. I will support this decree, but I would like to reject one claim or lie that has just been made. It is not true that we did not receive adequate material from the Secretary-General of the General Assembly at the meeting of the Committee on Elections. We received these materials and calculations at the explicit request of Jože Tanka from the SDS, but Mr Jože Tanko, from the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission, left, he was not interested in this material, although he was discussing it for hours, demanding interruptions, explanations and so on. So, the members of the Mandate-Volution Commission we got these calculations with the tables, but those who did these tables and these calculations [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Mr. President, may I say to the end?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u277	Dear colleagues, Mrs Melita Župevc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u278	Thank you, Mr. Tank, if he can last another minute. As it is said, we were given the specific calculations required by the Slovenian Democratic Party at the meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission. The Slovenian democratic parties were not interested in the calculations, nor were they discussed after they were presented to us. As I say, I will support this decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u279	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Mrs Melita Župevc obviously did not read what we received on the Mandate-Election Commission, because if she had read it, she would have seen that what we got was nothing more than a table with some dry matter figures. And that is what absolutely nothing says about some justification for such a change in the decree. If it were to change the business from paper to electronic, what my colleague Juri advocates would be my support. But we don't end this paper business here, but we give this business to someone else, pre-arranged. And when you talk about saving up, we all have to hold onto the wallet. There has certainly been some agreement in the background and it would probably be interesting to ask the Commission to prevent corruption if such a case were to be investigated. Next thing you know, here in that textal section, it's said that work is bad for these employees. Interestingly, trade unions have not spoken a single word about this, but trade unions are firmly opposed to such a change in reorganisation, as they fear that those employees who will now be temporarily relocated in some relatively short time will lose their jobs. So it's all just one deceiving. We didn't get any concrete materials either on the Mandate-Volume Commission or here. This is not justified by any text, but it is, above all, wrong that one day before the National Assembly is dissolved, such a reorganisation is being dealt with with with with with with a predetermined purpose. I cannot under any circumstances support this decree alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u281	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr. Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u282	Thank you very much. I really wish you guys one more time. Look. Tell me if I've triggered any political debate in two of my shows, and I don't want it. Please, colleagues and colleagues, do not do politicization at this point. It's simply the function of this National Assembly, it's about people, it's about some equipment we have and it's still in a useful position. Please! These cards are also what we get from these people and this printery, and a lot of other things. Go ahead, everybody. But now I have to say what I didn't want to say. If it were really urgent right now, for the first time, you'd know better. And secondly, if you really know everything that is said, I will answer with a question: Why does this national assembly arrive in the near future of about 30 new, I don't know how to top-notch printing machines? And I'm not going to continue here in that political direction as if I could, who the supplier is, and who the subscriber is, and so on. Why does he come when he's coming if that's what he meant? In fact, I agree with Luca the most. Yeah, Luke, you were right about everything, but before this world finds out how and what and why, it's gonna take a while. But since this action is overnight, of course no one but you has thought of it, and it could have been the first year seven years ago. I'll vote against it, absolutely! And I call on my colleagues and colleagues: be fair.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u283	Thank you very much. Just a warning. We are in the stage of explanations of vote and controversy between Members, not the true content of the explanations of vote. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u284	I will support the proposal for rationalization and savings. Mathematics is an exact science, doesn't need much explanation, and to me, the numbers that were presented on the election and appointment committee were clear and understandable. The Secretary-General has defended the savings of €120,000, and I have no reason to doubt her allegations. Comrade Bogdan, what you started, if you think buying printing machines is wrong, is your duty as an MP of this country, so we get paid to turn to those institutions that are investigating it and announce it. That's one truth. Otherwise, all congregations, all institutions do not have their own printing facilities, we do not have our own plumber, but because it is cheaper, the matter of outsorsama. And I don't expect the National Assembly to have a doctor, a dentist, a gynecologist, or a security guard in the next term because we have one in custody right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u285	Thank you very much. Once again, Members and Members, we explain our voice, and this is not meant to be an issue with Members who cannot answer. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mrs Janja Klasinc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u286	Dear Mr President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I'll vote against it. I will vote against this because I think today, two days before this House is dissolved, is not the time to decide on such matters. I know the Mandatory Electoral Commission got the materials. Unfortunately, I'm not a member of this commission, I haven't seen it and I don't believe in savings. You know why I don't believe them? Since I worked in the state administration for 10 years before I became an MP, and whenever we left internal activity in any ministry and allowed it to be carried out by external contractors, it was always more expensive, always more expensive. In all my experiences, it was more expensive in the end, and I therefore think that the new composition of the National Assembly should reconsider and decide, but not today. That's why, as I said before, I'm gonna go against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u287	Thank you very much. There is no more explanation for the vote, so we are moving on to a vote on the decree. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 14 votes against 40. [[The vote was 14.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it the ruling has not been adopted. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision amending the Decision appointing the members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by the Mandate-Electorial Commission for consideration by the assembly. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision that, on the proposal of humanitarian organisations that are listed in a humanitarian statement, the Member of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Disabled and Humanitarian Organizations in the Republic of Slovenia, Dragica Bac is dismissed under number 20. This Decision shall enter into force on the day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are going to examine the request of the District Court in Murska Sobota for permission to initiate criminal proceedings against the judge of the Supreme Court in Maribor and the judge of the District Court in Ptuj. The request was submitted to the National Assembly by the District Court of Murska Sobota. The request was addressed by the Mandate-Voluntary Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing. On the basis of Article 214 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly relating to Article 207, the National Assembly shall decide on the proposal for a decision without discussion. We're moving on to decision-making. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly to adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 134(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 99 of the Judicial Service Act relating to the request of the District Court in Murska Sobota, administrative number K269/2005, of 31. 3. 2009 to decide whether to initiate criminal proceedings against a judge of the Supreme Court in Maribor, Barbara Debevec for a criminal offence of abuse of an official position or official rights under Article 261/2-1 of the Penal Code does not grant immunity to a judge of the Supreme Court in the Murski Sobota Barbara Debevec and to allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, 61 votes against none. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The Commission proposes to the National Assembly that it adopt the following decision: the National Assembly, pursuant to Article 134(2) of the Constitution of Slovenia and Article 99 of the Judicial Service Act relating to the request of the District Court in Murska Sobota, administrative number K269/2005, of 31. 3. 2009 to decide whether to initiate criminal proceedings against the judge of the District Court in Ptuj Andrej Žmavc for a criminal offence of abuse of an official position or of official rights under Article 261/2-1 of the Penal Code does not grant immunity to the judge of the District Court at Ptuj Andre Zmavc and to allow the conduct of criminal proceedings. We're voting. There are 62 Members and Members present, 62 votes against none. [[62 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision on the conclusion of the termination of the post of Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission. It's a Magnificent message. Ms Bizjak Mlakar resigned from the Group of Social Democrats, and the National Assembly took note of the following decision on the basis of Rule 112, Article 200 and Article 201 of the Rules of Procedure: Members are found to be mags. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar has ceased to be a member of the Group of Social Democrats. As a result of the termination of membership in the Group of Social Democrats, the Mag. Juliani Bizjak Mlakar as Vice-President of the Constitutional Commission. The Members shall cease to function on the date of the meeting of the National Assembly. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 15th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the Proposal for a Law on the Seizure of Property of Unlawful Origin under the ordinary procedure On Tuesday 18 October 2011, the National Assembly held a second reading of that proposal. Since amendments were adopted in the second reading to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law, the assembly decided, on a proposal from the proposer of the draft law, that, pursuant to Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the third reading of the draft law would take place at that meeting. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I'm informing you that the Legal and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that it was due to [[...]] I apologize, but I note that the draft law on third reading has been tabled as an amendment to Article 4 by the Group of Members. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendment tabled that you have received. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment to this Article. Does anyone want to discuss it? He wants to, so I'm opening an application for a debate. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u288	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I was surprised earlier because I was sure everyone had already received the amendment. Well, then we've cleared up, and we know. The fact is that we are proposing an amendment to Article 4 with the aim of correcting the adoption of the Slovenian Democratic Party's amendment, which amended the article so that if we applied that amendment, we would actually extend the financial investigation resulting from the criminal procedure, including the suspicions of any criminal offence. This means that an actual financial investigation would be initiated for all, including the slightest suspicion of a criminal offence, which would, of course, be contrary to the constitutional principle of proportionality, proportionality, which in fact sets out the purpose of the law itself. So we think that the solution we are proposing is significantly more concrete, rational, and this solution strengthens the effectiveness of the article itself and of the whole law. So I urge the Members to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u289	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u290	Thank you very much. I have asked the right people, including the Secretary of State, what this amendment means, because I would like to make a substantive examination of what this is about, and in fact the truth is that we are correcting some damage that would have happened with this amendment. I'll give you a comparison. If I hadn't paid for my cell phone, I would have started after yesterday's amendment to Article 4 of the Criminal Procedure or these investigations through the D.A.'s Office, research and I don't know what else. But, well, I, if we had this opportunity and this power, I wouldn't mind, but it's about bringing back what's practice in this country, but it's a very ugly, dirty and unfair practice. Once again, we'd start hunting for chicken thieves, investigating them, and any poor person who made a mistake, and what's a little bit more valuable, which is also worth looking into in detail under this law and further incriminating and judicial proceedings, would be lost in this crowd. Following this explanation from yesterday's adopted amendment by colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party and the amendment tabled today, which corrects the matter and gives the actual situation that the competent authorities will indeed investigate what needs to be investigated – for this reason I will probably support the amendment already tabled by the Zares Group on behalf of or in agreement with the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u292	Thank you so much for saying that. This law was introduced at the beginning, in a fig pocket, because there were so many obstacles in the marriage itself that it would prevent anyone from actually confiscating illegal property. Although the amendment to Article 4 has been adopted, which has loosened the matter slightly, and although the amendment has then been adopted so that the financial investigation can be made from 1. 1. In 1990, however, there are still so many fuses left in the law for the various magpies that I think insistence on this fuse, so that it would be possible to confiscate the property or even begin with financial investigation procedures only, what is being done now, really, if the crime were premeditated and could be punished for 5 years in prison or more. Just proving the perceptiveness of an act is such a major obstacle. It's very difficult for us to prove this, which means that this fuse is very strong. So I think that those of you who are so afraid that one of the different friends will come into consideration for the taking away of property, I think this fear is very, very excessive. Even though the amendment to Article 4 has been adopted, the fuses are still very, very strong, and I think this fear, which is why you want to strengthen these guards so that no one will be deprived of their property, is already perverted. I think that if this law, which was originally intended only for some populist action, is adopted in the form it is now, we have at least a chance that something will be done by taking some illegally acquired property. But if we can strengthen these guards, then we really don't have any special options. For this reason, my fellow Members, I propose that you reject this proposal by Zares because it is not justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u293	Thank you very much. The debate is no longer open, so I am concluding the debate. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment to Article 4. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, with 37 votes against 19. [[The vote was 37.]] [[Against 19.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We're done deciding on the amendments. I inform you that the Legislative and Legal Service, or the Government, did not warn me that the amendments adopted at the meeting of the home working body or of the National Assembly would make the bill inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. I'm opening an application for reasons on my own behalf. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr Miro Petek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u294	Thank you so much for saying that. Of course, this marriage is not perfect. A number of other things could be added, improved, and we could also listen to the Legislative and Legal Service at some points without having a new law then having any problems in the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, you didn't accept our amendment on the committee yesterday either, so that a period of 20 years could take place instead of five years when a financial investigation could be carried out. Well, there is something small here to repair Article 57, which in certain cases allows this financial investigation to continue for the period from 1990 onwards. What good does this marriage do? This marriage is a fine opportunity for all those who have come to Slovenia in tights and have very soon made a wonderful fortune. These people will be able to prove that they have obtained this property by legal means, that they have obtained it with work, innovation or not. Those who have received property in these years with honesty, work, have no fear of this law either. However, I am afraid that this law will not have any exaggerated effect in the future, because, given who is going into politics, we can fear that some kind of Berlusconi mentality is coming, and those who turn to this authority could change these and other laws to themselves and to their sons in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u295	Thank you very much. A self-explanation of the vote, Mr. Luka Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u296	Thank you very much. I will support the law, although with some reservations, mainly because of the climate that has emerged over the past two years, on some ground, but especially in the last two years of this negative approach, these indignations towards those who are successful, towards those who have more and who therefore have more assets. It is easy to beat and scream against that one percent by those who speak, although not by representing the other 99, to match everything with potential tycoons. Here I would just like to point out that things are not such that, however, a successful liberal society, which is based ultimately on an economic economy, is successful because of entrepreneurs, because of the initiatives of individuals who want, who dream, who have a vision and who work, who work at night, who think at night, how the next day will be even better. And this should be more energetic in Slovenia, with greater optimism to support, highlight, encourage, because if the neighbor is more successful, I will probably have some of it too. Let this be the mentality that's about to wear off, not the other way around, so the cow dies next door. I will support with a few concerns and with the desire and hope that we will actually go to the false, that we will tackle those who have stolen, those who have done what is right, who have been working with a start, with a vision, and not only will we leave them alone, but we will also encourage them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mr. Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u298	Dear colleagues and colleagues! I'm not going to support the marriage myself, just because I can't support it. Why can't I support him? Because I'm a representative of the legislative branch of power and I have to follow the law. However, since the law is clearly and loudly defined by the Legislative and Legal Service, that it is first of all incompatible with itself and that it is also inconsistent with other laws, it does not seem fair and unfair for the representative of the legislative branch to adopt such a law. I will base my non-definition on Article 3 of the Legislative and Legal Service, which states: "Article 3 provides that the procedure for financial investigation and the determination of the legality of assets shall be carried out if, in criminal or pre-trial proceedings, individuals are suspected of having property of illicit origin. In order to carry out the financial investigation, only the suspicion of the existence of illegal property, which is too low a standard of evidence, and such a standard of proof is inconsistent with the provisions of the law governing criminal proceedings, for the stage of the pre-trial procedure in 10. Article." This is why, as a representative of the legislative branch of power, I cannot support this law, even though its content, if properly done, would be greatly supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u299	Thank you very much. A self-explanation of the vote, Mr. Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u300	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. When we came to this law, we approached these very sensitive issues very prudently, prudently, but decisively. Our aim was to curb the overpowering of organised crime through the availability of suspicious assets, which is often the basis for organised crime fighting the rule of law in a highly technologically sophisticated way. We have taken over and followed some good practices in other European countries, and we have found that it is possible to combat this overriding of organised crime, including economic crime, without prejudice to certain constitutional rights to be respected. Among other things, we opposed some amendments because these amendments would devalue the key purpose of the law and drown its effectiveness in a swamp of rich investigations where only high capitals would be saved and paid would only be affected by those who do not represent the social groups to which this law is intended. This is about being very direct, anti-mafia law, even in the preventive sense of the word. With such a law, all the infrastructure with which crime is now at its disposal will be crippled, and it is intended to do so. That is why we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u301	Thank you very much. There's still an interest in explanation of vote, so I'm opening the application. Explanation of the vote on its own behalf, Mrs Juliana Bizjak Mlakar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u302	Thank you very much again for your word. I will support this law myself, because I believe it is time for Slovenia to receive such a law, which allows for the seizure of assets of illegal origin. Although this law is not as good as our neighbouring countries, Croatia, Serbia, and I do not mention Ireland, which is among the most effective countries in this area, it is nevertheless an important step forward for Parliament to be able to amend this law in its new composition in this direction, in order to make it truly more effective and to bring ourselves closer to those countries that are also successful in dealing with crime of different kinds in this area. The tycoons are not involved elsewhere, except in Croatia and Serbia, of course, and they are very effective there. As many friends have told me, there are criminals who prefer to prove where their assets come from, simply to have their property cancelled, because it would be too dangerous to try to reveal how they came to this property. I think it is time for these steps to be triggered in Slovenia as well and that our country would also become a more legal country and even more ethical. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u303	Mr. Jože Tanko, explanation of voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u304	Thank you very much. I will support the law, despite the fact that the amendment of the Zares Group, which is making the solution significantly worse, has been adopted. And perhaps it would not be too late, although it is now too late for the proponents to explain who are now those who, because of this amendment, are excluded from this law, which this law no longer applies. This would be a fair explanation, because this amendment, which is making it worse, which is already not too good, actually just means that a certain circle, a certain group of people from the hunts of this law, and this is a systemic one. I believe that proposing such laws just to create some media impression that something is going to be done, and then the bad amendment proposal is getting worse, so that certain groups, networks or whatever we call it, are being excluded from the effects of the law, is not a proper act. Now we will have a marriage that looks beautiful and has excellent principles, and there will be no serious consequences against those to whom it is intended. Perhaps there are two remaining who fall under the provisions of this law, and everything else will be eliminated by this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Mr. Gregor Golobich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u306	Thank you very much. Mr. Tanko deserves an answer. I would tell him that Mr Barovic had already replied to him. By rejecting your amendment, all those who would result in ineffectiveness, impoverishment of law enforcement authorities, who must persecute all those who today, due to the absence of such legal solutions, are skillfully avoiding answering the question of where their assets are at their disposal. I believe there are many who have a very clear answer to who this is. All those who are theirs are always wrongly convicted, accused or tried, and they do not recognize the courts in this country. This law restores power to the courts, restores power to the police, restores power to the prosecution, restores power to those institutions that are so easily mutilated when those who feel themselves are innocent and are always guilty of others. This law prevents or eradicates, reduces this mentality and is therefore worthy of support. It does not make any selection by the colors of political affiliation or anything like that, but it allows for the eventual effective persecution of those who, by what they are and as they are, cause great dissatisfaction with people, in all those who see it, have faith in the rule of law, and this is one of the key shortcomings that this government or that government is going to face today, but with which every future government, every future policy, and one of the key issues that is ahead of this country will be addressed. That's why this marriage is a pebble in this mosaic. It doesn't solve all the problems. We are pleased to have initiated this debate, that then the government came along, that the law had improved in many ways. You know, there have been a lot of legal dilemmas here that have been resolved in the best possible way right now. I believe it will be possible to upgrade it in the future, but only if we respect the institutions of the rule of law that receive strong tools in their hands through this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-19-SDZ5-Redna-32.ana.u307	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 55 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 1. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda, this is the third reading of the draft Law on Audiovisual Media Services in the framework of the regular procedure. The National Assembly is on Tuesday, 18. Ten. In 2011, the second reading of that proposal was carried out. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a bill-maker, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, at that meeting, it would hold a third examination of the draft law. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the draft law on third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 54 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 14. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against the 14th.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I conclude the 32nd meeting of the National Assembly. Colleagues and colleagues, please allow me just one more message. The President of the Constitutional Commission, Dr Pavel Gantar, announces that the meeting of the Constitutional Commission, which was convened for Thursday, 20 October 2011, at 8 a.m. You have received a written communication from the members and members of the Constitutional Commission. My colleagues and colleagues, I thank you for working in this session and I wish you, given that this was the last regular meeting in this term, that you continue to have a good time this evening and thank you very much. The meeting was closed on 19 October 2011 at 18.59.
