ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, and Article 20, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members and Members: Breda Pecan, whom I see here, Anton Anderlich, Alojz Posedel, Franci Kek. Breda Pecan will attend today's meeting. I invited the President of the Government, the Minister and the Ministers to the 1st item of the agenda, the representative of the Council of State to the 20th item of the agenda and the representative of the Office of the President of the Republic and the candidate for a Constitutional Judge to the 24th item of the agenda and the representatives of the Government to all items of the agenda. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda for the 26th meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to session 16. 3. 2011. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any motions to withdraw the item from the agenda. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of proposals for an extension of the agenda. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice proposes to the National Assembly that the agenda be extended by consideration of the proposal for a law on financial transactions, insolvency proceedings and forcible termination, EPA 1602/V, urgent procedure. You received the proposal by record of 22. 3. 2011. Would you like a representative of the proposer, the chairman of the committee? [[He doesn't want to.]] Does the representative want to speak to the bill-maker, this is a group of Members, with the first-signed Jozet Tank? [[He doesn't want to.]] Would you like a word from the government? [[He doesn't want to.]] Representatives of parliamentary groups? [[They don't want to.]] I am closing the debate on the proposals for enlargement and moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 68 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. Who's in? [[68 Members.]] Is anyone against it? [[Nobody.]] I note that the proposal for extension has been adopted. The assembly will consider the draft law as 3A item on the agenda on Wednesday 30. 3. 2011. With regard to the extension just adopted, I inform you that the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, at its 52nd urgent meeting, on 18 March 2011, on the basis of Articles 117 and 127 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, has carried out a procedure to deal with three proposals for laws governing the same social relationship and has proposed to the Assembly that the agenda of the 26th session be extended by means of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Financial Operations, insolvency and forced termination procedures, urgent procedure, EPA 1602/V. The Committee also included in its consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Financial Action Act, insolvency and forcible termination procedures, first reading, EPA 1530/V, which was included on the agenda of this meeting under item 15. With the decision of the Committee to lose its independence, the National Assembly will not treat it as a separate item of the agenda. The Group of Members – Lawmakers – will have the rights and duties of the proposer under this Rules of Procedure in the context of the examination of item 3.a. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 97th meeting, on 16. 3. 2011 decided that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and determining their areas, EPA 1645/V, should be considered in a simplified manner. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of 20 Members and Members, with the first signed by Dr. Luka Yuri, requested that the National Assembly decide on that decision by the College of the President of the National Assembly. In accordance with the second paragraph of Article 142 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it is required to place the first meeting of the Assembly on the agenda without discussion and vote. The meeting will consider this requirement in accordance with the timing of the meeting as the 23rd A item of the agenda, today in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda, as received by reference and with a follow-up. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 71 votes against 3. [[The vote was 71.]] [[Against three.]] I take it that the agenda for the 26th meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving to five. Agenda item — Defence proposal for a law amending the law on the mother's registration of insured persons and enjoymentrs of the rights of deceased and invalidity insurance, summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Dr Anji Kopač Mrak, State Secretary at the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u2	Thank you for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The amendment to the Law on the Accountability of Insurance and Retirement and Disabled Persons covers only the deletion of one article of the law, which entails a heavy administrative burden or a high cost for data providers, i.e. the debtors, as well as for records-keeping bodies. The new law will therefore bring only positive changes for those who provide data, as well as for those who keep records. The amendment of the law removes the local authority to apply for compulsory pension and disability insurance as well as for all other three insurance schemes, i.e. for parental protection, unemployment and health insurance. Investing in insurance and cancellation and reporting of changes will take place in a new location chosen by the debtor, i.e. the data provider, while changing the place of business of the debtor or the place of work of the debtor will no longer require a change in the already submitted applications. The amendment to the law, which deletes the provisions on local jurisdiction, represents a major removal of administrative barriers and a reduction of administrative barriers, and will therefore only bring real good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u4	Mr President, Madam Secretary of State with a co-worker, colleague and fellow Members, nice greeting! The Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Persons with Disabilities has considered the proposal for a law amending the Law on the National Register of Pension and Disabled Persons Rights, submitted by the Government to the National Assembly for its consideration and adoption following a reduced procedure. Representatives and representatives of the Government, the Legal and Legislative Service and the Council of the State attended the meetings of the Committee. In the introductory supplementary explanation of the articles, the representative of the applicant, the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, said that the proposed amendment of the law removes the local competence to apply for compulsory pension and disability insurance, which are also applications for other compulsory social insurance. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented her written opinion and said that their concerns had been resolved by the amendments tabled by the coalition. Without discussion, the Committee adopted the amendments of the coalition groups to Articles 1, 2 and 3 of the draft law and voted on the articles of the proposal and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended draft law is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u6	Good afternoon, welcome, respectable! In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we always support the reduction of administration and unnecessary bureaucracy, but not at all costs. We estimate that the law before us is a meaningful simplification of the data collection system necessary for the implementation of pension and disability insurance. It is important for us that the submission of applications takes place in one place chosen by the debtor and, at the same time, the change in the place of work of the insured or the place of business does not require an amendment to the already submitted applications. It is important that this will, in particular, relieve the applicants of the application, ensure greater data reliability and indirectly increase the legal and social security of the insured and beneficiaries of pension and disability insurance rights. On the Committee, the Legislative and Legal Service has confirmed that their comments have been taken into account by amendments, and our concerns have also been removed. That is why we also support the reduced procedure of law and law itself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u8	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to colleagues and colleagues, including the secretary of state with a co-worker. The proposed amendment to the law on the home records of insured persons and beneficiaries of pension and disability benefits removes the local competence to invest in compulsory pension and disability insurance, which are also applications for other compulsory social insurance. The application shall be filed in one place chosen by the debtor and, at the same time, the change in the place of work of the insured or the place of business does not require an amendment to the already submitted applications. This will make it easier for the undertakings to invest in these applications, in particular business operators in the economy and in the economy. It means removing a very large administrative barrier, which has already been introduced on several occasions by business operators and by state authorities. The proposed amendments aim at simplifying the data collection system necessary for the implementation of pension and disability insurance, decommissioning of the debtors for the application of the application authority and the registry manager. A simpler data collection system also increases the level of correctness, consistency and up-to-date of these data, reducing the number of required data reporting and reducing the likelihood of errors and delays in these applications. In the DeSUS Group, we estimate that the bill will bring about simplification and thus less red tape and a greater review of the data needed for the implementation of pension and disability insurance, so we will support the bill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Miran Györek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. In fact, the amendment of the law on the home records of pension and disability insurance beneficiaries is only a matter of amending one article or the provisions on local competence to apply data for pension and invalidity insurance, which will undoubtedly allow for a simpler application procedure for data for the debtors, while at the same time removing certain administrative obstacles and the resulting administrative costs, i.e. for a long-term reduction in the costs of public administration, to relieve the authorities that accept applications and, last but not least, this is a positive and useful solution for data applicants, particularly for employers. We are in the Slovenian National Party and will always support such and similar amendments or additions to laws that will ensure the prudent rationalisation of any administrative costs and follow the principle of economy in the field of public administration. Unfortunately, we also note that this is not the only law that should be amended in this substantive segment, but that this principle or objective should also be pursued in other ministries. On the contrary, they do not deal with this issue at all or even work in the opposite direction. The data on the increase in administration and some of the staff volume, the number of employees in public administration, is confirmed by such a claim. Therefore, in the Slovenian National Party, we expect and ask the Government, in particular its President, to instruct all its ministers to verify and identify in their own sector in due course all possibilities for rationalising administrative procedures and consequently human resources rationalisation and budgetary burdens. While the government has declared and promises such and similar measures in terms of reducing the number of officials employed by thousands of offices, various state offices, agencies, directors, funds, inspectorates, etc., this is actually a tough nut and, as we see, fails to break it. It is clear as a white day that the Slovenian economy, the real sector is far from capable of maintaining and paying such a large price for our relatively small country, many, expensive and non-productive administrations. To be honest, we are, in fact, guilty of this as legislators ourselves, and we can claim that the opposition Members have a clear conscience, because more than we can warn and demand, unfortunately, we are once again in a minority and still voted on. If I return to the subject matter, this is our agreement on the objectives of the proposed amendments, which will ensure the simplification of the data collection system necessary for the implementation of pension and disability insurance, to relieve the applicants of applications to increase the level of regularity, consistency and up-to-date of such data and records, we will certainly vote in favour of such a proposal for amending the law in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Miran Jerič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u12	Thank you for your word. Honourable President of the National Assembly, distinguished Secretary of State with co-worker, esteemed colleague and fellow Members! The implementation of compulsory pension and disability insurance requires data kept in the home account of the insurers and beneficiaries of rights. The law on the home records of insured persons and beneficiaries of pension and disability benefits was adopted under Article 203 of the Pension and Disability Insurance Act. The maintenance of the home record shall comprise a series of tasks to be carried out by both data providers and record managers in order to achieve, on the one hand, the completeness and, on the other hand, the correctness of the data covered. The amendment to the Proposal for a Law amending the Law on the Register of Pension and Disability Benefits provides for the possibility for the debtors to submit an application, cancellation or modification of data on pension and disability insurance to any unit or to issue an authorised Slovenian Health Insurance Office for all their insured persons, irrespective of the place of work or other circumstances. At the same time, as a result of the change in the circumstances to which the establishment of the local authority for lodging the application has been linked so far, it is no longer necessary to amend the data on the insurance or cancellation of the previous and the application of the new insurance. The amended rules on the place of application for insurance reduce the number of insurance applications and cancellations that are an obligation to the debtors, thereby reducing the burden on the authority which accepts these applications, namely the Institute of Health Insurance of Slovenia and the Authority which keeps records of the pension and disability insurance data, as well as other users and data from the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for Employment, the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia and also the Tax Administration of the Republic of Slovenia. Since we believe that this law not only facilitates the access of citizens and citizens to the rights belonging to them from compulsory pension and disability insurance, but also simplifies the data collection system while at the same time ensuring greater completeness and regularity of the data transmitted, we will support the proposal for a law in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u14	Thank you very much, Mr. President. The law that is currently under way is indeed not very demanding in technical terms, but it is not irrelevant. On the contrary. With this simple solution, there is a great deal of gain in various areas, and therefore he has come across affection and support for unrelated Members. Otherwise, it is also time for this provision on local jurisdiction to be amended as it comes from the time of the Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia. And perhaps two decades are enough to update and update data capture and management, including with regard to what modern information technologies enable us to do. The law, as it is now, is quite complex in its unnecessary nature, and the solutions it proposes bring about a breakdown of these unnecessary procedures, and in this context, the already mentioned discharge and the achievement of a 25% reduction plan for administrative barriers in this year and next year, as well as the reduction of unnecessary tasks and costs associated with it. The solution speaks long-term of reduced costs. This is not exactly the case for a short period of time, because those who manage this data will have to update their information support in a different way, and will also have to train people who know how to manipulate these information bases properly. This means, therefore, some financial and labour burden on those who manage these databases. However, since the objective is focused in the long term, it is clear that these efforts to be made, as well as resources, are justified in this longer period and therefore need our support. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we will support this proposal of the law because for all those who are linked to these records, they represent a simplified and updated form of work.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u16	Hello again. The law on the home records of insured persons and beneficiaries of pension and disability benefits is governed by a parental record containing data on the implementation of pension and disability insurance. By amending the law proposed, the local authority to apply for compulsory pension and disability insurance shall be abolished, which are also applications for other compulsory social insurance. This will make it easier for the undertakings to invest in these applications, in particular business operators in the economy and in the economy. It means removing a very large administrative barrier, for which both business operators and state authorities have already taken the initiative several times. The change is mainly technical. It simplifies the data collection system and indirectly increases the completeness and regularity of the data transmitted, thus also increasing the legal and social security of policyholders and beneficiaries of pension and disability rights. We propose that the amendment of the law on the home records of insured persons and beneficiaries of pension and disability insurance rights, as well as on the Committee on Labour, Family and Social Affairs and disabled Members and Members of Parliament, be supported at the meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Marijan Pojbič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u18	Your Honor! The proposed law amending the law on the home records of insured persons and beneficiaries of pension benefits is deleted from article 24 of the amended law. The proposed amendment follows the principle of economics and economics, as the implementation of Article 24 of the Law to the taxpayers for the communication of data on insured persons under the law on pension and disability insurance caused excessive costs and complications as they had to apply to a specific unit of the pension and disability insurance institution or to a specified exposure of the health insurance institution. After the adoption of the amendment of the law, which deletes the local jurisdiction of the submission of applications, it will be possible to submit a notification, cancellation or modification of the data on disability insurance to any unit or to issue an authorised Slovenian Health Insurance Office. We will support this change because it is a short but useful law. We would also like the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to invest in the future in the adoption of laws which are undeniably positive, positively oriented in terms of reducing the costs of state authorities and in terms of simplification in dealing with legal and natural persons. We will support this bill in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u19	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 9th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. Agenda item — Second defence of the draft law on amendments and additions to the laws in the land book under the ordinary procedure. The draft law was submitted to the assembly by a group of 17 Members and Members, with a first-signed magi. Borut Saiovic. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed Magi Act. Borut Saivitz.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u20	Thank you very much, President for your word. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In our view, we have re- tabled a proposal for a law that is still important and necessary. For this is the law of the book of the earth. It's no secret that the laws of the veto in the State Council have fallen. Today, we have a new complemented form that eliminates all these controversial dilemmas and problems, but we are convinced that the solutions proposed are good and appropriate. The Law on the Land Book was passed in 2003 long ago. The main solutions to the law were, on the one hand, the arrangements for land-booking procedures and rules for the management of the land-book, the definition of the land-book as an important public book, which highlighted its fundamental function, which is the public publication of all data on property rights and legal facts related to real estate, which are still important for legal proceedings. The law was amended in 2007 and 2009. The first novel set out the introduction of electronic proposals into the land book and thus the formalisation of the land book, or, if we say domestically, the final entry of the land book and the land book procedures into the 21st century. The extensive informationisation of the procedures and system of the Land Book has been drawn and the new ZZK-1B, which was adopted in 2009, postponed the use and start-up of the electronicisation of the Land Book to 1 May 2011. The draft amendment that we have tabled in the parliamentary procedure builds on the solution that has been adopted so far and takes them one step further. Our goal is to fully inform the land book. The key solutions to the novels under consideration could be summarized into the next three points. On the one hand, we simplify and define faster procedures for citizens and citizens while increasing their and our common legal certainty in these procedures. It also seems important to us to relieve the courts at the level of technical tasks, as the work carried out so far by the Land Book References will be carried out by notaries under the new regime. The new regime is also important for the submission of land book proposals themselves. Following the proposed regulation, the submission of land-book proposals is basically, I stress once again, notary work. In addition to notaries, it will also be possible for natural and legal persons to do so on their behalf, including lawyers, companies that meet the conditions for the provision of real estate services, public and municipal law as an agent of the applicant and also of a natural person. Full information on the operation of the Land Book, all procedures relating to the entries in the Land Book and the later use of these data in different procedures will now be carried out electronically. Even though it is not purely and exclusively for electronic form, a central depository will also be available to all at the District Court in Ljubljana, where it will continue to be possible not only by electronic means, but also by written submission of applications. The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Land Book Act itself follows fully the comments and opinions of the State Council, which have been exposed. In particular, there are key changes which, in the opinion of the Council of State, are expected to significantly undermine post-location capacity. The proposal adequately addresss all these concerns, since, following the proposed regulation, the land book proposal will be able to compose, complete and send to everyone in electronic form. The solutions and provisions of the bill certainly mean, in practice, the upgrading of the existing land book system, which is still for the benefit of citizens as well as all other stakeholders involved in land-booking procedures. In my opinion, the solutions are meaningful, good and constitute a last step towards the process of complete informationising the land book, and I also hope that, following a decision on the home committee, the law will also be supported by Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u22	Thank you very much. The Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice Committee discussed the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Land Book Act at its 29th meeting on 9 March 2011 and the first signed proposal was Mr Saiovic and published in the Rapporteur. We had the following documents: the opinion of the Government, the Legislative and Legal Service, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for State Procedure, the Council of Justice, the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Notary. Mr Saiovic, representative of the candidates, said roughly what we have just heard. In his presentation of their opinion, the legislative and legal service or Mr Divac said that given the scope of the proposed amendments and the addition, it would suggest that this matter should be regulated by a new law and not by amendments to the law. With regard to the comments on Articles 40 and 93, he said that they were taken into account in the coalition amendments tabled. Ms Pivkova of the Council of Justice said in her presentation of their written opinion that the Council of Justice does not fully support the bill, because certain proposed solutions might affect the legal security of citizens. The representatives of the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, Borut Gržinič and Franci Gerbec, said that in limiting the postulation capacity for the submission of land-book proposals, the legal measure should be taken into account, as it is regulated in limiting business capacity. The Committee was invited to adopt several amendments which they considered would be more appropriate in order to regulate the registration procedures in the Land Book, but Members did not decide to adopt these amendments in the form of amendments to the Committee. The Committee then adopted amendments to the SD, Zares and DeSUS groups, i.e. coalition parliamentary groups, to the sixth articles, but did not accept the amendments of the opposition or the SDS Group of Members to the seventh articles and did not vote on the amendments of the SDS Group to all the remaining articles because they had become irrelevant. Finally, the Committee voted on all the articles of the bill and confirmed them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u23	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u24	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, you are most welcome! Today you are considering a proposal for a law on the land book or amendments and a supplement to this law, which has been tabled by a group of Members. This marriage proposal largely, in fact, summarises the solutions proposed by the Government last year when this law was dealt with in Parliament and later rejected by the Council of State. The Basic Law on the Land Book was adopted in 2003. The reasons for the adoption of this basic act were, in particular, three. One was the harmonisation of land-booking procedures with the then adopted real law. The second reason was to ensure a systematicly rounded regulation of all rules of land-book law and the third most linked to today's bill was to adapt and introduce new rules on the computerised main book of the land book with the possibility of general direct electronic access. Two novels were later adopted, namely the first novel A in 2007, which introduced the legal basis for the submission of electronic proposals and also introduced a legal basis for the establishment of a single local authority or the abolition of individual local jurisdiction to decide on land-book proposals. The technical implementation of these solutions took a long time, and therefore a decision was taken by novel B, which was adopted in 2009, to postpone the application of this Regulation as of 1 May 2011. Why is all of this important, and why do I put it especially? This is because this proposal for a law before you today is essentially the end of this process, which began decades ago. This law, which is before you today, means the realization of the complete informationization of the land book, which was already drawn up in 2007. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia supports the proposed solutions to the bill. During the legislative procedure for the consideration of the government proposal for a novel, the main concerns were regarding the proposed regime for the submission of land-book proposals. The Government believes that the proposal of the law before you today, to an appropriate extent, removes these concerns and gives clear answers to the postulational capacity and to all the questions raised by any limitation of this ability in past procedures. Following the proposed arrangement, a land-book proposal may be drawn up or completed or sent to anyone or anyone who has a legal interest in achieving an entry into the land book. Following the proposed arrangements, the submission of the Land Book Proposal is a notary exercise. The notary shall, on behalf of the applicant, submit a landscaping proposal as the authorising officer of the applicant. In addition, this proposal offers other options, namely that any natural or legal person may also submit such a proposal on his own behalf, as a representative of the proposer may also submit such a proposal to a lawyer, to independent entrepreneurs or to an economic company which fulfils the conditions for the provision of real estate services, and may also make such proposals and, last but not least, may submit such a proposal to the public or municipal authorities. With the amendment adopted on the home working body, the draft law has been supplemented and now allows the applicant to directly submit the proposal for the title of ownership to his benefit in the order of submission of this proposal also directly to the record before the court. The Ministry of Justice notes that the proposed solutions are in line with the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia as representatives of the judiciary and the entities responsible for the Land Book Information Project. As I have already said, the government supports the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, distinguished Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! I will present the position of the DeSUS Group on amendments to the Land Book Act. Changes in the land-booking system have already been subject to consideration at both the meetings of the National Assembly in this mandate and the subject of coordination. Changes in the direction of optimisation and formalisation of land-booking processes are certainly necessary in our view. It is also essential to follow information and communication technologies in these matters. The latter must surely be followed by an increase in the effectiveness of the functioning of judicial institutions, in particular to the Court of Justice in these procedures to speed up the resolution of judicial backlogs and to reduce the duration of these proceedings. We agreed with certain solutions when we considered the government proposal last autumn, for the most part, all members of the National Assembly, disagreements were only on some points and were decisive in the re-voting. Therefore, we are Members who are investors of this novel, which is an acceptable solution for qualified investors in land-book proposals. The proposal, after our assessment, aims to ensure efficient and optimized informationisation of the land book, to ensure greater legal certainty in this area and to ensure that the parties to a more friendly, faster and rational land-book procedure. These are the reasons that speak for both our signatures and the purpose of voting for the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u28	Dear Mr President, Mr Secretary of State! Obviously, the Land Book Act is a demanding law because it has received numerous debates and corrections offered to us both by the Government and the parties offering debate and adoption of various versions, which have so far not been acceptable both to the majority of the Assembly and to the representatives of the Economic Chamber, the Council of Justice, the municipalities and the Legislative and Legal Service. In 2007, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Land Book Act was adopted, which established a number of new solutions for decision-making on land-book proposals, including that everyone can propose in classical form and that this option was rejected in subsequent proposed laws and was granted only to notaries and lawyers. The proposed novel is now changing and opening up the possibility of investing in a wider range of investors and thus correcting the government version of the novel, which has not experienced support in the National Assembly. Thus, it is now possible to submit a land-book proposal to a natural or legal person, on its own behalf an independent entrepreneur or an economic company, as well as to state or municipal law. We must certainly agree and cannot, despite the fact that the land-booking procedure is a judicial procedure, therefore, post-location capacity is adequately limited. It is practically a revised version of the law prepared by the Government and has not received support in the National Assembly. The proposer explains that the proposal contains comments and solutions from the discussions in previous proposals, when they did not have support, we believe that it is essential in Article 125a that the land-book proposal can be submitted directly by the applicant, of course, if he so wishes. We have discussed the details of the law a lot, so it would be wrong to repeat ourselves. The proposed law is certainly acceptable and seems to support it, as it offers positive changes. It is a matter of simplification, which the previous bill could not be said, since it was mainly a matter of narrowing down the rights to make land-book proposals. However, there remain concerns about the harmonisation of the investment, which will be electronicised and will require a process for investing under the same system of all those who will invest. The land book lot will have to have its own land book proposal and each land plot will have to have its own court fee, which is likely to mean that notaries will also charge several proposals, and will also apply to those who invest themselves. For each plot of land, a specific record will have to be drawn up, and for each plot of land, it will be up to the applicant to submit an individual land book proposal. So far, it has been possible to process three plots of land in one notary record and in one proposal to write it in the land book, and it will not be possible to do so again. Otherwise, there will be other shortcomings in practice, which can also be remedied over time. The bill is well-meaning, so we will also support it in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u29	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u30	Thank you for your word. Dear President, colleagues and colleagues, hello! Specially hailed Secretary of State with a co-worker. Today we are discussing the amendment to the Land Book Act, which we have tabled by the coalition MPs with the first-signed magi. Borut Saiovic. We can see that the proposal that we are considering today is the third attempt to amend the Land Book Act, which aims at informing and electronicising the land book. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the solutions and provisions of the proposed law on amendments to the Land Book Act are good; citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are, to a degree, citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia and in accordance with modern trends in the information and introduction of eGovernment. The solutions foreseen by the law and introduced and presented by the Magi. Saivica, who purposely sum up past introduced novels of the law and build them up with proposals that address the fears of the State Council regarding the loss of the individual’s ability to give legal relative form to his actions. The proposal for a law introduces a solution that allows a land-book proposal in electronic form to be drawn up or completed and sent to anyone or anyone who has a legal interest in achieving an entry into the land book. In considering the law on the home working body, an amendment was also adopted, allowing the applicant to directly submit a proposal for the incorporation of ownership rights in his favour in the order in which this proposal is tabled in the record before the court. We therefore have before us a proposal for a law that, according to the veto of the State Council and many debates, follows the spirit of the amendment of the law, which was tabled by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the parliamentary procedure in 2010, and has been upgraded by the proposals of the State Council and thus represents a rounded legislative whole that provides meaningful, effective and good solutions and represents the final step towards the process of informing the land book. The amendment tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party to the bill does not, unfortunately, follow this spirit of law. The informationisation of land-booking procedures is an appropriate solution, already foreseen by the 2007 law, from the time the Slovenian Democratic Party was in power. Today, with amendments to this information, they oppose or wish to maintain the written submission of land-book proposals to any court. One of the important effects the amendment foresees is the simplification and acceleration of cost reduction procedures for both the country and citizens. The amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 125 and Article 2 would eliminate these positive effects. With such proposals, the amendment of the law from the point of view of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia would deteriorate and we will not support the proposed amendment in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. We expect that the law, which introduces good and meaningful solutions and represents the last step of the process launched in 2007, will receive broad support between Members of the Parliament and Members of the National Assembly, and we will also support the proposed law in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, as it brings good solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u31	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u32	Members of the unaffiliated Solidarity Group will also support this bill, possibly for the introduction of a good saying that we regret that this law has not been adopted long ago, because if the comments and concerns that have been made and the amendments that have been proposed, some might have been supplemented and adopted in the previous adoption process, this law would now have been followed. It must be said that for one of the goals already years ago, the Government has set itself an orderly, more organised work of the courts at all and the Land Book Department in particular. It must also be acknowledged that, in relation to land-booking procedures, positive results have been recorded, that it is easier to access data, that the speed has changed dramatically, that is to say, it speaks to all these trials and is probably so encouraged by the good results that the Ministry of Justice has also wanted to complete this process, as has already been said today. The aim was to really inform procedures in order to regulate an informationised collection of documents in order to reduce administrative and other unnecessary procedures in land-booking processes, thereby reducing the end of the blankets in relation to the costs of the courts. Courts would also be burdened with ancillary works, with the need to note that judges are not involved in these land-booking processes, so that there is probably no way that this would help to make substantial progress in relation to backlogs in the courts. However, as we have said, we ourselves are convinced that things are going in the right direction, and that we are probably going, I hope that we are not too wrong, proposing especially to relieve the courts. And this relief of the courts went according to their proposal that these works had to be not only rationalised but also redistributed. And that is what became the target of criticism, and at the end of the veto and the failed re-adoption of the law, which was rejected by the veto. What has been disturbing in our parliamentary group has already been said in the previous procedure, we are now merely repeating, we ourselves believe that this postulation capacity has been overly distorted, too narrowed down to just certain eligible investors, so that the restriction on e-investment alone may have been too restrictive. We ourselves, and rightly so, have also supported some of the amendments proposed by the SDS Group at the time. Today, we see that some amendments are being repeated. If we were not afraid that this proposal by the SDS amendment would in fact undermine the construction of this law, we would support their proposal, because in some ways it introduces, if we could say so, all in one place, therefore, for eligible investors, in particular for natural persons, we would significantly simplify everything together. But if we accepted that, the marriage would probably break, it wouldn't be coherent anymore, and we couldn't accept it as such. This will be, as we will probably be taught again in the debate, the reason why we will not support the SDS amendment, otherwise we have been inclined to their basic idea. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the proposal for amendments and the addition of the Land Book Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Janez Kikelj.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u34	Dear President, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State! We will support the proposed amendment to the Land Book Act in the Social Democrats Group, although some of the solutions in this paper are moving away from the original objectives of land book regulation. A multi-annual process of adaptation and updating of land-booking procedures is being completed. The electronic investment of land-book proposals and other applications in land-booking procedures will also have an impact on the Court's rational functioning, which is the objective on the one hand, and on the other hand a shorter decision-making time in land-booking proceedings. The proposed regulation of the novel differs from that which was unfortunately rejected after the vote in the State Council, so that any natural or legal person may also submit a land policy proposal, which is a notary act, on his own behalf. As a representative of the applicant, he may also be a lawyer, a self-employed individual or an economic company which fulfils the conditions for the provision of real estate services, of course if he has participated in this business, and the State or municipal defences. The written roles of participants not represented by a lawyer, notary or state defence will be accepted by a single central depository. The solutions provided by this amendment to the Land Book Act take into account the concerns and opinions of the State Council and some other interested parties. Land Book Proposals may be drawn up or completed electronically by anyone or anyone who has a legal interest in obtaining an entry into the Land Book. In the Social Democrats Group, we want to see land-book procedures move faster and that the legal security of individuals in legal traffic with real estate will also be increased. Our Group of Members will support the proposed amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Jožef Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! The new land book law has had a beard for a long time. This is now the third attempt put forward by the coalition Members, before which was one attempt rejected by the State Council with a veto and very justified because it drastically restricted postulational rights, namely the ability of citizens to apply land-book entries. The law of SDS followed, which corrected all these shortcomings, but because it was an opposition law, you rejected it. You have tabled through the parliamentary group a new law which is an improvement that allows for the information and electronic management of the land book, but still in an interesting way and in a particular way restricts postulational capacity. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, in the SDS Group of Members, we will consistently represent the interests of the citizens, because with the land book, every citizen is tanged. And we do not accept the restriction that only one with a digital certificate or electronic signature can invest. This is a rather drastic restriction in modern times, and it must never be so drastic. We respect Slovenian citizens and regulation must be such that access to the land book is possible for everyone, as was the case at the time of Mary Teresa, so we will not allow our citizens to be insulted and underestimated. In fact, we represent exactly the same position as represented by the Council of Justice, which, at its hearing through Vesna Pavlič Pivk, a representative of the Council of Justice, warned that the current option, which would also eliminate local jurisdiction, would make it difficult to gather evidence of legal facts. ‘The representative of the Council of Justice says that the law departs from the fundamental principles of the land book, and reiterates the concern that the parties may have a greater difficulty in collecting evidence and proving the legal facts underlying the entry into the land book in the future. This directly indicated that the law to be adopted would be unconstitutional because it abolished the principle of equality before the law. And, ladies and gentlemen, from this place, on behalf of the Group of Members, I call on you not to force again against the anti-constitutional law, because exactly the same reservations to this law have also been made by the representatives of the Chamber of Commerce, and we agree with all these arguments in the SDS Group of Members. An unlimited post-election capacity must be given, and we agree with what the representative of the Chamber of Economics has stressed that every citizen should be talked about, any legal person who must have such a right comparable to the regulation of the European regime. European regulation should be proposed, not, as the representative of the Chamber of Commerce said, introducing unique arrangements. It was specifically pointed out here that in Austria it was ordered that notaries and lawyers should invest in electronic form and that everyone else could submit normally in a written court. And then the court turns this writing into an electronic form. With us, you do not want to give these rights to citizens, and we wonder why such a persistent monitoring of the interests of only certain features is, as you are all told, unconstitutional and unacceptable. And another thing is that they have also pointed out outside of politics – notations. Signs of the earth’s book have been available to all, and now such a solution is for notaries only. It expresses the interest of the LDS Group, and with this overall coalition, it is that it makes it possible to make a special profit, especially for notaries, lawyers, which, of course, in the SDS Group, we do not agree and we will only support the law if our amendments, which say that the proposer is entitled to submit a land book proposal to anyone who has a legal interest in making an entry into the land book, are adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u38	Thank you very much for your words, chairman. Honorable representative of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! As has already been said, for the third time in a short time, we have met with the amendment to the Land Book Act and, on the one hand, it is a shame that we have not already found a common language and have properly regulated this subject, as legislation has already envisaged. On the other hand, the new proposal, which is before us today, offers an improved and complementary text of the Act, which still follows the principle that procedures for users in the Land Book need to be simplified as much as possible, reduced and enhanced legal certainty in real estate transactions. At the same time, of course, we hope that such proceedings will also burden the work of the courts. Even in the Group of Members, we did have a few reservations to the first version of the law, to the second, of course, but the current arguments of the proponents and the ministry almost fully convinced us. The most open issues have certainly been raised in the past with regard to the right to submit Land Book proposals and we have proposed a three-year transitional period for the Ministry when adopting their amendment. We are therefore pleased that this supplement is not only taken into account, but individuals will also be able to make their own land-book proposals in court in the future not only during a three-year transitional period. More modern investment will also be possible, which will be cheaper or cheaper than before and at the same time faster, safer and more efficient. It should be pointed out that in the Group of Members, indeed – a new policy is the novel of the Law on the Land Book, which is the informationisation of all processes related to the decision-making on the registration of land documents collections, without reservation. As we have said many times before, we also agree in the parliamentary group with the Ministry of Justice's justification that the electronic submission of land-book proposals will allow citizens to do this matter much faster than they have done before. According to data from the Ministry, the individual entry into the land book lasts for more than a month and, under the new law, the procedure is to be reduced to four days, such an assessment being made. In the Parliamentary Group, we are particularly pleased with the fact that we have found a common language and have adopted an amendment on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, thus allowing the proposer to submit a proposal for the incorporation of property rights in his favour in the order in which this proposal is tabled in the record before the Court of Justice. In the course of the official hours, it shall be submitted to the Land Book Court, in the area of which the property covered by the proposal is situated, and to the Land Book Court, by the documents which are the basis for the application and by the Court of Justice. Let me remind you that the Council of State, on a government proposal for the Land Book Act, vetoed, but with solutions relating to the electronic submission of applications for entry into the Land Book, the State Council agreed, and opposed only the provisions under which only notaries, lawyers and lawyers were authorised to submit proposals. And this issue, or the problem of the novel that we are dealing with today, is being adequately addressed. Following a new proposal, each natural or legal person may submit a landscaping proposal on his or her behalf, provided that the digital certificate has a secure electronic signature and a secure electronic drawer and is included in the information system for secure electronic service in accordance with the rules governing electronic commerce in civil proceedings. This earlier amendment, submitted by SDS Members, was not properly regulated and was therefore rejected. Because he was flawed, not because he was opposition. But it really has to be said that, unfortunately, these two things have been connecting too many times lately. We have been able to come up with appropriate solutions in cooperation. Of course, there are still some open questions in this novel, such as why an individual is not allowed to make land-book proposals in any court, in order to eliminate this, so to speak, local jurisdiction, and not only in a court where property lies. In the parliamentary group, we hope that the debate on the amendments will also resolve these dilemmas. But we'll support the marriage for the most part.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u40	Your Honor! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group we thoroughly examined the latest version of the amendment to the Land Book Act. We have obtained quite a few expert opinions from lawyers, notaries and public workers working in Slovenian municipalities. The current legislative proposal has also received a number of comments, but it is true that the general public is far from united in order to get things right. Many solutions and proposals cross; some would upgrade things a little bit, make things even simpler. Others find the current solutions too rigorous. We can say that this is a very professional issue with many options for solutions that should be sought in the field of experience in this area. For this reason, we will give the Slovenian People's Party's Group this last version of the law an opportunity to prove itself in practice. What will soon be seen how a new marriage with the solutions involved will take place? Certain corrections are still possible in the future. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we welcome the basic objective of the law, which is the comprehensive informationisation of land-booking procedures, which reduces bureaucracy and paperwork, and will all be noticeably rationalised. Most importantly, the fundamental flaw contained in the previous proposal has been addressed, the one we rejected in the September vote, which, to put it simply, explicitly monopolized the submission of land-book proposals by notaries and lawyers, although there are still some qualified participants in our country who are fully capable of preparing documents for consideration or submission. However, those who know this area know that this work is not possible because there is a very large difference between the complexity of individual entries. The solution allowing the allocation of cases to the courts according to waiting types is somewhat unusual, given that the referees will be rewarded with more work. But since the waiting lines are already there, they'll probably stay. We hope that this human note, or human factor, will also be taken into account during the implementation of this law, where the effectiveness of the resolution of applications will not be rewarded with additional burdens. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, although the problem of incomplete land-book proposals, including incomplete land-booking documents, is likely to solve not only the informationisation of the procedure but the regulation of the time frame itself for the submission of applications for entry. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we particularly hope that more will be done at the time of the verification of the Land Book Charter and the application for entry into the Land Book, which has often been unduly delayed. We also propose to the competent ministry that, after one year of implementation of the law, it carry out an analysis of the comments and problems encountered in the proceedings and will only be seen in practice in the implementation of the law. Then you'll see what else can be fixed. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we agree with the initial opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly, so that many changes would make it better to adopt a completely new law on the Land Book and then, in the future, to optimise certain processes mainly in the investment and processing of land-books. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have decided to support the amendment of the Law on the Land Book before us in the belief that it will in fact bring more transparency and legal security to citizens and citizens in the field of the land or real estate market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u41	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2011. We move on to 40th and 55th. Since the amendment to Article 40 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 55, we will discuss it together. I am putting paragraphs 40 and 55 to the debate and the amendment of the SDS Group to both articles. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Vinko Gorenak. Mr. Petan called earlier. I can also file a report and have the machine decide. He has a word, as I said, Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u42	Thank you very much. Even the machine thinks the same as you. Look, I know what you've put into discussion, electronics and related matters, but it's very difficult to talk about just that, and I have to start with that. The representative of the LDS Group said earlier that we do not support electronics. Yeah, for God's sake, who started the electronics? We're in the previous term. You're just continuing the electronics. And that's the only smart and good point of this marriage. When we discussed this law at a December or November meeting, we also said that e-mailing and this part of the law are absolutely, and once again we absolutely support it. This law fell for some other reason. After all, this law, which you had in December, experienced veto and then fell into the National Assembly. But let's skip the whole story, and let's skip the fact that you rejected one of our marriages because it was written by the opposition, not because it would be bad. And let's get to electronics. Look, the change between this version and that version you had on your agenda in November is actually just two. The first is that, in addition to lawyers and notaries for land-book matters, you also authorized real estate agents. Lawyers know they have a lot of money anyway. Notaries don't have money problems, actually. Not real estate agents. Look at the property. So you put things back where the money is already pretty much. You also allow this electronics access, which is a problem for me, access for those who have so-called secure mail. Who's got the safe mail? The one with the money, the one with the computer skills. You know, older people and especially those in rural areas where they don't even have Internet, many people don't even know what the Internet is, but they belong in the category of those 300,000 people who have to do land-booking things – we cut them off. It is said that we are now allowing a better situation in the field of electronics only to those categories that have money. Some poor guy who lives in the countryside doesn't even have a computer or the Internet – by the way, even around Nova Gorica is so, they don't have water, they told me last time, but that's not our topic – and we hit the pocket. And that's unfair of the coalition. That's why we're putting in these two amendments. And there's one more thing. Look what the Council of Justice has said. I usually have a problem with the Council of Justice because I often think it's a coalition draw. But this time the Council of Justice actually surprises me with its view of this. The Council of Justice says that they do not fully support the law and point out exactly that. That's exactly what they're alerting us to. For the first time local competence, they point out, for the second time, that the issue departs from the fundamental principles of the Land Book already in force by Mary Teresa and point out this electronicity and say that electronics should remain in the transitional and final provisions so written that transitional and final provisions will not be extinct within one year, but that this will be a permanent option. This permanent option, however, is that if an individual wants to, they say that there are 5 or 6 % of them, that an individual can, if he wants to, come to court with documents and cases. It is said that he does not have to go to a lawyer, that he does not have to go to a notary and that it is not necessary to go to a real estate agency and that he does not even have to have a computer and a secure mail. The judiciary, which is very often, I don't know, reacts quite rigidly, this time reminds us of exactly what we are pointing out. It points out that it is imperative to allow, not only for one year or as stated in the transitional provisions, but that individuals who do not use computers should be allowed to use the Court as a direct option. In fact, at the meeting of the Committee, the Chamber of Commerce also drew attention to the exact same issue in relation to this electronicity. They say that the Slovenian regime is unique – the one proposed. They even point to so-called markings. We now take the markings electronically to the notaries. Only notaries will be able to do so in a life of salvation, well known, perhaps. And no one else. And look, they've warned us that they've combed all of Europe, and it's not in Europe. Austria has a model that is somewhat similar to ours, but Austria also has a lawyer and a notary, but a permanent possibility of physically transferring documents to the court and nothing else. And we're obviously cutting off this permanent option and we're getting it under the electronics company. The Chamber of Commerce also warned us that such a situation was not right. I don't know, I don't know, there's no reason to support the law either, because this law really works again in terms of electronicity. But well, I'm already used to monopolies, but the coalition cares about these monopolies in the form of lawyers, notaries, now real estate and so on, and that's sad, so my support won't. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u44	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! I will support both amendments to Articles 40 and 55, to begin with. But I'll tell you why. If we look at this marriage as a whole, I can say it's typical, but really typical, typical of this ruling coalition and this government. It is typical of monopolistic, lobbyistic, cecho-oriented law. And that is also, at least that is how I explain myself and thus show the latest events, the only purpose of this law; the first one that was, now the matter has changed a little bit, but the first one why the applicable law was cast: because it is a matter of pleasing the lobbyists, of monopolizing. This is said to have occurred since the law, when all citizens were able to make changes to the land book, only lawyers and notaries could do so. It was that marriage, the first one to experience, thank God, the fate of rejection. What does that mean? This means that citizens and citizens who have or have this knowledge to carry out this business will no longer be able to do so, of course, but only through lawyers and notaries. But you know that when these people — and nothing bad about them — you open the door, you pay, 200, 300 euros. That's the way it is. That's the way it is. It's a cechy thing, and otherwise it can't be. I don't tell these people anything, but I'm reading to the one who went to change this marriage, and that's the government, and those who supported it. I read to those, not the notaries and the lawyers! They just accepted it. Why wouldn't they? But the one who went to change it has all the butter on his head! This amendment to Article 40 is very extensive and has several items: e-introduction of letters, electronic service, written service of writings, electronic file management, transcription of land-booking procedures and so on. This is all written; otherwise, it does not mean that what is in this marriage is bad. No, we said that Good, electronics, informing this process is okay, we support it, just why in this way?Oh, my God! [[...]] This can result in, such as the law, that only notaries, lawyers and real estate agencies are qualified to do this work. And, of course, they charge for it. Normally, they won't work for free. But whoever has this knowledge and has the tools, and in Slovenia there are more and more of these people, because, after all, we are, I don't know, a learning society, if you want us to, as often as we do, we have so many students, and now we're putting it all in the basket that these people don't know, they don't have any knowledge. Yes, then it is necessary to ask ourselves what schools we have so that they do not teach them anything, that they would not even be able to supply their own enrollment! Ask yourself what schools we have then, if you now make it clear that these people can't do this, different things, except – this is another thing that I've already said at the beginning – that you give certain lobbying all the rights to "pull" money. Now you decide whether it's first or second or both. There can be no other reason. In the SDS we represent this position that in Slovenia there are 10,000, 100,000 citizens who are able to do this, but not only – forgive me, I do not know how many lawyers are – 100 or 200 or 300 lawyers, but there are 100 notaries and I do not know how many real estate agents; but there are not two thousand altogether. All together, if we add it up, there aren't 2,000 people who would write it down. In Slovenia, there are some 100,000 people who are capable of doing this, and a young generation growing up with computers is one who can do it and those who are hundreds of thousands. Hundreds of thousands! And there are more and more people coming from schools who know that. In the elderly, it's a little harder, but the younger ones know it. And we stop these people. It is not understandable that we went to correct the law that gave it to people, and now we cut it. Now we're giving this to one lobby, something to do. But once again, I don't see anything about it, they're just going to take what they get; I'm going to tell those who do this, who are going to propose such things. The fact is, once again, we represent the interests of citizens, what is good for them and what is cheap. This is very important at this point; every cent is important in these difficult times if people can save it because life is difficult, but we will not now discuss why someone has more responsibility. We are in favour of informing, because, last of all, this started six years ago, we are also in favour of local competence. And last but not least, what has been mentioned today; if such a system has been in place since the time of Mary Teresa — why do we now undermine it? Why are we undermining this system? This has been the case since the time of Mary Teresa, and now we are remodeling and giving only to some of the strict features of this right! But at that time there were not so many people who had knowledge, but there were no computers at that time, but there was another knowledge that was necessary; and there was not as much knowledge as there was today among the people who could do so, but there was at that time. And now we're breaking something. I won't be here! And I don't know why it's not possible, if everything is in electronic form – that's okay, no one would mind – that someone who wants an entry into the land book brings a written form. Ladies and gentlemen, in the National Assembly, we also have an electronic network of the National Assembly – yes, why do we get paper? Because this proved to be probably a good thing and it's a combination. If you have paper, you can put it very easily in electronic form. That's what we stand for! And just in article 40, one of the items is the written service of letters, then the management of the electronic file, is the modern electronic form – it turns into an electronic form. I don't understand why you're so supportive of some things. I will not now mention what has already happened during this term, which we have all supported. We've said this a lot. At this point, I'm not gonna say it again, but I'm gonna stick with it. And I don't know why it's necessary to monopolize, anyway, the monopolies want to create themselves, but we make them through the law. It's just incomprehensible! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have already tabled this law several times, allowing citizens and citizens who possess this knowledge to do so and to do so because it is much cheaper for citizens and citizens to do so. And I don't know why we should be putting someone's job in order to be kind to them. Then the matter turns out to be more important if they're species. Yeah, that's very important, everybody's waiting in line! But, ladies and gentlemen, why is that necessary? We are at a time when time is precious, and it is still precious, in which case it is even expensive. And to someone who already has a lot of money, we're going to give more money and someone who's already in trouble to survive from month to month, we're going to take something away from him because things with the land book have to be regulated because it's property. We're gonna take a little bit more away or maybe not that small, so we'll know each other. In the Slovenian Democratic Party and I personally oppose such work, and we want those citizens and citizens who are able to do it themselves to do it and come through much cheaper, so I will support the amendment to Articles 40 and 55, because it takes on this particular intention and preserves the things that have been done since the time of Mary Teresa and in the time of Mary Teresa has been very well arranged, in the case of the book of land already, something else. So you don't have to break everything that has historical patina. This case is not necessary. In addition, this is the solution that you are proposing – well, I will believe what I have read that we are unique in Europe. Being unique somewhere is very problematic, but we already have a very rich experience when we wanted to be unique. Very problematic experience. I don't know why we'd try to find hot water again. I don't think you need it. That's why I support these two amendments. If these two amendments are adopted, then I will also support the law, otherwise I will strongly oppose this law, which will further impoverish citizens and citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Borut Saiovic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u46	I could only say, "Holy Demagogic Forgiveness: for what a man hears after he has explained ten times is simply a great thing." Let's do it in one order at a time. Apparently, some of the reminders have been written since December when they rejected the first draft, which I admit was not the best, and this is significantly better, and therefore I gladly signed on to the top. There will be no misunderstanding: of course, I do not agree with the amendments, because I think that the basic law is already good enough. The first observation is that the law is unconstitutional because it makes a difference between people: some have computers, others do not have computers. Then the matter must be brought to absurdity. Some of those who go to court to do so also have bus transport options and others do not. The constitutional dispute must then be brought about, in order to ensure bus transport for all. Or, let's say, the law is unconstitutional because some people have cars, others don't have cars. Then the next absurd – Rudolf, you spoke, I listened to you, you listen to me too. The next absurdity that everyone doesn't have that knowledge. Then it is right in this country that everyone should be allowed to do open-heart surgery, because if some people don't know it, others know it - then it is constitutional discrimination. Some have trained outpatients for this, others do not — then the matter is constitutionally controversial and needs to be thrown down. Some like to imitate the times of Mary Teresa. I'll follow the logic of absurdity even further. I once heard a kind joke that all the old Slavs were extinct; and that's true, they are. They are — because they didn't have cell phones. However, the truth is very different: under this law, once again, I stress that all have the opportunity to regulate the land register if they have only the relevant charter: some in notaries, others in real estate agencies, which are, of course, significantly higher, and those in real estate agencies, in a purely dignified, legal way, can also be regulated by the lawyers of economic society and by others. And what is most important – I will repeat it 57 times today if necessary – :anyone of us who has knowledge can arrange it as a natural person and that is essential. It can be arranged electronically, but in one place, in Ljubljana in a district court, also in a physical way. Some who have created them in this country are now repeatedly warming them up, but I must say that as a proponent, I have received a written amendment of dissatisfaction on the part of the lobby. The interiors – if any, they were dissatisfied with this proposed solution. So they can't copy something and send it forward all day, and for everything, there's no money. That was the argument of some lobby that the proponents were supposed to protect me. My lady told me that if there were 50, 60 clients or one client with 50 identical suggestions that she would deal with it all day for some change! That they don't want us to put this burden on the courts. For the courts, however, we know that they are already too busy, and this story certainly also burdens the courts, but it simply increases efficiency and moves forward. But I'll be happy to come by again, not many times, if necessary, only to reject, of course, what repeatedly repeats itself as a lie.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u47	I'll make an immediate application, Dr. Gorenak. First, Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, made a statement, then I will file a report.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u48	Thank you very much, Mr. President. It may not be too much to repeat some of the things that, when the government proposal was in the procedure, we have repeatedly presented and, it seems, not quite clear enough. Land-booking procedures are intended to execute land-book entry. This land register entry is so important because it acquires property rights on real estate. This is good to have before your eyes, because only by concluding a contract on the purchase of land, and only by paying this amount, and only by certifying the signed contract, will all the signatures on the contract, thus making the buyer not yet the owner. The person became owner when he was legally registered in the Land Book. This is the fundamental property of the entries in the land book. However, entry into the land book is only possible on the basis of a land book permit. This is a special phrase in which the one who gives the property tells the one who acquires the property to allow ownership in the land book to be recorded in his name. And why did this land permit it so important, and so do I expose it? Because he has to be notary. There's no other way he's involved. That's the law. This is the fundamental concept of our legal order. Inside this land book permit to verify. Check the signatures. Sometimes it is necessary to conclude this permit in the form of a notary record and only such a certified and properly equipped removal of the land licence may be the basis for any land book proposal. And we are talking a lot about land-book proposals today. Because it is a debate, as it is no more than many times, about who should be the one to submit such a land policy proposal. Of course, all of this must be borne in mind because more than 95% of the land book proposals have already been tabled on the basis of land-book permits involving notaries, which means that 95 % of the buyers or new owners have already arrived and so on. The notariat has this important task because it is a service of public interest. There's someone in there. It is inside, if I say slightly more graphicly, already half the state authority, because the constitutional position is different and it also responds differently than any private one. I don't know if that's right. As it is already a requirement that 95% of all applications go over notary hands, more than half, and more than half of all land-book proposals are already submitted by notaries. The new arrangement, which will in fact be very similar to what the Government has already proposed in December, will of course mean that these registration services and thus the acquisition of property rights on the property of the customer will mean greater legal certainty, since there will not be an intermediate time between the time of conclusion of the contract, the confirmation of signatures, the certification of the land register and later the entry into the land book, but that time will be reduced to a minimum, since the party will be able to do so immediately and submit a book proposal for which, by the way, I do not know that many citizens would enjoy this because it is a very accurate and scrupulous fulfilment of the exact form with a whole range of data. And if that information is incorrect, the court shall reject the application and request a supplement or not reject it, but return it, request a supplement and, if there is no supplement, reject it. This service will also be faster for citizens because it allows them to do everything in one place. When they come to the notary to confirm their signature, the whole service can be completed there — if they so choose. If they choose to do so, it will be cheaper for them, because after the adoption of this law, as we have already said on several occasions, the Minister will change the notary rate to adjust the total amount of payment that the parties have to pay for the book in the land, including the court fee and the notary fee, and this amount will be lower in all cases than what they pay today if the land book proposal is written at home. It's important to say that. Of course, the main point of today's debate should be that an important difference has been made on the fact that today it is not necessary for everything to end with a notary. Following this proposal, which is on the table today, it is possible for a person to decide and go home and write his own land book proposal if he so wishes. If that's what he wants. This option is open, timeless and simply does not hold that access to a court is limited to anyone and that post-location capacity, i.e. the ability to submit a land-book proposal, is limited in such a way that those who want to do so alone cannot do so. This simply does not hold up, they will be able to do it themselves from home by electronic means if they want. If they want to do this physically, they will have to do it with paper, but they will have to go to the local competent court, where they will turn this role into an electronic form and also a document, if the parties want it, and they will accept it as a storage facility. The postulational capacity is not limited by the proposal of the law you have, ladies and gentlemen, today before you. In the presentation of opinions, it was feared that a time hole should be removed, which occurs during the fulfilment of the conditions for entry and entry into the land book itself, as this leads to legal uncertainty or opens up opportunities for abuse. That's right. That's right, this time delay can be very dangerous. This may involve speculative double sales and similar abuses or frauds of another kind, and this is one of the added values of this system that is ahead of you today. Indeed, this time frame, this time gap between the fulfilment of the conditions and the entry proposal itself, is in fact minimal. If the client doesn't want a delay, there's no delay. The system is set up in such a way that, as soon as the conditions are met, the proposal for a book are met and the order of the order is safeguarded and the room for malversion is thus closed and abolished. That's how much fear is. The position of the Council of Justice was highlighted, which was supposed to be very problematic, but it must be said that at the meeting of the Committee it was clearly stated that the Council of Justice, while supporting the law, did not fully. And he highlighted those points which were particularly problematic, in particular the possibility mentioned at the time of the meeting of the Committee, which was still temporary, namely that the parties themselves could submit a physical proposal to the Court of Justice, since that period was then limited to one year. It was later adopted on the amendment committee, where this arrangement was transformed from transitional provisions, which was time-limited, into permanent arrangements. Therefore, all citizens who wish to do so, if they consider it to be more favourable for them, will be able to travel to the court, submit a paper land policy proposal there, also submit documents that are the basis for the entry, the court official will turn it into an electronic form and thus the citizen will be able to make a physical application on the spot. Therefore, the basis of the reasoning expressed by the Council of Justice has been removed. The representative of the Council of Justice also made this clear at the meeting of the Committee. This is why it is not good that we are having a debate today, as if this problem is still present. With all this, I would like to say that this proposal, which is in fact in the vast majority of the content that the Government has already proposed and complemented with these additions which are expanding post-election capacity, is in the interest of citizens. I don't know if it's good to scare citizens into building up some lobby. These lobbies are not lobbies, these are the bodies envisaged by the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and the Government seems justified to carry out those tasks for which they are intended; in particular, if this is cheaper for citizens. And this, in the case of this law, is cheaper, faster and more legally safe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u49	Thank you very much. I'm asking you to sign up. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u50	Thank you very much. There is still a clear limit to the direct postulational capacity of Slovenian citizens. The same, those that enable each capable citizen to enter independently. I still argue, and this is not only my claim, but this is also my statement by the Chamber of Commerce that Slovenians are sufficiently competent, sufficiently educated and skilled and such a restriction consequently reduces technically, I would say, the administrative capacity of the Slovenians reduces their ability to think innovatively, which is bad. Neither the government nor the government party should be able to afford it. Today, the Secretary of State was much more cautious when he responded to the comments of Members and Members' groups than the Committee on Internal Policy last time. For the last time, after the appearance of the representative of the Council of Justice, former Judge Gerbac of the Chamber of Commerce and us, some Members, simply said that we had not read the law and we do not know what it says. I then assessed this as interference with the independent judiciary, because of the opinion of the Council of Justice, which spoke of the four segments, to say that they did not read the law there, of course, is interference. I'm telling you, you've been doing this a little differently today. You've never done this again. However, it is not acceptable for me to see what some discussers of government said today when we accept it and see what results it brings. No! No! If there's anything that's still on the table. The Council of Justice says that the derogation from local jurisdiction departs from the fundamental principles of the Land Book, and "The Council of Justice expresses concern that the parties may have a greater difficulty in collecting evidence and proving legal facts in the future." And that's equality before the law. And it departs from equality before the law. Equality before the law is a constitutional principle. And this constitutional principle, I am sure, will be respected by the Constitutional Court, no matter what composition it will take. Now I ask myself, does that mean such an opinion, "now we're going to do it, then we're going to go over these changes with proposals," that Mr. Thaler will be doing these amendments in the future? We see that he immediately agreed to make amendments and proposals for some. You are making room for these joint officials to be – not least he is still a member of one of the parties, but he represented the entire coalition there in the European Parliament – whether you are doing this in order to satisfy these lobbying skills, or whether you have another lobbyist here, someone else who will come and say how we need to change something now. Why don't we change or make it as it was – I mean, as it was, as it was right, as it was elsewhere in Europe. Why does the Chamber of Commerce, with experience from Europe, have to tell us that we are working for the refugees, that you are working for the refugees? Why do you work in the European Union? In order for some to be able to serve on this, citizens will no longer be equal and equal before the law. That's a bad solution. And stubborn insistence on this through the three novels of the law is in fact also the desire of the ruling coalition to paralyze the state, to paralyze its citizens in relation to the state. This is the gradual introduction of the lawlessness of an average citizen. I think that three failed marriage proposals, one veto of the Council of State, the opinion of the Chamber of Commerce, the opinion of the Council of Justice are enough for you to finally overlook? Also in relation to the average citizen. Therefore, once again, it seems wise for you to consider how many times you will insist that you do not just wave and reject what the Council of Justice has warned the Chamber of Commerce, which has warned the opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u52	Thank you very much. Metamorphosis, what a lovely thing this is, Mr. Saiovic. The larvae produce a butterfly. It's really nice to connect. I used to watch you very well when you were talking. You supported the marriage in November, now you're saying it was a bad marriage, that you filed a new one. That's really nice! Mr Secretary of State, I've heard some other explanation, you're talking today about the notary being the one who cares about the legality of the whole thing, that it's okay. Is that right? Yes, Mr. Leprechaun, who had Orion over – did not. At that time, however, all of us were persuaded, or convinced, that it was only for the procedure and not for the content. That was the case, but now once a butterfly — larvae, LDS — really, we see it all. All right, let's do it. Content. Content Is Important — Why? The content is important because you talk about how it will be cheaper to make it better and so on. See why Mr. Jankovic's army of lawyers or someone else doesn't have jurisdiction? No congregation has the authority to rule. Why? Employees have people who can do that. No, they can't by law. Why a number of economic operators – whether you imagine some others – do not; not the congregation through the legal system – leave it. [[...]] The defense has to set up – no, no, it doesn't. Municipality as a municipality, I don't know, the legal service of the municipality Ljubljana, Maribor or Tržič, because it doesn't matter which. I assume you have a lawyer, he can do that. Now take this thing away from him. Why? To pay for a notary lawyer. That's why. See, that's a problem. And when you talk about all the other stuff. The 5% people who don't have computers - I don't think they'll ever have them! Well, there are people among us who can't handle computers, and they're probably younger than me, than you are, than anyone else. They don't know. Don't force them, don't force them to get it, or they'll have to pay x money. It's not right in any way. You know, whether or not this law is constitutional or unconstitutional, it is up to the Constitutional Court to decide. On May 5, 2009, you taught me how to respect the Constitutional Court until the President of the Government fixed us, and he said, "Come on, be quiet." Well, it's still in the lobby. It doesn't make sense to talk about it, because everybody knows it! I don't know if you have any other Slovenian citizens who don't know what it is, except those who are members. It's normal. The notaries wrote to me. They wrote to me. They wanted to come to the interview. But I made it very clear that I didn't. Thank you, I don't need you! You can write whatever you want. And they wrote; they wrote that they had not enough money. That's what they wrote! They wrote and told me the same thing that you give us too little money. Makes sense. Makes sense. They want more because it's too small. Nothing is necessary if you or I or many others know how to put it themselves, but we are on it anyway for the next year and a half, from the point of view of the lobby – I will really slowly throw the rifle into the corn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u53	Thank you very much. As a proponent, he has the word mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u54	Thank you very much. It's just as much fun on such a beautiful day in Parliament. And now I'm going to read twice the same thing, maybe it's just a lie. In addition to notaries, the land register proposal will also be open to natural or legal persons on their behalf, lawyers, companies that meet the conditions for the provision of real estate services and public or municipal law as a representative of the applicant and then all natural persons. And that's a simple fact. Look, this service will cost a few euros to the notary, and you've seen in the media the tariffs and the amounts of the charge of up to 20,000 euros, and then what's next. It is simply about real estate and such important matters as the purchase of a parcel, the purchase of an apartment, the purchase of a house, things that are incomparable, because people, our citizens need mainly flawless legal services and legal certainty in these matters. And that's what this story is about. This will obviously have to be repeated again today. We are convinced that the matter is in the best interests of citizens and citizens and their legal security. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The word is "Cvetka Zalokar Orazem," please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear colleagues and colleagues! I must say that among those coalition Members, I opposed the original law proposed by the Ministry of Justice at all stages. I have had many concerns, and I must say that many of these concerns have been corrected or amended in this law, which was later tabled by a group of Members and is being addressed today, in fact, corrected. I must say that the arguments I hear from the SDS today are obviously such that they still have the same paper before them today as they were a month and a half ago, when, including me, we challenged the original amendment of the Land Book Act. I must say here that I regret that I cannot agree with them, because the municipalities are now given the opportunity to carry out the electronic submission of land-book proposals in a consistent manner. This is the legal person referred to in the first point of Article 3 and the municipalities shall have a complete freeway after that, clearly in electronic form. Another thing that is happening today — and for this part, it seems good to me that we have corrected it. This also opens up to real estate agencies, if we say so to businesses, individuals, companies that will also be able to invest. And these are two novelties that I think have opened up enormously, and in fact we have achieved what was also a personal reason for me to oppose the law in its original form. At the last point, this is a possibility for an individual to be able to invest himself, and we stayed, if I say so, halfway. If you look closely at point 11 of this 125.a., which says that the applicant can submit a proposal for a book on property rights to his benefit also on the record in court, this means exactly that form when you can go to court as a citizen, and everything is fine here. Where we have been separated and where I still have concerns, there are two limitations that have been given and which, in my opinion, have been caused, are partly less accessibility to this service; for this is limited to two matters - that this can only be done in person and that this can only be done in the court of that area where the property lies. In short, there are two limitations that I personally disagreed with and we need to be correct here. Up to here, all things are actually close, the only thing we have done now has somehow limited citizens the possibility that they will have to go in person and not with the possibility of using the authorities and that they will have to go where the property lies. Not like the law in the cell is set — and I must say that I feel it. The law is imposed so that the local jurisdiction is actually deleted, but at this point, you are applying it to a new level so that we may prevent citizens from having more friendly access to it so that they can invest themselves. I must say, colleagues from the SDS; I have also spoken to the representatives of the Economic Chamber in these days – I am not a member of the Internal Policy Committee myself, I have not cooperated. And that's the point, the only other point where there is opposition and dissatisfaction of representatives. So what you were talking about today is being warned by the Chamber of Commerce – I was in contact with them today and asked what is still an issue. That's an insult. But I'm sorry that we haven't done this in the last week when we've been trying to talk just before today, so that we can fix this, that we haven't been able to do it, because we would really do something more civil-friendly then. We've only limited them here in part. However, it is also necessary to say this, previously said, and it is evident that you have old instructions that this takes only a limited period. We have also deleted this limited period and it is gone. This possibility of citizens being able to invest on their own in court is now unlimited and will last forever. So I can say, in a way, it was good, and I'm actually glad that we rejected a law such as it was originally, because we have prepared or are ready for a better case now. The thoughts of the Council of Justice confused me, too. I must say, the Council of Justice is an organ we respect. Under it is signed by Dr. Miro Cerar. I took these things seriously. But I have to be honest with you this way: concerns are meaningful and they are, as they say, serious questions. But unfortunately, a large part of these concerns are linked to the concept of the law, which was set up years ago. We have – and I am also concerned in some way, I have told the proponents on several occasions – we have decided then to invest fully or only electronically. I don't know. I don't know. But it is something that also raises concerns and raises certain doubts, and I think the representatives of the Council of Justice have said that. There are countries, I said at the time of the first law that, let's say in Austria, this thing has been running parallel for ten years because the simplicity of this point is conservative. We only went in electronic form. I hope we don't get a headache. And precisely because it is purely electronic, we must be so much more careful about what we do that this form would not be discriminatory, that some citizens would not have this option. And that is why it seems to me now that we have opened up the possibility that everyone can also invest in the courts themselves, that we are part of these concerns, with severe pain, but we have yet to resolve. The same applies to the abolition of local jurisdiction and the preservation of these instruments. Thus, at these points, the Council of Justice's warning is relevant, it makes sense, but, of course, I also wonder whether it is still possible for this matter to be returned, given what designs were adopted in the original law. Maybe this option has been given, maybe not, I'm not sufficiently legally aware of these things, but of course this concern remains and probably will be some time like a Damocles sword also hanging over all those who went into such a, I'll say, a fairly up-to-date version, which in some ways can also sometimes be problematic and controversial at some point.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u57	Thank you very much. Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u58	Thank you so much for saying that. At the outset, I think it may be a bit procedural, but I do recall that today's amendment to the Land Book Act has the code EPA 1491/V because I think that most of the previous debaters did not know, and the comments of the Council of Justice mostly refer to other novels. It is true that the Council of Justice can give an opinion on the proposals put forward and that, in the meantime, the things that happen on the working body do not know and cannot be defined. I think that as many dilemmas as have been raised by the Council of Justice in the current version of the law as has been confirmed on the labour market are not. Some, as has already been said, in fact some stem from the legislation currently in force, even colleague Gorenak boasted with it that even now in the courts there was no complete document, that there was already a possibility that everyone, so to speak, had raised their papers in court, that people were also doing mass, or a little less mass, or whatever; complete collections of documents are no longer in court now, can ever be found, but this is not a rule, formerly an exception that confirms it. The representatives of the Slovenian People's Party's Group were those who said that the current version of the law was so improved and good enough to give it an opportunity. I understand that colleague Jerovšek heard the wrong statement and attributed this statement to one of the coalition's parliamentary groups. In this light, however, his talk about the limitation of postulationary or professional ability seems somewhat paradoxical to me, but my colleague Jerovšek tells us something like this, but at the same time he does what he does or does what he does not. What I've heard, however, is this social demagogy that I have heard from my colleague Petan; besides the fact that the law obviously does not say what he was told to write, that, as it was said, older people who have to watch every cent and have no internet and can no longer physically invest in court – this is not true, and later interlocutors have also rejected it. But the fact that there are 100,000 young people in this country who have, say, the knowledge that they have electronic signatures and could do so, and that they should not, of course, do so, because electronic signatures are allowed to do so. What's most wrong with this thesis is that any of these 100,000 young people who are educated have electronic signatures, they have knowledge, they have money to buy real estate, they have a reason to go to the land book, that's the bigger problem. And the fact that someone who has anything to do with the land book, so to speak, is a poor guy who can't afford a few euros for this or that thing, or a court fee. That's absurd. Whoever has a reason to go to the land book isn't poor. It's the poor one who has nothing! There is no reason for him to go to the land book without booking, not knowing maintenance rights, or just shopping. Those of the 100,000 young people who buy or buy don't buy with their money, but with borrowed money from banks, with mortgage credit, and those who lend us that money, of course, have a reason to secure it well, so to speak, an investment. How he does so — with the help of a notary, an authority, and so on. Even if I wanted my property, which I bought with a mortgage, to register and arrange these things myself, my lender wouldn't let me do it, he arranged all the notaries himself, he just told me how much more I would have to pay for it every month. And I, of course, at such a state in the real estate market as it is, in such a real estate structure, in such a structure of owners, at such prices, in such a balloon I could not help but say that, well, I will only pay a few more euros a month for the next 25 years – what else should this be a problem. In short, whoever has a reason goes to the land book, he's not a poor guy. Pika. If you want, the Minister of Social Affairs is now sitting in the Chamber, and we have slowly introduced this logic into the law on eligibility to receive public funds. However, as for the amendment before us, which we are discussing, and where colleague Jerovšek has mentioned, after recklessly, former MEP Thaler and has said that he represents all our parties in the European Parliament, he will not hold back. He was a member of one international, including another MEP, such as the Austrian Strasser, a member of the people's international, that is to say, you are in it; it is said that he probably represented you. It is said that this corruption is probably somewhat independent of where, in which the party is sitting, and that it is actually linked to specific persons. However, it cannot be generalized as it was said in the debate. As I say, I will support this law. It is better than all the suggestions that have so far come to this topic in the National Assembly., I believe it is one that will endure not only some trial period, but longer. Perhaps we will also talk about him as some do about Mary Teresa with fine words today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u59	Thank you very much. I'm asking, does anyone else want to discuss Articles 40 and 55 and Amendments? I don't see the desire anymore, so I'm closing the debate on the amendments. They will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today, in the framework of the half-hour vote, after the end of the 9th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, this is a second-hand proposal for a law on employment and the work of foreigners. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. To further explain the proposal, I give the floor to Minister Ivan Svetlik. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u60	Mr Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! The proposal for a law on employment and the work of foreigners contains a substantive summary of the current arrangements for the employment and work of foreigners, with some significant innovations. The need to amend the current legislation on employment and work of foreigners has already been demonstrated by the end of 2008 when third-country nationals have started mass-establishing companies with limited liability with a view to obtaining work permits and residence permits. On the basis of the documents obtained, these foreigners went, directly or indirectly, to other countries of the Schengen area without serious purpose of work or residence in the Republic of Slovenia. The economic crisis, particularly in construction, has also shown other major shortcomings in the current legislation on the protection and enjoyment of rights for migrant workers, the abuse of employers in the procedures for issuing work permits and the protection of the domestic labour market. The proposed amendments are therefore needed primarily to improve the law in terms of preventing abuse in the issuance of work permits, to protect the labour market, to strengthen the legal safety of migrant workers, to establish a legal basis for the issue of a sub-legislative regulation on the accommodation of foreigners and to harmonise the law with European Union law. The main news brought by this law is as follows. Firstly, stricter conditions are proposed for granting a work permit to the representative of the company. The newly established company, which appoints a foreign representative, will have to show the ownership or rental of business premises and investments in Slovenia of EUR 30 000 for the issue of a work permit. Provided that ownership or rental of premises is demonstrated, the fictitious addresses of employers and the problems of the various inspection bodies will be removed in cases where employers have not been registered. Secondly, the legal basis for issuing a sub-law or regulation on minimum housing and hygiene standards for foreign workers is given. Thirdly, in order to strengthen the protection of the rights of foreigners who are employed or working in Slovenia, easier conditions are proposed for obtaining a personal permit, a licence with three years in force. A personal work permit valid for three years will be available to a foreigner with at least vocational education or a national professional qualification acquired in the Republic of Slovenia after at least 20 months of continuous employment with any employer in the Republic of Slovenia. A narrower family member who has a permanent residence permit will be able to obtain a personal work permit for three years immediately. Fourthly, new categories of foreigners have been added who have free access to the Slovenian labour market already on the basis of their status and will therefore no longer be granted a personal work permit. These are close family members of the Slovenian citizen, foreigners of the Slovenian family to the third generation, foreigners who have a permanent residence permit, and refugees and foreigners who have long-term residence status in another Member State after one year in Slovenia. This removes administrative procedures and reduces administrative burdens for employers and foreigners. Fifth. A novelty has been added which, on the one hand, brings greater protection and security to foreigners and, on the other hand, reinforces the conditions for the extension of the work permit. The proposed law will also check whether the employer has proposed the calculation of the tax deduction for income from the employment relationship or payment sheet and to settle the taxes and contributions from the employment and work force. It is also proposed to abolish seasonal work in catering and tourism and seasonal work in construction. The Government has already adopted measures to protect the Slovenian labour market by a regulation on restrictions and prohibitions on the employment and work of foreigners in June 2009 also by prohibiting the seasonal employment of foreigners in construction and in catering and tourism. This prevented employment without checking whether the employment records of the relevant home or the unemployed are equivalent to those of the employment agency. Two Directives are partially transposed into the law, namely the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council on minimum standards for sanctions and measures against employers of illegally staying third-country nationals and the Council Directive on conditions for the entry and residence of third-country nationals for the purposes of highly qualified employment. This is the so-called Blue Card to be issued by an administrative unit based on the opinion of the Employment Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u61	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons Committee considered the law as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report, I give the floor to the President, Dr Andrei Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u62	Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, colleagues and colleagues, hello again! At its 28th meeting, the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons considered the proposal for a law on employment and work of foreigners submitted by the Government for consideration and adoption following a regular procedure. The amendments were tabled by SD, Ares, DeSUS and LDS, the SDS Group of Members and the SLS Group of Members. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which also made specific comments on the draft law. The opinion of the Commission of the State Council for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons, which supported the proposal of the law, was also forwarded and submitted a concrete proposal for an amendment to Article 5 as well as the comments and views of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which also presented its proposals at the meeting of the Committee, which were summarised in the amendments tabled by the SLS and SDS groups. In the introductory explanation of the articles, the representative of the proposer, Minister Svetlik, briefly presented the fundamental reasons for the adoption of the bill and, in particular, its main solution. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service presented their written opinion and said that extensive comments had been made on the proposal of the law, which had been largely taken into account by the amendments tabled by the coalition groups. In the debate on individual articles and amendments tabled, the members and members of the Committee and the invited attention paid to the proposed solutions to the draft law relating to the application of the law, the application of the start of the service and the obligations of the foreign employer, self-employment and conditions for the authorisation of employment. The discussion drew attention to the provisions of the draft law, which was also pointed out in its written opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service in order to prejudge the adoption of certain laws, namely, the Small Work Act, which should not be correct or admissible. In its written and oral position, the Ministry considered that such a position was not consistent, since similar provisions also contained a proposal for a law on the prevention of work and employment in black and the law on pension and disability insurance, which had already been under state-level treatment. If the proposed provision in the draft law were to be deleted, the small work law should be amended immediately after the adoption of the proposal for a law on employment and the work of foreigners, since the work of foreigners under a small part would not be regulated. Until a small part of the work would be regulated by the Employment and Work Act, only a small part of the work would be possible for foreigners, or there could be different understandings regarding the application of the Employment and Work Act, which categories of foreigners could do little work and on what basis. The same content cannot be achieved without reference to the Small Work Act, since if this law were not adopted, there would be no legal basis for carrying out such a type of work as small work. In the event that the Small Work Act is not confirmed, this provision would be a dead letter on paper which could be quickly and easily eliminated and therefore foreigners would not be deprived in the meantime. It is worth noting that the debaters supported the bill, but some have highlighted in particular the view that it is an extremely positive and humane law in this area and that we must adopt it as soon as possible. The Committee adopted all amendments of the coalition's parliamentary groups, as well as amendments of the SLS Group's amendments to Articles 18, 21 and 22, and of the SDS Group's amendments to Articles 21 and 22. The Committee also adopted two amendments to Articles 27 and 59. Finally, the Committee voted on all the articles of the proposal together and adopted them. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended legislation, which includes the amendments adopted, has been prepared pursuant to Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. The amended bill is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u63	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Miran Györek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian National Party, we have pointed out in the past the irregular and unsustainable situation in the field of employment of foreigners and the shortcomings and inconsistencies in the implementation of the existing and twice as many as 2005 and 2007, the amended and complementary law on employment of foreigners. The law contained a number of ambiguities, insufficient and insufficiently defined criteria and restrictions, and it is logical that as a result a number of different abuses started to occur, which had a negative impact on the situation on the Slovenian labour market and did not help to reduce unemployment, leading to more unregulated and increased employment of foreigners in Slovenia. In the Slovenian National Party, we have also repeatedly pointed out the abuse of the law in question and the irregular granting of permits to foreigners in 2008 and 2009, when the situation in this area has become very chaotic, not to say illegal. We understand that the draft should also take into account international agreements, both bilaterally and multilaterally, and in particular that the proposal should follow certain principles, such as the priority of employment of domestic unemployed persons before employment of foreigners on the basis of work permits; then it is also about equal treatment of foreign and domestic workers in relation to working conditions, as well as for the enco-treatment of nationals of the Member States of the European Union, Switzerland in accessing the Slovenian labour market. Most of the Member States of the European Union already have this area regulated. Some of them have even managed to secure certain bonuses, specific conditions, certain code restrictions and so on within the framework of the European Union and its legislation. In doing so, I think, first of all, we have a kind of close Austria, which takes this issue very seriously and also successfully, for their own good, it saves us. I even have a feeling that certain content has been summed up by their own, perhaps by chance, according to European legislation and such commitments, but maybe we have finally come to the realization that there is no need to detect warm water and sometimes it is easy to look around — perhaps in neighbors or elsewhere where such matters are successfully regulated and regulated. The proposal itself contains a number of positive solutions, such as, for example, a comprehensive solution to the problem of non-application of foreigners to social security, in particular, provisions that oblige employers to pay taxes and contributions, conditions for granting work permits, repealing those, banning the issue of new and criminal sanctions and so on. Finally, it is also about improving the protection and safety of foreign workers and tightening the conditions for extending work permits. The main objective is, among other things, the protection of the Slovenian labour market; I am also referring to the instrument of the quota of work permits for the protection of the Slovenian labour market; and the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has the legal possibility of adopting quotas according to the situation and anticipated movements in the Slovenian labour market. An important objective, which we fully welcome in the Slovenian National Party, is that prevention of abuse must be ensured and perpetrators must be properly sanctioned and such measures must protect a stable labour market in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal also contains provisions in terms of reducing administrative barriers for employers and foreigners, and let me also mention the European Union Blue Card for highly qualified employment of foreigners and so on. Among other things, it covers the housing of foreigners who are employed by Slovenian or foreign employers in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. We witnessed in the media last year, quite embarrassing for Slovenia, the visible bibian and hygiene situation of many foreign workers, especially those in construction and, as a rule, from the republics of the former Yugoslavia. The competent ministers will have to set appropriate standards and, of course, also to ensure their regular application and respect. If we are well aware, the content of the proposal is properly aligned with European Union legislation and the Directives in question. While the proposal contains many other important news that I will not mention on this occasion, it would be good to familiarise the wider Slovenian public, not only with the publication of the law in the Official Journal, but also in other practical, simpler ways. In the Slovenian National Party, we fully agree with most of the proposed innovations and we will support the law in principle. However, with regard to the proposed amendments tabled, we will, on the contrary, decide on the relevance of the contents of the amendments and their integration into the law as a whole in order to ensure that the objectives mentioned above are met. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u65	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Let's say good-bye again to everyone! We have before us an important and necessary law to regulate the area, which will be supported by the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, because the law has good objectives; on the one hand, we harmonise Slovenian legislation with that of Europe, regulate access to the labour market, selectivity in restricting access to employment and work, including the possibility of regulating economic migration, allow employment and work for foreigners, if employers are not able to provide appropriate domestic workers, this seems important to us. On the other hand, we are important in protecting the Slovenian labour market and protecting the rights of foreigners; on the other hand, we are monitoring the employment and work of foreigners in Slovenia, preventing abuses, reducing administrative obstacles and also regulating the housing of foreigners who work with Slovenian or foreign employers in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. The new Act to address the problem of an integrated approach regulates the issue of non-application of foreigners to social security, as provisions are intertwined throughout the whole law, which oblige employers to pay taxes and contributions, make them conditional on the issue of work permits, threaten to revoke licences, prohibit the issuance of new work permits and extensions of licences already issued, and provide for criminal sanctions where cases are not properly regulated. The employer of an alien for whom he has obtained a work permit or a work permit will no longer be able to sign out of social security before the expiry of the work permit, without prior notice at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia. The employer will also have to return the work permit and the evidence from which it will be clear that the working relationship has ceased and that the alien is aware of this fact. Such a solution will prevent unjustified social security cancellations during the working relationship. In addition to the rights set out in this Title, other rights of foreigners depend on inclusion in social security, such as a personal work permit with three years in force, and respect for these provisions and supervision of compliance is essential. The new law also retains the instrument of the quota of work permits for the protection of the Slovenian market, but the government no longer commits to compulsory annual adoption, but allows it to accept the quota on the basis of the situation and anticipated trends in the labour market. In view of the abuses that have occurred most frequently on the basis of the work permits obtained for representatives of companies, the new law also strengthens the conditions for the issue of such work permits. For example, a foreigner who has established an economic society and appointed a foreigner as an agent will have to show new ownership or rental of business premises and an investment in Slovenia of at least 30 000 euros to start an economic society. However, companies already operating in practice will have to demonstrate, in the process of obtaining a working permit for an agent, that they have been operating for six months and that they regularly settle taxes and contributions on employment and work. This seems important to us to underline further, because in this way we will avoid the damage that our country and the various cash registers can suffer and, on the other hand, prevent the abuse of the workers we have witnessed, particularly in the face of the construction crisis. Under these conditions, also fictitious addresses and problems of various inspection bodies and tax administrations of the Republic of Slovenia will be removed in cases where no foreigners were found at a specific address and there was no doubt about the error and abuse. Since we believe that the draft law responds adequately to the situation in the Slovenian labour market, both in terms of abuse of foreign workers and in terms of protecting the interests of the Slovenian labour market, we will support the law uniformly in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u67	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In the introductory supplementary explanation, Minister Svetlik described in sufficient detail the measures proposed for adoption and also linked those measures to the causes which they had actually caused. In the group of unrelated Members, we support these measures, so we also support the proposal for a law on employment and the work of foreigners, and we also support that it has been rewritten in its entirety. Unfortunately, we must note, however, that despite the well-planned measures, the time for these measures has already been delayed for many and that there is no way to correct the many tragedies and accidents that have been caused by the lack of an adequate response environment to the changed social conditions. The question is, how could what is happening and is still taking place in Slovenia happen in the first place? I am thinking mainly of the accidents of employees, not just those of us who are foreigners, but also of our domestic employees who experience similar tragedies. Different circumstances require different responses both in the economic, social and regulatory fields, not at all in the same way, and it seems that at a time when the economic race has grown incredibly rapidly, we have not had an adequate response time. The large economic race claimed a large number of new employees, demanded migration processes, and therefore demanded more employment under the same conditions as under certain other circumstances. That is why we may not have been able to anticipate and intercept those negative consequences that later occurred to us. It is quite amazing that in Slovenia, in just three years, the rate of those who are foreign workers has risen by more than 100 % and later declined, not as dramatic as it had previously been, and that in fact the number of unemployed in us is lower than some feared, probably due to the fact that many of the unemployed have been exported. We have not followed these processes properly. No period should be allowed or excused for what has been happening and whether it is a collective event, we are usually talking about workers working in construction, whether it is individual tragedies, which we are trying to empathically experience in these personal tragedies; it must not be repeated at the level of the rule of law that has not worked as it should, not at the level of the social state that has also reacted too slowly and for many, of course, reacted too late. Perhaps even the worst, and in international circumstances the most noticeable, is that we have wasted all our respect for our business culture, respect for some standards and values that have somehow been lost as water in the sand. Of course, marriage is welcome now, for we hope it will prevent the abuses and irregularities that we have witnessed in the past. That is why we support these measures, and we believe that it is right to take into account both the principles which I intend to stress: the principle of equal treatment of domestic and foreign workers and the principle of protection of domestic jobseekers when this protection is justified. We will therefore also support the amendment, which is proposed, although it is fair to admit that we have supported a different amendment on the working body, which, later found, has led to a disagreement with international law and we must support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u69	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Majda Potter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u70	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! Representatives of trade unions, activists and the media have been pointing out the difficult conditions faced by foreign workers in the Slovenian labour market over the past few years. In specific cases, infringements of the rights of migrant workers and of the poor living conditions in which they live are most common. The situation in this area has further deteriorated as the economic crisis escalates, as many foreign workers in construction work, in one of the sectors most affected by the crisis. We expect Social Democrats to achieve better protection and rights of migrant workers through the new law, more effective prevention of abuse in the issuance of work permits, protection of the labour market and adequate regulation of the living conditions of foreign workers. Other important objectives of the law, the reduction of administrative barriers for employers and foreigners, the harmonisation with European Union legislation and the elimination of certain shortcomings that cause confusion in the implementation of the current law should also be mentioned. The most important thing for greater protection of foreign workers is to facilitate the conditions for obtaining personal work permits. Another important novelty concerns the additional verification of employers in the procedure where they wish to extend the employee’s employment permit. Social Democrats believe that the creation of a legal basis for regulating housing standards for migrant workers is among the important provisions of this Act in cases where employers ensure their accommodation. Access to the labour market for highly qualified workers from third countries is also significantly facilitated between the novelties of the Employment Act and the work of foreigners. However, measures to facilitate access to the Slovenian labour market for certain groups of migrant workers were also defined by the economic migration strategy adopted by the Government at the end of last year. When talking about regulating the social situation of foreign workers in Slovenia, it should also be said that the law on employment and the work of foreigners, together with the law on foreign workers, is a fundamental law governing labour migration in the Republic of Slovenia. Other laws also define the socio-economic situation and other rights of third-country nationals in the Republic of Slovenia. Therefore, if we are to regulate the socio-economic situation of migrant workers in an integrated manner, we must also cut into other legal acts. In the last year, we wanted to speed up the resolution of the social pressures of migrant workers, so we presented a Member of Parliament's initiative to set up a special fund from which workers could be paid with temporary work permits and temporary work permits in the Republic of Slovenia, as in many cases they were left without pay in construction companies and without the possibility of exercising employment rights. The government responded to this initiative with a proposal for a systemic solution: by amending the Social Security Agreement between the Republic of Slovenia and Bosnia and Herzegovina, which was ratified at the February regular meeting of the National Assembly, labour migrants from Bosnia and Herzegovina will be entitled to a monetary refund in the event of unemployment, even if they do not have a permanent residence permit in Slovenia, which was a condition in the current agreement. We hope that Bosnia and Herzegovina will ratify the agreement as soon as possible, so that it can be implemented. This will at least partially improve the social situation of working migrants from Bosnia and Herzegovina. Let me say again that at the end of 2010, the Government has also adopted a strategy for economic migration by 2020, based on the needs of the economy and taking into account demographic trends, defining guidelines and measures for the effective management of economic migration. Although the economic crisis has been reflected in reducing the needs of foreign workers, Slovenia will need a sufficient number of relevant foreign workers in the long term for a new economic start. Let me get this. However, the employment and work situation of foreigners has started to resolve systematically. Social Democrats are convinced that the law before us largely eliminates the possibility of violations and abuses that have become particularly obvious in times of economic crisis. This law also provides some new important solutions to improve the protection of the rights of migrant workers, and we will support it. And so are the amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u71	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Stefan Tessel.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u72	Good-bye to all of you. Mr Vice-President, Mr Minister, Members and Members of Parliament! As we could monitor in the labour market, in the media as well as in public debates, many abuses took place in the employment and work of foreigners in Slovenia. Often these were: inadequate accommodations for foreigners and rents, a mass establishment of companies with limited liability through officials in Slovenia, while the founders of a foreign natural person in their country and on the basis of established companies, foreigners obtained two work permits, one for the representative and the other for his majority owner. Since the purpose of the foreigners was not to carry out activities in Slovenia, they went to other European Union countries after obtaining residence permits. It was then possible to obtain more work permits for stocks and foreign workers who had the least vocational education to obtain a longer work permit, enabling them to obtain the present law. Although the employment of foreigners has decreased in the last year and a half, protection of the Slovenian labour market and, above all, the prevention of abuse of labour law is of paramount importance and requires comprehensive and transparent regulation. The proposed new law on employment and the work of foreigners has also been amended by the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons. At the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce and Enterprise, we proposed an amendment to Article 18 of the Slovenian Democratic Party, which requires the foreign employer to attach a company registration certificate and a statement of taxes paid and contributions from the tax office of the Member State of the European Union where the employer is established. The amendment was adopted in substance. This would prevent the manipulation of workers and the coalition once again submits an amendment to the second reading, which deletes the guard, as this would constitute an unequal situation with Slovenian service providers according to European guidelines. The solutions offered by the proposed law will strengthen the protection of the rights of workers who are employed or working with Slovenian employers, as it contains provisions which oblige employers to pay taxes and contributions, which could address the problem of non-application of foreigners to social security while also protecting the Slovenian labour market and preventing abuse, as the law imposes stricter restrictions on the establishment of an economic society of a foreigner, where it is also an agent called a foreigner, so Slovenian permits would no longer be misused. The proposed law also regulates the housing of foreigners who work with a Slovenian or foreign employer in Slovenia. However, the proposed law applies the principle of equal treatment of foreign and domestic workers with regard to working conditions and retains the priority of employment for domestic unemployed persons or persons who are equal to nationals of the Republic of Slovenia with regard to employment rights on the basis of work permits. Third-country nationals can thus, without the control of the labour market, work or employment only as seasonal workers, and not everywhere, as we have heard. Compared to the current regulation, however, the bill no longer allows the seasonal work of foreigners in construction and in catering and tourism, which means that foreigners can only be employed in these activities if there is no adequate domestic labour force. The draft law provides that the Employment Office must check whether the employer has, in the last six months, proposed a tax deduction for income from the employment relationship or payment list and settled taxes and contributions on employment and work. Certainly, the new law on employment and the work of foreigners brings good improvements: it reduces administrative procedures, prevents manipulation in obtaining work permits, provides for more order in fulfilling the obligation to pay social contributions, requires minimum living conditions for foreign workers and others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u73	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u74	Dear President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Recently, especially in the wake of the outbreak of the crisis, Slovenian legislation, whether liberal or not, has proved to be the subject of very serious speculation and abuse by users. At the same time, I would like a lot of people to be able to legislate ethics and morality that some so-called entrepreneurs might have put on a higher level. The law that is ahead of us, or it cannot do so, improves the conditions for more than 10,000 people who have chosen Slovenia for a better life. This is a new law, which, in addition to implementing European legislation, has already been mentioned as a Blue Card, in the first place eliminates the abuse of employment and residence of foreigners that have occurred in the past and which we hope will be no more. The most abuses were in the area of inadequate accommodation of foreigners at retail rentals for accommodations, the owner of which was several times the employer himself and also in the area of the already mentioned mass establishment of companies with limited liability through officials in Slovenia, while the founders of a foreign natural person and on this basis the foreigners were given two work permits; for the representative and for the majority owner. Their purpose was not even to carry out activities in Slovenia, so they went to other countries in the Schengen area after obtaining their permits, and those parts were closed. Some employers, as mentioned above, obtained permits for supplies. Foreigners were thus detained in their countries with applications for residence permits until possible new business was acquired. In this way, the number of unrealised work permits and the use of the quota for these licences have also increased. Most frequently, foreigners, as mentioned above, have been prevented from obtaining a two-year job with the same employer and thus the possibility of obtaining a personal work permit with the validity of three years. And the stories we witnessed were the stories of this modern - day slavery and some feudal addiction. While some abuses have already been eliminated by the competent ministry by adopting the Regulation on Restrictions and Prohibitions on the Employment and Work of Foreigners and the Regulation on the Quota for 2010 which limits or reduces the number of foreigners on the labour market. We probably all agree that in times of economic crisis, protection of the Slovenian labour market and, above all, prevention of abuse of labour law is of paramount importance. That is why the Government has decided to take a comprehensive approach to regulating this area and, according to the assessment of the Really Group, the new policy is its primary objective of preventing the abuses we have witnessed recently. And in view of the situation in which foreign workers have been living, it is also exceptional to establish a legal basis for the issue of a sub-legislative regulation on the accommodation of foreigners, since the current, or repeated, standards are more than 30 years old. Perhaps the content of certain chapters of the law for some users will be stricter and more restrictive because we are introducing a higher level of legal protection for foreigners in Slovenian employers. In doing so, we hope that the stories we witnessed, especially some of the former builders, will no longer be repeated. We also introduce stricter conditions for granting a work permit for representatives of companies and thus allow for the proper protection of the Slovenian labour market. In the Zares Group – we are very satisfied with the content of the law. However, the fact is that in preventing abuse in the labour market, even when it comes to employment and the work of foreigners, is partly limited by liberal European legislation, for which we need to know that it has been written for the environment with a completely different business ethics. In Scandinavian countries, for example, all the forms of abuse that we witnessed during the crisis are unknown. What we have missed in the past was the exercise of equal treatment between foreign and domestic workers in relation to working conditions and rights, the priority of employment of domestic unemployed persons and ensuring equal treatment of citizens of the Member States of the European Union, the European Economic Area and the Swiss Confederation and their family members in accessing the Slovenian labour market. The new bill fully follows and solves this problem. Indeed, in the Group of Members, we will be pleased to support the draft law, which is in line with the social partners and supported by the Economic and Social Council, because, as has already been said in the debate on the labour market, it is necessary and particularly human.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u75	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Janez Ribič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u76	Mr. Secretary, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have considered changes to the law on employment and the work of foreigners in the light of recent discussions and efforts to prevent work and employment in black and in the light of unacceptable treatment of foreign workers in our country. However, we cannot agree to put domestic employers and our workers in a worse position through this law. The principles of the law that the Government has written in the explanation of the law are welcome, but in the Slovenian People's Party's Group we believe that the law is not written in accordance with these principles. The proposal for a law on employment and the work of foreigners should apply in particular the following principles: equal treatment of foreign and domestic workers, the priority of employment of domestic unemployed persons against the employment of foreigners, ensuring equal treatment of citizens of the Member States of the European Union and the Swiss Confederation and their family members in accordance with the European Union acquis. However, if amendments tabled by the coalition to the amended bill are adopted, these principles will not be in force in the law. How can the state control and prevent the recent events concerning construction workers from happening again if these new amendments are deleted by our amendments, the foreign employer will not be obliged to prove to us that he is carrying out the activity for which he is registered and that he has legal and actual employees, so that they do not work in the dark with us. Such additions were also proposed by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. The protection of the Slovenian labour market and the prevention of abuse with the proposed amendments of the coalition will not be ensured; foreigners will have easier conditions for black work, so the purpose of the law will not be fully guaranteed. This law therefore brings about a mere reduction of administrative barriers for foreign employers and foreigners and easier regulation of the area of accommodation of foreigners in Slovenia, which work with Slovenian or foreign employers in the territory of Slovenia. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, such a law constitutes discrimination against domestic employers and workers, and we cannot support it if our supplements, which have been adopted on the Committee, are deleted from the law by voting today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u77	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! In Slovenia, there has been an extremely pressing problem of foreign workers, who are mostly employed in the black sector. They are also subject to slavery, exploitation, life, and inhumane living conditions. Such foreign workers do not hope to report their employers for a number of reasons, including not being punished themselves and simply fearing their employers. Therefore, the proposal for a law that we are considering today could be referred to as a humanitarian law. However, it is sad that employers in the Republic of Slovenia, which was once regarded as a promised country and because all Slovenians wanted to become really, show the worst face of capitalism, which is prepared to extract an individual, if necessary, to achieve its own financial benefits. It is therefore a proposal for a law that, among other things, strengthens the conditions for obtaining work permits for employers. It aims to prevent abuse of work permits, to strengthen the legal safety of migrant workers, including their accommodation, to protect the Slovenian labour market and to establish a Slovenian legal order with European directives. The main points of the bill are the stricter conditions for granting work permits for representatives of companies, the stricter conditions for extending work permits for employers, they will have to prove that they are taxpayers and contributors and greater protection of the rights of foreigners in terms of easier conditions for obtaining a personal work permit with a validity of three years. This proposal will also provide a legal basis for the issue of a sub-legislative act on minimum living hygiene standards for foreign workers, the suspension of seasonal work in construction, catering and tourism and the simple issuance of a blue one that is important for the acquisition of highly qualified personnel. Most of the time we discussed the draft law in Article 18, which deals with the preparation of an employer for the execution of a service in Slovenia, most of whom felt that the proposal for a law in this place favours foreign employers, while Slovenian employers should show that they are registered for an activity and that they pay taxes and contributions, to foreign employers they should not do so. Therefore, to prevent such differences, we have also adopted an amendment equaling foreign and Slovenian employers. As we in the DeSUS Group estimate that this is a proposal for a law that can bring about improvements in working conditions for foreigners who come to our country to seek better and better tomorrow, we will support it. We will also support all the amendments tabled. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u79	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate and decision-making on the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been tabled. This is paragraphs 18, 27 and 34. First of all, I am putting forward an amendment to Article 18 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Mr. Tessel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. This article, which has been discussed on several groups of speakers or on reports, is a larger security guard for our workers, who would be employed or also foreign workers, who are employed by a foreign employer if he has a registered activity or if he has paid all the contributions. Here we were somehow united in all the parliamentary groups on the initiative of the Chamber of Commerce, which gave this thought, but then convinced us from the government, then there would be workers in an unequal position or employers and that European directives prevent or prevent this. If we compare the case when it comes to guarantees for technical appliances, when it turns out that the truth is purely elsewhere, we might be able to do the same, so that this amendment is not accepted and we leave these guards bigger, because business morality is certainly greater in the European Union and if foreign employers see that it is possible to fish in mud in Slovenia or in other countries that have joined later, they will certainly take advantage of these options. For we know that business goals are profits and try to avoid these obligations. That is why we will not support this amendment because it destroys the amendment that has been adopted together and I propose that we remain on what we have adopted on the committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u82	Well, hello, everyone here. Allow me first to answer Mr Gorenak at the previous point, I do not know with what context the water supply in Goreška has been mentioned. But maybe you don't know that we've won 27 million and we've been building this plumbing for two years. But I hope you've stepped on the beautiful Goriška with your clean shoes. To go to law school. Normally, demographic trends in Slovenia are such as in developed democracies and economies; in countries there are always some works that domestic people do not want to do. Unfortunately, this is also happening in Slovenia, and this 18th article opens up a problem here that equates all of our unemployed and others who could otherwise do a job that they unfortunately do not like. I must say that from 2008 to 2011, it has decreased by about 20,000 workers, we still say, from other republics. I'm very sorry that the unions no longer dealt with this population, of course not their members, they don't pay membership fees, but what winter would not hurt them. Except in exceptional cases where I know that individual union workers have worked hard and helped these poor people. My friend Willy Rezman was talking about tragedies, accidents, I'd talk about shame. It is a shame for Slovenia that in this economic crisis, those people who were literally slaves in some construction sites experienced such a tragedy. We were in the Serbian Parliament last week, and it's a shame again when they told us how SCT picked up the seams and hooves from extremely good investments in the bridge across the Sava River, the road and so on. Apparently, we're Slovenians, and here we're gonna have to make some inventory and say goodbye to someone. Now an agreement is being drawn up with Bosnia and Herzegovina, we are waiting for this country's ratification, and I hope that this matter will then be resolved, otherwise. You know that SDK was terminated because it was too real-socialistic, but now we're returning it in some other context. You won't be able to pay if no contributions are paid, and that's exactly what these workers do, and I think it's a measure that will give us all back our reputation. However, I have to say that there are many cases, I know this from the local environment where so-called 'bodies' have been paid, but they have not given it to their workers, they are lost to Bosnia and Herzegovina or anywhere, and workers have been left without all social security here in Slovenia. I'll be happy to support this marriage. Too bad it's so late, we should have it before the crisis, then this thing would have a completely different effect, but it's never too late. Of course, I will also support paragraphs 27 and 34. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Marian Crossman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u84	Thank you very much. John's a nice name too, so it's not a problem. Yes, the law has emerged in the light of the circumstances that have arisen in recent years, when the crisis occurred, especially in construction, and the owners of companies who also wanted to be rich quickly as they were when the conjunctura occurred and to have much more of this work than they had had. This led to the abuse of workers, and all of a sudden, workers, the so - called workers, became tools and tools for wealth. Unfortunately. And a lot of fate ended tragically, and a lot of people went home with nothing. But, well, that's what my predecessors have been talking about. I will open Article 18, which regulates payments, regulates registration and so on, and all of this will have to be submitted if you want to open the company. Nothing will be given to any of the workers just to some hidden company, how would you say, "recast" at a time when it will suit you, when the payments are coming and when you put the workers on another company, you don't have to pay them anymore, they're not the same employer's workers anymore. As one such civilisation, it may be very difficult to talk about it, the value is also that people in a sub-law would get some regulation on where they would sleep, they would get some minimum hygiene conditions for life. In my opinion, this is what we have talked about on the committee and everywhere, and what has been said and what has been said most in public, and what is media, especially television, has shown what is happening in our country. And as Mirko Brulc or someone else said – Slovenia has fallen so badly with such a bad attitude toward people. However, I do not believe that there is now any need for an apology because the law will be passed, the law will function and things will change. But there are many employers who also came from elsewhere and thought that Slovenia was soft for money. This has not been achieved and, of course, it has been done in such a way that we have been led to the fact that all that this law is talking about today and is before us, to put it into practice, to accept it and to stop this wild employment and wealth at the expense of the labour force, not at the expense of the work and contracts that someone has concluded with another in order to create their own well-being. Of course, I will support the law, and I am sure that it will come to an end in the public and also in those who will use it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u85	Thank you very much. I can see that there are some other people who have been reported for discussion. Please, whoever's going to discuss this is going to sign up. Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u86	Honourable Vice-President, Honourable Minister, colleagues and colleagues. Nice to meet you! I would like to say that we will certainly support the amendment to Article 18, Article 27 and Article 34. I will also support the law on the employment of foreigners for a simple reason, because we have had a large number of foreigners employed in Slovenia, and I am sure that in just a short time there will be times when we will need these foreigners again. Of course, on account of this much written, we have experienced a lot of incorrectness in Slovenia to them and these things need to be corrected in a short time. Why am I saying we're gonna need them again? Because it is now evident that according to the latest data, our exports are increased by about 20%. That's excellent information. What happened in Slovenia to increase exports? It happened that exporters were excellent and that some others who were not exporters in Slovenia at the moment, and given that there were not enough business opportunities for everyone in Slovenia, they had to focus on exports. So today we are recording an excellent 20% increase in exports also on the basis of the fact that, as I have said, those who have not been exporters so far are taking on exports. This means once again opportunities and I am sure that we will record growth, opportunities and employment in Slovenia in a short time. On this account, everyone today should say — and perhaps even sometimes expect from those who have been very unfair to these workers — that today, by this new law, we are establishing normal conditions so that tomorrow, in a few months, in a way, some year later, under normal conditions, human conditions, we can re-engage these foreign workers. And that's what we're establishing with this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. The amendment only returns the original text. With this deletion, we have actually followed the amendment that followed the proposal of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry. However, bearing in mind that the law has been harmonised with the social partners, this change must be considered from the perspective of proportionality of the measures and of the basis for the European Union's action, in which the free movement of goods and services is also the case. Here are some other points to mention, including the relationship between a foreign employer and a foreign worker who has to regulate things in principle or according to the legislation of the country from which they come. So I think it is only right if we confirm the text in the form originally intended. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I cannot give my word to Mrs Bradi Pečan and Andrei Črnak Meglič because the time for the Group of Members has passed. Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u90	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I must address this Article 18 and the amendment tabled. Indeed, our proposal has been confirmed on the Committee and I do not know why there is an amendment and a change today. Members of the Slovenian People's Party oppose the amendment of the coalition to Article 18. If this amendment is adopted, our adopted amendment will be deleted. The amendment of the Slovenian People's Party to Article 18 was adopted in the course of the consideration of the draft law on the home working body, which provides that a foreigner must also submit a certificate of registration of the employer and a statement of taxes and contributions paid prior to the entry into service in the Republic of Slovenia. Such an amendment was also proposed by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, which you all mentioned. In our view, this requirement is not disproportionate in any way; it is only a provision in the spirit of preventing the work of foreigners to be carried out in black with us. So it is intended to prevent the abuse of foreign workers, as we have seen recently in construction workers from abroad. In the spirit of the law on the prevention of work in black, in our opinion, it is right that we also require foreign companies to prove that they are not working in black, but that they are employed and that they are doing business legally. Without these provisions, the law will only facilitate conditions for foreigners, while our domestic employers will be constantly monitored and controlled by the new law on the prevention of work on black inspectors. I'm asking you, dear colleagues, is this not an additional bureaucracy? Doesn't that put our entrepreneur in an unequal position with strangers? It is not true that this would put a foreign company in an unequal, discriminatory position compared to a Slovenian company. It is true, however, that this would prevent potential abuse of foreign workers and unfair competition for domestic companies. In our view, the requirement to submit a company registration certificate and a statement by the tax authorities on settled tax liabilities does not constitute disproportionate restrictive measures and is merely a measure to prevent black work. If this provision is deleted, Members of the Slovenian People's Party cannot support this law because it will be unfair to our businesses and workers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u92	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. First of all, before I touch the amendment itself, which I am talking about, let me say that in my opinion the law is also a big step forward. We needed it, although I believe it could be more radical in many ways, and in particular more focused on the interests of employees or workers. In particular, the issue of a work permit is still quite dependent on employers, and it must be acknowledged that the solution offered by law is such that it will prevent the abuses we have witnessed. In particular, the fact that after 24 months the worker had to be employed by only one employer, that the pre-condition for obtaining a work permit, allowed for serious abuse. Now there is virtually no possibility, and this is a great advance. The fact is that in recent months we have also witnessed the crisis, especially in the construction sector, situations that could be described as modern slavery. There have been so extreme situations and so extreme abuses and forms of exploitation of construction workers, in particular foreign construction workers, when we faced human dramas where wages were not paid, no contributions were paid, and living conditions were unbearable. This law also seeks to answer these open questions to a certain extent. I repeat: not very radically, we could be more ambitious, but certainly in the right direction. Article 18, where an amendment is proposed, the amendment signed by all the coalition's parliamentary groups opens up one very problematic area concerning European legislation and also our Slovenian legislation. For the explanation of this amendment, which is intended to delete the second paragraph of Article 18, shows that our companies do not in fact need proof of the payment of taxes and other contributions to start their own services in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. And reciprocally, in the light of equality, this should not be required of other employers, foreign employers who come from countries where they are likely to have different legislation. European legislation has not yet harmonised the criteria, and this means that our legislation, which is becoming more restrictive and no longer allowing us to postpone the payment of contributions, can put us in an uncompetitive position towards those countries where, for example, financial discipline and other discipline are not yet so assured. That's one problem. The second problem is that I do not see how the company should work with us and start its services without ensuring that the taxes and all the required contributions are paid in advance. So in this explanation, why this amendment is not acceptable, I don't understand it very well. I expect that the only way the company can work is if it hasn't worked in black so far, and it's fulfilled all the legal obligations. We expect the same from a foreign company and a foreign employer. So I think the paragraph that we would like to delete with this amendment is actually meaningful and very useful. I am aware, however, that it is inconsistent with European directives and that we should confront and face opposition from the European Commission, which could tell us that. But this is about working rights in Europe. And if we go into a more extreme comparison, for example, it is also about the labour rights of foreign workers who are outside the European Union. For example, China will be increasingly competitive because there is no respect for any labour or union rights and prices will be significantly lower than ours. We have something similar within the European Union. Despite the directives, despite standardised solutions, it should be noted that there are different legislation in the field of labour rights and work permits, and the issue of work permits. That way, I don't really see any harm in this paragraph. This is a safeguard that would ensure a more proper approach between a foreign company and a foreign employer on our market. Thus, when we vote and decide on this amendment, we will weigh between the commitments we have to the European Union and the European Commission, but I think we always have a negotiating place where we can explain. And even more, we even demand that European directives be adapted to legislation, which we consider to be significantly better and fairer. I think that such legislation would be more equitable with this second paragraph, it would make sense and perhaps be worth fighting within the European Union. That is my personal opinion, although our parliamentary group is also among the sponsors of this amendment – and I also ask the Minister whether it would be truly fatal if we did not accept this amendment and leave the article untouched. What would also happen in relation to the European Commission? Could this problem also be highlighted at European level and start with the introduction of discipline in such an article? I think that this is one of those motives where the battle is worth it, and it is not necessary to get the defeated out of this debate. So I ask the question: What happens if we do not accept this amendment and if Article 18 remains intact? I think it is a safeguard, which must also be assessed not only in terms of the interests of our workers and our businesses in these competitive situations, but also in terms of the long-term increase in workers' rights in other European countries. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Dr Ivan Svetlik, Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u94	Thank you very much. Respected and respected! The amendment of the Slovenian People's Party, which was first adopted, is now proposed to withdraw, of course, has a good purpose. We have also understood this when this amendment has been tabled, but after re-examination of these directives, which also provide for our legislation in order, we find that we cannot maintain it in this form. However, I would like to point out that there is a need to distinguish between two in this debate. Firstly, it is a cross-border provision of services to an undertaking in another country. In this case, it's about sending workers to another country or from other countries to us. This is about posted workers, posting workers. Another question is when a worker, someone from another country, a third country, comes to us and asks for a work permit, either to carry out his own business or to work with someone. Then this is about the issue of work permits. These two things do not mix with each other under the current European regime. When we go to the first example, it is said that when it comes to posted workers to provide services to us, for example, when a foreign company comes with these workers, they do not need work permits. A company comes with all the workers worth visiting our premises and can provide its services here. However, these workers must have a status with him, in this company, as provided for in the legislation of the country in which he is established. It is their legislation, their order and, of course, the responsibility of this country to control this company, whether it has all these things as regulated as they must be. While, of course, what is likely to happen can also happen, that foreign company comes to us again with workers from a third country. That's possible, too. But this is a thing that must be controlled by the country where the company has its seat. And in this sense, such an arrangement would mean that we then require from this company what we do not require from our companies, it is said that it should provide some evidence which our companies do not provide when they arrive at the workplace when they provide a service anywhere. In this respect, this would mean and could be interpreted as being an additional disproportionate measure when requested by the undertaking providing such a service. Of course, another is a very relevant question, but what if this company comes from a country that has lower standards? A very relevant question! But this question is handled in a different way. Here, however, we have the minimum rights for workers to be granted when sent to another country. This is regulated by Directive 96/71 of the European Council on the posting of workers in the context of the provision of services. This Directive, however, states that they must be provided to these workers, irrespective of how this country has its own minimum working and employment conditions, in accordance with national rules and generally applicable collective agreements, as applicable in the country in which it went to work. These minimum standards. So, for example, if a Romanian company has lower wages than our companies have, it has to pay a minimum wage according to our standards. So it can't go below the price that we set for a worker as a minimum wage. This is the same for other rights that we have set out, agreed upon in collective agreements or laid down in our legislation. Of course, the same goes for our companies to understand when they go to Austria, for example. As it was immediately a question of whether our companies could have lower wages to compete across borders, they would not, because they had to meet these minimum standards as provided by Austrian rules. Minimum standards. Of course, of the minimum standards up there is what they call competition within the European Union in the free market for services, where it is necessary to take into account that an undertaking can be priced and that another slightly more expensive service is provided. And that's what all the logic of dealing with all these issues is now. Of course, we can see that this logic has shortcomings, does not fully hold; but we cannot, of course, do this on this path to say that we will not respect the rights of the European Union, but we will risk the dispute and the payment of penalties, but we must do so if we think that this would be right, through our Members in the European Parliament and then demand that the directives governing this issue be amended accordingly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u95	Thank you very much. I don't see any more desire for a debate. More, Mr. Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Listening to the Minister's explanation is one thing, perhaps from theoretical work, from practical work and from experience, however, this amendment would solve some things. Finally, the Chamber of Commerce and Industry agrees that the declaration of the type of service provided is not sufficient, but that the employer should demonstrate that he actually has a registered activity that he wishes to carry out. By submitting a certificate of employer registration, but it would definitely be much better for the entire performance of the employer, even for the employees, if you want them to be with such an employer, that they know at the beginning, even if they were operating in a country where it is, as it seems, that taxes and contributions are paid. In fact, there's a lot going on. I'll be specific. I know the cases where companies from outside were performing in Slovenia by coming with their workers and lending them to other companies to do some work. Even more, it was also used by some public companies. And what was going on? This company, which loaned the workers, did not, however, pay for the work done, but this entrepreneur, who came with the workers, set aside — to whom? Here in this country's duty. Minister – a specific case. And what happened? The one who once paid this entrepreneur his job received a tax bill today and had to pay the taxes once again. I think that's completely unacceptable. Of course, I am not saying that we would stop it, but we would still have a picture of who is coming and how, of course, this entrepreneur came, closed the company and the story was over. I know the case when even the police had to intervene between one and the other, but this Slovenian employer was perfectly right in this case and was unjustifiably tarnished and paid the fees. Given that some Members have debated in support of this amendment, this amendment will bring more good to this proposal for the Employment of Foreigners Act, and I think it is more bad if they do not accept this amendment. Once, and not for long, someone told me that, and I also read some, Members should be more vigilant about adopting legislation, not just confirming what the government is preparing. I agree with that. This is solely because 90 people who have been elected from the electorate and the electorate, and we are in contact with construction workers, municipalities, health care, social and culture, the whole social spectrum, we have much more information, including concrete ones, than only those who prepare legislation and draw it up under certain provisions. That is why such amendments are vital, and I hope that this amendment will be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u97	Thank you very much. I no longer see the desire for a debate, so I am concluding the debate on Article 18 and the amendment to this Article. We are moving on to the debate on Article 27 and the amendment tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. I do not see the desire for a debate and I conclude the debate. We are moving on to the debate on Article 34 and the amendment tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups to this article. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote at 18.10. This concludes this agenda item. We'll continue at 1810.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u98	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members of Parliament are requested to verify the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the adjourned 5th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law amending the Law on the Mother Records of Insurance and Users of Pension and Disability Insurance following a reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 75 votes against none. [[The vote was 75.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Land Book in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2011. We first decide on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 40. Anyone want a word on behalf of the Group of Members? Please, Dr. Gorenak, explain your voice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u99	Explanation of voice. This amendment, which is linked to another one, speaks in fact of how we can even invest in land-book matters. It was also a conflict, if I may say so, in the previous adoption of the law. The coalition passed the law and the State Council vetoed it and then the coalition did not vote. At that time, it was no longer possible for individuals to file land claims only for lawyers and notaries. In this version of the law, the coalition has actually fixed only two things in the version of the law that is before us today. The first is that it extended the beneficiaries to real estate agencies, and secondly that it also gave this right to an individual who has computer access to a secure system if I simplify it. And so, according to the Council of Justice. For the Council of Justice has warned and said that it does not agree with this law in particular in the part where it is no longer possible for an individual to be physically able, since it is particularly for older persons, to bring documentation to the appropriate court and to bring the matter to an end. Our amendment, which connects with each other, eliminates this. Therefore, they give the right to individuals who are particularly older and unaccustomed computer technologies so that they can arrange this for their own needs in court for lower costs, and we feel that it is appropriate. The adoption of these two amendments is also a condition later in support of the law. For we do not see the need for what Mary Teresa introduced and said that even an illiterate citizen, since there were few more of them at the time, can do the land book in court so that today, so long after Mary Teresa, it can be taken away from the people. That's why I'm asking you to support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u100	I see no one wants another word, so we'll move on to the decision. Before we decide, I would like to warn you that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 55. If this amendment, which we will now decide on, is not adopted, the amendment becomes irrelevant to Article 55. We're voting. 76 Members and Members, 33 votes to 42. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 42.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This has made the amendment irrelevant to Article 55. This concludes the decision on the amendments and concludes the second reading of the bill. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the amendment was not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u101	Thank you very much. So we accept, you will adopt without us into the SDS law that you already passed last November, and the State Council has vetoed. Then you changed your mind and threw it in the coalition. This means that then we, in the opposition, put forward a bill that would fit, and you said no to him. Because he was opposition, wasn't he, or would he be okay? It was then tabled by a group of Members, but this law, which we are about to vote on, is identical to that which was rejected by the Council of State and is identical to that which you later did not confirm. You've only made two exceptions. This exception is that in addition to lawyers and notaries, you allow such things to be done to real estate agents and individuals who have a computer with secure mail and have such access. But you take this right by this law to people who are in principle poorer, in principle older people who do not master such things. Lawyers and notaries or real estate agencies will do this for them. The Chamber of Commerce has warned us that this means between €10 million and €30 million, which will be out of the hands of individuals and given to these very categories of people. The municipalities will no longer be allowed to apply for land books, congregations with full legal services such as Ljubljana. But as far as he's concerned, the situation is relatively clear. The Chamber of Commerce has made it very clear that it is not in Europe a system that is at least similar to what the coalition proposes. But I'm sorry. This proposal for a law based on anti-human attitudes and lobbying, which you wish to adopt, will be adopted without our support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u102	Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Zaiovic, on behalf of the LDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u103	The issue is that the law gives equal opportunities to all. Those who want to file a physical case as natural persons will be able to do so at the District Court in Ljubljana, and the rest will be able to invest either in electronic form or via notaries. Already 95 % of users of these services are investing in land-book matters through notaries. Of course, it does not mean that the municipalities will not have this option, nor do the municipalities, where they are defined as legal persons, have this function. Let's take another look. In addition to notaries, the land register proposal will also be open to the submission of natural or legal persons on their behalf, as well as lawyers, companies, real estate agencies that meet the conditions for the provision of real estate services, as well as, for sure, state and municipal law. I am pleased that we have reached our full agreement when we presented the proposal to the Council of State committee, where it has been vetoed, and that we have also adopted, on the Committee on Internal Policy, in spite of the spectre of controversy, a political Huja debate, at the end of the law, in agreement with 10 votes in favour and none against.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u104	Ms Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor on behalf of the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u105	Thank you very much. We will truly support the law in the Group of Members, for it is necessary to say that the proposal before us is essential, but indeed essential, different and significantly better than that which has been rejected in the past month. If I go in line, then I must say that in law we have first achieved that the circle of those who can make land-book proposals is significantly broader. These are also municipalities as legal entities, including other natural persons with adequate electronic communications, including entrepreneurs, independent entrepreneurs and businesses. The range of those who can invest is significantly wider. Another time. Citizens will also be able to directly submit their proposals to the Court, as stated in Article 125a in point 11, which will allow them to do so on the record. And here is a change that is also essential. What we may still be partially disappointed in our Group is that in this work we have not made it possible for authorized persons to do so and not to limit the possibility of investing solely in a court where the property lies. Unfortunately, we have not succeeded here, but because of this matter we still believe that the law is significantly better than it was, and many debaters today do not talk about the document that we have, but rather about what we have already rejected. There were certain things that were not possible, and now the circle is much wider. I think these concerns are still minor, so we can support such a law. However, the dilemma, which is already open from the ground, remains whether Slovenia goes entirely solely to e-investment or we will also preserve other forms of investment. And at this point, we're also being warned in the Council of Justice, but there's probably no going back here.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u106	Mr Kikelj has the floor on behalf of the SD Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u107	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We will also support this law in our parliamentary group. I have already explained in the opening presentation why, but I would just like to point out that what they say in the opposition is virtually not true. Any natural, legal person on his own behalf will be able to invest, the representative of the applicant will be able to invest, an economic company or espé that deals with property that is registered, and will also be able to invest state and municipal law. As we recall from the previous law, the main comments from the congregations were that they would not be able to invest themselves, that is now being corrected, and we believe that these changes that the law has experienced since the fall are certainly acceptable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u108	Mr Gorenak has the word in his own name.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u109	Thank you. In his own name and not the coalition MPs, because it makes no sense, but to the viewers. In my own name, that's all I can say. The Council of Justice is against and says: "We do not agree that during a transitional period you are preventing a person from making a permanent investment in physical form. Leave this article." That's what the Council of Justice said. No, no, no. This Article has remained in place and will only be made available in electronic form or by individuals or by natural persons for a certain period of time. That's right. But it means that during a certain period of time, because of the article you have, an individual will not be able to do so. And this loving individual, now 'fuytramo', in his own words, with the court in Ljubljana, because it will be possible there. My dears, you know, not in this way, and for a fundamental reason, because the court in Ljubljana needs to be reached. This is not 100 m away in Slovenian mountains, in Haloza, in Kozianski or in the White landscape or in the area of Gorica – it is necessary to get there. So a little bit of people need to be looked at and not just at the lobby. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u110	Mrs. Zalokar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u111	Even in my own name. I will uphold the law because the land policy proposals can be filed in any court. What is limited is the submission of complaints, objections and other applications, not a land book proposal. This part can only be invested in the District Court in Ljubljana. As far as the last thing I think is right is to support the law, the transitional period is deleted in this law and is no longer. Three years is no longer a transitional period, but from now on a permanent opportunity has been given to all citizens to be able to submit their proposals in court directly, personally, in an area where they have or where they have a specific parcel. Such a transitional period is no longer available. This was the initial proposal of our party, which we have extended and in fact has become a matter without time constraints.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u112	We're moving on to decision-making. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 54 votes against 21. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[Against 21.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 9th item of the agenda – this is the second reading of the Proposal for a Law on Employment and Work of Foreigners in the framework of the regular procedure. We are moving on to a decision on the amendments tabled, to be made on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 3. 2011. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 18. I'm guessing no one wants to discuss it. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 27. I'm sorry. We'll vote on the last one. We vote on Article 18. There are 76 Members and Members present, 43 votes against 26. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 26.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 27. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 71 votes against none. [[The vote was 71.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We decide on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 34. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have concluded our decision on the amendments. This concludes the second reading of the bill. I give the floor to the representative of the Government, the proposer of the bill, if he wishes to make a proposal for further consideration. Mr. Svetlik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u113	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Messengers and Members! In view of the fact that there are only three amendments to this law, I propose that, in accordance with Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a third reading be carried out in the course of this meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u114	Thank you very much. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended bill were adopted in the second reading, the drafter proposes that the assembly, on the basis of Article 138(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly, carry out a third examination of the draft law at that meeting. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal. A decision will not be taken if it is opposed by more than a third of the Members present. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 56 votes against none. [[56 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. The State Assembly will hold its third consideration of the bill on Tuesday 29th. 3. 2011, after the end of the vote. The assembly services will prepare a review to include the amendments and the articles to which the amendments have been adopted. Amendments to this Article may be tabled by qualified applicants before the beginning of the third reading of the draft law at the meeting of the assembly. I'm breaking this agenda. We move on to the 23rd A-point of the agenda, which is to respond to the demands of the group of experts, to the decision-making of the College of Presidents of the State to propose a law on amendments and amendments to the Act establishing the Communities and on the determination of their areas, EPA 1645-v, to be discussed after a shorter procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 97th meeting, on 16. 3. In 2011 it decided that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and determining their areas submitted by the group of Members with the first signed Sam Bevko should be dealt with in a simplified procedure. Within a time limit of business, a group of 20 Members, signed by Dr. Luke Yuri, pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, requested the National Assembly to decide on the above-mentioned decision by the College of the President of the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of this request to Dr Luke Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u115	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Your Honor! We have proposed that a decision on the classification of the law after a reduced procedure be decided at the National Assembly, because we believe that, although it is a spatial, textual change in law, it is a substantive and substantive change in the law. This is why it is important to follow a regular procedure. The bill is contrary to the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government, the most obvious contradiction, for example, with the provision recently adopted that the municipality must have at least 5,000 inhabitants. The village of Ankaran, which is proposed for the establishment of a municipality, has not even 3,000 inhabitants. Because of this obvious contradiction to the legal provision adopted recently by the coalition, we believe that such a change should not even be addressed if it already has to follow a regular procedure. Furthermore, we believe that such a municipality is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, namely Article 8 of the Constitution, which provides that laws must be subject to international treaties, Article 64 of the Constitution, which provides that matters relating to the question of the national community shall be decided only upon the consent of those national communities — we know that in the case of Ankara, we do not have the consent of the Italian national community — and contrary to Article 139 of the Constitution, which provides that the municipalities unite a settlement or more settlements where people exercise their common interests. Ankarans and Ankarans are pursuing these common interests as part of the urban design of the town of Koper. Let me tell you again, Ankaran is part of the urban design of the town of Koper, and that makes it as absurd as if we were discussing the establishment of the municipality of Fužina or the municipality of Moste Ljubljana. For this reason, we propose that the National Assembly does not adopt, does not confirm the decision of the President-in-Office of the National Assembly to take this procedure on a regular basis also so that we can have an open general debate where we will jointly determine whether the law is even suitable for further consideration, and also because we will thus satisfy the wishes of all, just all in the National Assembly, so that such a change in law and the establishment of the Ankaran municipality is decided in plenary. If the matter goes on a regular basis and after general consideration, there will be no more possible complications on the committees, on the working bodies, because we will discuss this immediately and directly at the plenary session of the National Assembly. For this reason, the signatories call on the National Assembly to vote against the decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-03-23-SDZ5-Redna-26.ana.u116	Thank you very much. There is no discussion and no explanation for this request. I propose to the Assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law and establishing municipalities and setting up their areas shall be considered in a simplified procedure. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're moving on to decision-making. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 23 votes against 48. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the decision is not adopted and the National Assembly will therefore consider the proposal for a law following a regular procedure. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 122 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the 15-day deadline for the submission of an application for a general discussion on a proposal for a law begins tomorrow. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving on to 24. Period of the day, it's on mental-voluntary matters. Today, the National Assembly will carry out its consideration and decision on a,,, and, sub-paragraphs. We will first consider the conclusion on the termination of the Member's term of office in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on Members On the basis of the third indent of Article 36 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Council of the Republic of Slovenia submitted the following decision: 3. 2011 notes that Mr Srečko Friend is legally sentenced to a non-conditional term of imprisonment longer than 6 months and is therefore terminated by today's term of office in accordance with the third indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 68 votes against 1. [[The vote was 68.]] [[Against one.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission of the decision taken and ask it to inform the National Assembly which candidate or candidate will become a Member or Member for the remainder of the term of office, in accordance with Article 17 of the Law on Elections to the National Assembly, instead of a Member for the remainder of the term of office, who has terminated his term of office. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Committee on Elections of the State will draw up a report on the election and propose the approval of the mandate to a new Member or Member of the State. I thank the former Member for his work in the National Assembly. We move on to the consideration of the Proposal for a Decision appointing a member of the Public Sector Wage System Council The proposal for a decision was submitted to the National Assembly by the Commission of Mandate. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision calling Mr Bojan Kontic to the Public Sector Wage System Council as a representative of the National Assembly. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 72 votes against none. [[The vote was 72.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision was adopted by the National Assembly. We are moving on to the examination of the Conclusion on the termination of the mandate of the Member of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament Zoran Thaler is 22. 3. 3011 informed the National Assembly of its resignation from the function of Member of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament. The notice was addressed by the Commission on Election and Mandate, which proposes to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Article 9 of the Law on Elections of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, Article 9 of the Law on Members be taken into account by the following decision: Member from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, Zoran Thaler, 22. 3. He made a written statement that he resigned from the function of Member of the Republic of Slovenia in the European Parliament. Therefore, in accordance with Article 9 of the Law on the Election of Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament concerning the sixth indent of the first paragraph and the second paragraph of Article 9 of the Law on Members shall terminate the mandate of today. I will immediately inform the National Election Commission and ask it to inform the assembly, which candidate or candidate will be the European Parliament on the basis of the final report on the outcome of the vote and on the outcome of the election of Members and Members from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament, which were seven. 6. 2009, he became a Member or Member from the Republic of Slovenia to the European Parliament for the remainder of the term of office instead of a Member who has terminated his term of office as a result of his resignation. On the basis of a notification from the State Election Commission, the Council of Ministers will draw up a report and propose to the assembly approval of the mandate to a new Member or Member. I can also say that I thank the former MEP for his work so far. This concludes this agenda item, which we will continue on Wednesday, 30. 3. 2011. I am also adjourning the 26th meeting of the National Assembly, which will be resumed at 10 a.m. tomorrow.
