ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 39th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the following Members: Janja Klasinc, Samo Bevk from 15:00 to 19:00 and Marjan Križman. I've invited government representatives to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. You have received the draft agenda by reference to Session 4. 2. 2011, I have not received any proposals for an extension of the agenda. I propose to the National Assembly that the agenda for today's meeting be set by reference. We're moving to the vote. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 65 Members and Members present, 63 votes against none. [[63 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 39th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the law on the free and re-referendum campaign in the framework of the restricted procedure. The proposal was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The word is given by Irma Pavlinič Krebs, Minister of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u2	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. Dear Members and Members! The electoral and referendum campaign law was passed in 2007. The appropriateness of the solutions under this law has been assessed in three parts. First of all, the appropriateness of the regulation regarding the situation of the State Council, when the proposer and the organiser of the referendum campaign, has been assessed by the Constitutional Court, which has indisputably concluded that the arrangements for the Government to make a commitment to the State Council when the organiser and the proposer of the referendum or referendum campaign are inadequate. It may mean arbitrariness, and such arbitration shall not be considered in accordance with the Constitution to the Council of State which has a position under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u3	May I have your attention in the hall?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u4	Another assessment was carried out by the Court of Auditors when it revised the expenditure of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in 2007 when a referendum campaign was carried out in support of the law. The referendum was proposed by the Council of State. At that time, the Court of Auditors used the Government's funds for a note sent by the Government to inform citizens and citizens that the law adopted by the National Assembly was appropriate and considered inappropriate and inconsistent with the Public Finance Act. According to the Court of Auditors' assessment, the government should notify itself as an organiser of the referendum campaign, but it has not done so because the law of this matter does not regulate it sufficiently. The third issue assessed by the Court of Auditors and GRECO — the International Organisation of States United in the Fight against Corruption — is an assessment of those provisions of the law governing the collection of funds and the use of funds for electoral and referendum campaigns. These arrangements were assessed as inadequate and I appointed a working group of experts and representatives of political parties in February 2009 to answer all these questions accordingly. In 2009, there was a law, a new law already in public debate, and in 2010, the Commission President's assessment to prevent corruption appeared that due to the involvement of political parties in capital relations, the appropriateness of the fundraising arrangements for referendum and electoral campaigns should be reconsidered once again, and we expect the law to come to the parliamentary bench in March. However, since we have quite a few important referendum decisions ahead of us, we have estimated that two inappropriate solutions need to be addressed following a reduced procedure. The first is the one established by the Constitutional Court, i.e. inadequately regulated financing of the State Council when it is the proposed referendum. We're handling this properly. Another time. It is clear that when and only when the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has an interest in making its opinion on the suitability of the regulation under the referendum, it is clear that in this case the Government may allocate budgetary resources which are, of course, limited to all budgetary users, a maximum of 25 % of the potential funds spent by law to all other election campaign organisers. These two solutions are, according to the Government's assessment, appropriate, so we suggest you accept them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u6	Thank you very much. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice therefore considered the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign at its 49th meeting, this morning, and at its first meeting this afternoon. The bill was tabled by the Government. We had the following materials: the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, i.e. the draft law itself, the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State Regulations, and I would point out that the report states that we had the opinion of the Commission of the State Council on State Procedure, but that is not true. It is true that this was the opinion of the State Council as a whole. Furthermore, the opinion of the Hungarian National Self-Government and the reply of the Ministry of Public Administration to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u7	Mr. Jelinčič, Mr. Ziherl, Mr. Yuri, Mr. Slapnik, sit down, please!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u8	The representative of the proposer, Mrs Krebs's Minister of Public Administration, has said the things she has said now and very extensively, I think it has been very extensive and I do not need to repeat this. The legislative and legal service with the amendments did not fully agree, but pointed out some of the shortcomings of this bill. The Council of State, Mr Vnučec confirmed the matter, so he said that the Council of State agrees. In the debate, the members and members of the Committee expressed their views on the draft law and, by adopting the amendment of the Committee, at least partially followed the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service concerning the use of the premises of the State authorities for the referendum campaign. The representative of the SLS Group suggested that the Committee should support their amendments and maintain only the part of the novel following the Constitutional Court decision. In the debate, the SDS Group drew attention to the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Ireland, which declared the allocation of budgetary resources for referendum propaganda unlawfully, by interfering with such government funding of the referendum campaign in three constitutional rights, namely equality, freedom of expression and democratic referendum procedures. The Committee has only adopted one amendment, namely an amendment to Article 2, which we have considered to be an amendment to the Committee. The Committee did not adopt the amendment of the SLS Group to Article 1 and the remaining three have therefore become irrelevant. The Committee also voted on all amendments or on the law as a whole, i.e. on amendments and other articles, and adopted them by 8 votes to 7 and the text is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u10	Dear Minister, distinguished president! The proposal explains that the amendment eliminates inconsistencies with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and defines the Government of the Republic of Slovenia more precisely, as well as other organisers of the referendum campaign. The proposed amendments and additions to the Referendum Campaign Act shall be terminated by a decision of the Constitutional Court of the finding of non-compliance in Article 4, paragraph 6. In particular, it is possible to include the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent service, which will be the organizer of the electoral campaign on its behalf and thus enable the Government to participate actively in the referendum campaign. The basic objective that the Government wants to achieve by amending the law is also to eliminate the non-compliance of the law with the provision of adequate budgetary resources to the State Council for the Referendum Campaign. It is only when the Council of State demands a referendum and will be the organiser of an election campaign. The Government will have to allocate these funds to the Council of State if the State Council requests funds, but of course the funds will be allocated within the limits laid down by law. The same story applies to the Government, which the law says the Government can allocate funds for the referendum campaign to the competent government service. The assessment of the financial implications of the draft law is thus not very clear and does not believe that the law will have no additional financial implications for the State budget and other public funds, as it changes the law, not only because of greater clarity and because of the decision of the Constitutional Court, which requires in particular the abolition of the Government's assessment of the allocation of funds to the State Council, but also in the part where the budget is spent more. As the Constitutional Court points out, it is essential for the referendum campaign to provide adequate funding for all candidates for the referendum, whether it is a proposal from the State Council, the National Assembly, 40,000 voters or a third of the Members. However, the position of the Constitutional Court does not agree with the Legislative and Legal Service, which points out that if a group of Members were to have the right to budgetary resources, they should also allocate the same resources to a group of 40,000 voters on exactly the same grounds. This, however, would lead to the situation of three organisers of a referendum campaign eligible for budgetary appropriations. The applicant explains that since the adoption of the law in 2007, the law has been subject to different opinions, which now seem to justify the amendment of the law. The Constitutional Court points to the unconstitutional situation and orders the removal. On this basis, however, the government excuses changes that would allow for an unprivileged position, even though it is always ahead of others. Nor does the Constitutional Court recognise the legitimacy of the proposer, 30 Members for the referendum, which is not the case in the interpretations of the current law. The dispute is also an explanation in that part that speaks of the use of spaces where the Government and the State Council could benefit from their premises but not Members. I hope the amendment corrects that. By now, the government has had the opportunity to use budgetary resources, but only when it comes to a consultative referendum that identifies the opinion of the professional and lay public, but not when it comes to a legislative referendum where the law ends. In view of everything, it is logical that we cannot support the proposal for a law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President, for your word. Nice greetings to the Minister, co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! The Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will confirm the legal changes, as the fundamental objective that the proposer seeks to achieve by amending the law is to eliminate the non-compliance of the law with the Constitution in that part concerning the provision of adequate budgetary resources to the State Council for the Referendum Campaign and thus to ensure the effective implementation of its constitutional tasks by the State Council. For constitutionally inadmissible, the Constitutional Court of the Republic of Slovenia has ruled that the funds of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia for the referendum campaign defined by the law shall be decided by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on an open basis. Once the proposed amendment has been implemented, the Government will have to grant these funds if the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia requests them, but at the same time the Government will not be able to allocate less resources to the State Council than it will require until it requires them within or at the level of a statutory restriction. Since the circle of natural and legal persons that may be the organisers of the electoral campaign is already very open, the bill makes it possible for the government or its competent service to be the organizer of the referendum campaign, and the government must decide for itself that its government service will be the organizer of the referendum campaign. The Government, as the main proponent of laws and as the entity responsible for operating in all areas of the country, must therefore certainly have the opportunity to participate actively in the referendum campaign, including the use of certain budgetary resources. This will enable all stakeholders interested in the outcome of the referendum to participate in the campaign itself, thus ensuring greater transparency of the referendum campaign, as it will give everyone the opportunity to participate in the referendum campaign under the same legal conditions. The amendment of the law thus also eliminates the ambiguity that has been shown recently in the implementation of the referendums in the work relating to the identification of entities which may be organisers of the referendum campaign. The bill also explicitly includes the Government of the Republic of Slovenia among those entities which are organisers of the referendum campaign. Given that most of the referendums we have in Slovenia are due to the decision on laws drawn up by the government, in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club we believe that the Government must have the right in every way to participate in the referendum campaign in a transparent, legal, pre-arranged and prescribed manner, and in particular to stand for the laws it has proposed and that it also advocates their best solution for the interests of citizens and citizens in the campaign. The use of budgetary resources which the Government may make for a referendum campaign for itself when it is an organiser of a referendum campaign or the amount allocated to the Council of State where it so requires is predetermined and limited. According to the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, the proposal of the law itself does not depart from the principles that have already been taken into account in the drafting of the law and that is why we will support them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajn.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u14	Your Honor! We will support amendments and additions to the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. The fundamental objective that the applicant seeks to achieve under this law is to eliminate the non-compliance with the constitution in work relating to the provision of adequate budgetary resources to the State Council for the referendum campaign. The government, as the main proponent of the law and as an entity, will also be involved in the referendum campaign. The Constitutional Court has determined by decision that the sixth paragraph of Article 4 is inconsistent with the Constitution if it relates to the Council of State. But this is about extension. The Council of State must ensure that it can also participate actively in the referendum campaign. It is essential that adequate resources are also provided for the campaign of the State Council. The government can't decide on an open mind. The provision of these funds must therefore not depend on the discretionary decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. However, in order to avoid possible ambiguities, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the competent government service should also be explicitly allowed to participate actively in the referendum campaign, as well as as the responsible organizer of the electoral campaign.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Miran Potrč.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u16	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! In particular, thank you to Mr. Tonet Anderlich for his warning. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the bill. We are convinced that the law follows the findings of the Constitutional Court regarding the position of the State Council in the system of financing the referendum campaign as well as the position of the Court of Auditors as regards the position of the Government in the same system. In opening, let me say that in the Group of Social Democrats we are not particularly pleased with the regulation of the referendum and, as a result, the referendum campaign in our legal system. We are convinced that the extremely wide scope of the call for proposals and the implementation of the referendum raises a number of issues, which are therefore also linked to the financing of the referendum campaign. For this reason, it seems to us that the proposal that we are considering today is only the most necessary in this field of position and decision-making of the National Assembly. However, we expect the Government and all parliamentary parties to be more serious and more comprehensive to discuss other issues of the referendum and its campaign. The State Council, the proposal, as prepared in the proposed content, supports. At the same time, he points out that perhaps all questions are not settled in an appropriate manner. It wonders whether, in the light of the rights and obligations of the Council of State and the Government, 30 Members and Members should also be provided with the necessary position where, as a minority in the National Assembly, they propose a referendum and 40,000 elections and voters when they request a referendum. In the Group of Social Democrats, we consider the warnings of the Legal and Legislative Services to be mainly warnings that will have to be addressed in another case. He's not asking us to settle this today. I don't think it's possible to do that in this law today. We should think carefully about how these groups should be organised in order to ensure funding, adequate organisation and supervision of this funding. We therefore believe that the regulation, as proposed in the law, is necessary, also in terms of the position of the Government. In any way, questions about its role may be raised, we believe in the Group of Social Democrats, and we are convinced that the Government has an interest, even when it is a bill-maker, and when it gives certain opinions to laws prepared by Members and Members, that its views are taken into account in the legislative procedure, but if the legislative procedure fails to take account, it has an interest in the public to communicate its views in the event of a referendum. It must therefore be declared an organiser of the electoral campaign. In order to co-finance them, however, the Court of Auditors considers that it must have the possibility to do so provided for in the law itself. If we are to consider some other issues in the legislative process, we propose in the Group of Social Democrats that they be discussed in other and later legislative procedures, and today that we adopt the content of the law as it is prepared and as it has been supplemented in the home working body.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u18	Dearly beloved everyone, also on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we would be extremely pleased if we had more so-called meetings of the National Assembly than emergency meetings, which would be fully devoted to economic measures to revive the Slovenian economy. Regrettably, this meeting was convened in a completely different way; it was a matter of regulating matters related to the election and referendum campaign with one of the congregations, and only subsequently came along with one law from the economic field, which is harmful. It is only in this way that we can see that the government is consistent in its policy, which is disastrous for the economy. Even when we are talking about the draft law on the electoral referendum campaign, which the government's summary procedure is justified by the fact that it is only a matter of achieving content in accordance with the Constitutional Court's decision, we can see that this is about the same as the former joke of Radio Yerevan during the period of real socialism. In this too, we can see some consistency in the policy below. In fact, if the Government justifies that this law is necessary for the timely and consistent implementation of what is ordered by the Constitutional Court, then we can find that we should accept it sometime in 2009, and now it is 2011. That's not consistent with the decision. As far as the procedure is concerned, such a procedure and urgency and an extraordinary meeting were not justified. And second, of course, it must be noted that, under the cover of the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision in favour of the State Council, the Government is in fact placing itself in a privileged position against certain other constitutional candidates for the referendum. As with the Government and its eligibility to spend public funds when it comes to a referendum, of course, the matter is clear. The government has many levers of power, many pathways to the media that no other candidate has and cannot have. Moreover, the Government itself cannot at all be a candidate for a referendum. Under the Constitution, there are 40 thousand voters, at least 30 MEPs and members of the National Assembly, the entire State Assembly with a decision or the Council of State. These are the proponents, while the government is not among them. From this point of view, it is quite unusual for the government to push itself together, attach a pot, some would say a golido, to what the Constitutional Court has already come to the benefit of the State Council. But what's even more embarrassing is that this is about taxpayers' money, which the government is already spending on various forms of public information, anyway. As is the case, one fine precedent is that of the Irish Government in 1995 in the Supreme Court of Ireland, where it was explicitly found that the government was in breach of the Constitution by spending public money on the enforcement of only one of its positions. So what's the problem? If, everywhere in these provisions proposed by the Government, the applicants of the request for a referendum were to come forward, their proposal would probably still drink water in terms of constitutionality and legality and the principle of equality before the law. Thus, together, one of the candidates made a request for a referendum, which is therefore the constitutional proposal for a referendum, and the Government, which has, as it were said, other levers of power, also has a 'topil' in its hands. The government, when it shares money, of course, people need to know that they don't share money that would come out of the sky, but that before it reaches into his pocket and then divides what it took a little earlier from the "touch" of taxpayers. This is a problem that we are facing today and at a time when savings should be made when various forms of activity should be encouraged to revive the Slovenian economy, such a waste that puts the government in a privileged position in the SDS Group will certainly not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u20	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! As the predecessors have already said, today we are considering this amendment of the law because the Constitutional Court has found that the sixth paragraph of Article 4 of the Law on Elections and Referendums has been inconsistent with the Constitution in its work, which refers only to the Council of State. As this requirement for a legislative referendum realizes its constitutional right or competence can be actively involved in the legislative or referendum procedure. On this basis, cooperation must be ensured and it must be able to inform and inform voters. On the basis of this, it is therefore essential to provide it with adequate resources. Of course, the State Council must not raise funds for this information by any stakeholders, so this is the budget. The bill that is before us today regulates this. Of course, we might say, on the other hand, that this disharmony could be eliminated if we took away this power from the Council of State to propose a referendum, but this is a matter, as has already been said, of another debate that we are not withdrawing from in the Group of Members. However, this proposal also includes the Government. And why is that? In most cases, the Government is therefore responsible for the adoption and enforcement of the proposed law and is often interested in the outcome of the referendum, even when it comes not only to saying so, but also to the ordinary law which determines our international ties. Such a case was the referendum on the entry into the European Union and NATO. The proposal for a law, to avoid ambiguities, explicitly places the Government or its services among the organisers of the referendum campaign and thus allows them to participate actively in the referendum campaign. It is difficult to accept these flat-rate assessments, which have also been made for this speaker, that the Government has the power, influence and otherwise participate in the referendum campaign, in one way or another. The one who advocates this is the two legal states, somewhere one rule applies to the Government, and of course the other rules apply to all other organisers of the referendum campaign. It is true, however, that there are precedents when governments have unlawfully interfered with the referendum campaign. One of the most obvious of these is, and this was also found by the Court of Auditors, the 2007 campaign, when we went citizens and citizens to a referendum on the property transformation of insurance companies. At that time, the government issued, the former government, that of course, we now understand each other, the parcels in order, as the Court of Auditors has determined, to influence how voters will decide. In short, the cases of illegal practice are considerable in our country, and the previous government is one of the most important things to say, so to speak, 'light cases', which has done so publicly. That is why things need to be regulated by this law, just as logical things have to be. It must be acknowledged that there are so many different referendums among the possible qualified candidates of the referendum, which our legislation knows quite well, that the Government is not among them, and probably because there are so many different candidates. Hand to heart, the referendum has actually become some sort of sixth reading of the law. We meet three times as Members of the National Assembly, then we vote on everything together, we decide again, it is said that the fifth is already under consideration, Members and Members, once again when we decide on the procrastination veto, and the last step is to say,'sixth reading of the law.' And since that is the case, it would probably be logical that the drafter of the law also has a right in the sixth reading to present his arguments, because under similar conditions as all others involved. The fact remains that the Institute of Referendum has become a frequent target of abuse and no longer serves its original purpose. In the Group of Members, we do not really want to deprive anyone of the right to a referendum, but at least 40,000 voters, but we are convinced that this institution should be regulated as soon as possible, and we have also expressed this willingness publicly and not only to change the legislation, perhaps even the constitution, if necessary, but the responses of those who prefer and speak the most out loudly are unfortunately not. So it is doubtful whether the purpose is indeed to regulate this area or not. To say that the government does not deserve to be able to say and finance here, after all, even its arguments in the campaign, is similar to saying that, say, coalition parliamentary groups do not need professional co-workers, because the government is our coalition, because we have enough professional staff there and that they have this right only and only opposition parliamentary groups. Of course this is not the case, so the proposed solutions in the law in the Group of Members do indeed support this because they eliminate the found unconstitutionality and illegality by the Constitutional Court and the Court of Auditors and provide for a transparent way for the Government to participate in the referendum campaign. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] This is also limited. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, president, minister, nice greeting! The initial purpose and purpose of the proposed law amending and supplementing the Law on Elections and Referendum Campaigns was, in accordance with the decision of the Constitutional Court, to eliminate the non-compliance of the law in this part with regard to the provision of adequate budgetary resources to the Council of the State of Slovenia for the referendum campaign. The government has simply exploited this original intention and the purpose of the amendment of the law and has improperly planted its part as a coward's egg in order to obtain additional funds for its operation. This was not only a finding of the Slovenian People's Party and opposition today on the committee, but also a finding of the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. That is why we have already expected on the Committee today that the Minister will define herself to the position of the Legislative and Legal Service, in the sense that she will say that they no longer support this law that they have cooked. The legislative and legal service has made it clear and clear that if the Government is already subduing itself as a cowardly egg in this law, then, in accordance with the possibility of those who, by law and by constitution, are eligible candidates for various referendums, both 30 Members and 40,000 voters, should also consider them. The government went even further, in its opinion, stating that Members do not have a constitutional position because 30 Members are not a state body. The legal and legal service responded by simply failing to give the government the right. The government brought its cowardly egg into this law solely for the purpose of preparing conditions so that it would have additional money for government referendum campaigns. Secondly, in order to strengthen its priority from other stakeholders in the referendum campaign or otherwise, to weaken the conditions for democratic campaigning with additional money. We have been in the Slovenian People's Party and we will be against all the declines in the standards of democracy. And since this case is about lowering the standards of democracy, we will be against this law. Despite the fact that he is leading us into some trap with regard to compliance with the Constitutional Court's decision, but with this cowardly egg actually brings the law again, in our opinion, into an unconstitutional position, that is, from one unconstitutional position to another. The government has its opportunity to present the law itself, both through a government representative and through representatives of ministries, and also to involve all actors involved in certain legislation. In this case, it is clear that it is nothing more than an easy task for him to draw money from the budget in particular. That is why we have prepared an amendment for legal treatment in the Slovenian People's Party, where we leave the government the possibility to participate in the campaign but without additional money. Without taking it this way, you will take it to those who already have nothing. They used to say, where there's nothing, the army doesn't take it, and that government takes it there.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague! The proposal for an electoral and referendum campaign will be supported by Members of the DeSUS, as it comes first of all to an urgent change. It shall address the consequences of the failure to comply with the law in the work relating to the provision of adequate budgetary resources to the State Council for the referendum campaign. In this part, the amendment of the law follows the decision of the Constitutional Court and enables the Council of State to exercise its constitutional competence in the work relating to the referendum initiative and its associated campaign and its financing. In the second part of the amendment of the law, it is a supplement that includes the organisation of the referendum campaign and the Government, as a result, is granted the right to participate in the financing of this campaign, as will undoubtedly be the case for the Council of State from now on. Of course, it is funding within the legal limits laid down for public-law persons, namely the ceiling of a quarter of the eligible cost of a total amount of 25 cents per electoral beneficiary. In view of this, it will, as a rule and in practice, be the amount of resources sufficient to provide basic voter information on the referendum issue, such as for the production and launch of the parcel to households. Given that there are dilemmas and objections to the Government participating in the referendum campaigns, let me say that in the DeSUS Group we also support the law in this work and will vote in favour of the law, even though we have some concerns ourselves. We have estimated that if the Government wants to carry out its reforms and enforce individual laws, it must be actively involved in the referendum event, no matter what government it is. The Government is the one who leads the policy, acts on behalf of the State and is responsible for the implementation of the objectives set from the beginning to the end of the legitimate legislative path. However, the fact is that this does not always end with the approval of the law in the National Assembly, since different legal institutions such as the referendum requirement, for example, delay the application of legal provisions. As we say, we will contribute to the DeSUS Group in spite of our expressed concern for the adoption of the proposed novel, as the Government can legitimately participate in the referendum campaign, according to our assessment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u25	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Ambassadors and the amendment of the SDS Group. The amendments are substantively identical, so we will discuss them together, and we will vote together later. I'm asking you to sign up. Anybody want to talk? I'm asking you to sign up. The word is by Franz Pukšič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u26	As I have already said in the position of the Slovenian People's Party that we have prepared for Article 2 of the amendment, the second and third paragraphs are deleted. The reason is that with this amendment the government remains as a possible co-organizer in the electoral campaign, but it cannot use money in particular. Now I am specific to citizens and citizens to know what kind of money it is. This is a 100,000-euro circus for every referendum campaign, and so much money has been spent by the largest political parties on large referendum campaigns, such as this agreement with Croatia, an arbitration agreement where we have lost or will lose such a part of Slovenian territory. Second. Look at why we're opposed to this. A referendum campaign has not yet begun, and the Ministry of Labour, the family, has already issued a piece about a small job that the circus has already spent 6,000 euros on. Of course, the ministries and the government have enough money to co-operate in one way or another with various materials and before the campaign actually starts, which is also incorrect in our opinion and is not in accordance with the principles of democracy, but only with the principles of political culture. Although today is one day after a cultural holiday, we would expect to think something about culture today, but not just once a year, then we are big words, and the next day we are going through it all. Look, the government is supposed to be, the Government of Citizens and Citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. The government consists only of a coalition, that is, those who form a coalition in the National Assembly. However, the government should take into account the interests of all citizens and citizens. If a referendum campaign happens, of course, the government can also normally cooperate through its coalition parties, where, of course, their ministers, acting on behalf of the political party that has declared the campaign, also interpret their views, i.e. the government's views, which are also financed by political parties. However, political parties are, of course, also financed by tax money. This means that it is unfair and undemocratic that the government should have the resources to do so in particular. In particular, as I mentioned earlier, not even 30 Members have the option, or 40,000 voters and voters, to get to the budget money. The fact is that the government has a lot of opportunity to explain to citizens and citizens in the entire legal procedure why this proposal by the Government is good, through government press representatives, through press representatives from ministries and, of course, other government services. And one more thing; at these press conferences – have you ever seen a government press conference that one or two journalists would come to? This is not the case – the media are coming to the government press conferences. Why are they coming? Because the Government is mainly a proponent of the legislative process and because the Government has enforcement power and real power through coalition Members. Therefore, other groups or opposition often have excellent, good proposals, but they do not reach citizens and citizens because they are not covered by the media. Why don't they cover them? For a simple reason, because, of course, the opposition can only warn, but it does not have the executive power to change certain things. If you continue to rule as you do for a long time, or because you will not be for long, but if you continue to rule as you do, then it will happen that in a short time you will land on that side when you have press conferences, journalists will walk past you and of course will not ask you, because they will know that you will no longer have any executive power, and of course also where you have brought this country. Finally, if it were correct and in principle, it would be for the Government to draw up a law in order to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, but not as I said, to plant its cowardly egg. But if this "instigation" of hers helped in what step the economy, payment discipline, unemployment reduction and so on, one would understand. But this government's "instigation" of the cowardly egg only helps citizens and citizens to be taken at least €100,000 at each referendum, instead of going to other projects, programmes, whatever. I'm afraid you're even going to take this money from the municipalities or from the regional development items, so unfortunately, you're changing the Regional Development Act. Although it is stated in our Article 2 of the Constitution that power has a people, we could say that this is not the case. In fact, we have the power of a privileged lobby. It's the same money. The government has power, it takes more than the law and the constitution. So, he's still taking it, it's the same money, which means he wants to be in the kind where special lobbyists are special privilege. By adopting our amendment you will, I will say, put down one black dot, that you do not care about anything other than money and damage to citizens and citizens in addition to any referendum campaign. We will therefore support the amendment to Article 2 in the Slovenian People's Party. We hope that there is still some sense in the National Assembly that the government will remain campaigning in this way. I also expect the Minister to define that it is enough that they do not need money for this particular purpose, because the government has a press representative through the budget and so on and through the ministries and, clearly, through political parties, which are also financed from the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u27	Thank you very much. The word is "Victory" by the Elinčič Noble.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u28	Thank you very much, Mr. President. This is another of those laws when the government in every way wants to seize a greater opportunity to influence public opinion than it actually does, despite the fact that the government has every opportunity to say what it wants to say. If we are looking at, say, in the last half-year of what I know, what Mr Pahor has told us at his press conferences, be assured that he will also be able to tell us about this, this matter, or any other matter concerning the referendum, whatever and to whatever extent he wishes. So I don't know why the government is afraid and is still trying to secure an extra place and extra money in here. Because where the government wrote that the bill would have no additional financial implications for the state budget and other public funds, then one wonders why it should then be written that they should not spend more than 25% of that. Yeah, what if it's not made of something? If they say that there will be no additional financial consequences, this means either that there is already so much money spent today that there will be nothing more, or they intend to guarantee here some financial means that they will not take from anywhere else. In short, it's a very incomplete marriage, and in fact, although some say that I don't know how big I would say a section of an intelligent quota in Parliament, but for such stupid people we don't have to have, anyway. That really doesn't work. In view of the fact that the Government has written such nonsense, and after all, we can descend into other inconsistencies when, for example, the Government itself speaks here, that in Article 4, paragraph 1, the words "pre-election meetings are not allowed" are replaced by the words "voluntary campaign is not allowed". But if we go to look at those articles that change and look at in the same Article 4, then we see that already in the existing law in the third paragraph, which does not change, but which only becomes the fourth, it already says: "exceptionally it is allowed to organise pre-election meetings at the premises referred to in paragraph 1 of this Article" and so on. What pre-election meetings will we organize at certain locations, but if, in the first paragraph of the same article, pre-election meetings are banned and replaced by an election campaign? Should the government, however, decide whether it should be exact, whether it is pre-election meetings or an election campaign? If pre-election meetings are prohibited, they shall also be prohibited in the third paragraph of the same Article, not only in the first. Well, funny thing is, things like this happen, but unfortunately this is happening to our government. And the present fourth paragraph also states that it is used to organize pre-election meetings. Yeah, well, write all over the election campaign, not pre-election meetings. Although the question is also whether the term electoral campaign is correct, because the electoral campaign means that we are discussing the matter in which we love. You can love someone, you can't vote for something unless you "love," like in Serbian, if you "love" something, let's say there can be a broader concept, there you can also like to say bulmastifes after all, but you can't possibly vote for Members or in referendum decisions you can't do about Bulmastifs, for once, I hope not, Madonna. Has there been a change? That would be possible, too. It is also interesting that how the government will pay its own fair price with that 25% of the money, let's say the referendums that it will propose and which will be predetermined to go through. We know such cases, and we know how the government has already served through this law the use and misuse of financial resources and achieved what it wanted. But now there will be something else, or in view of the current situation in the country, and given how money works especially with taxpayers’ money, we can think that some people, certain companies, will slowly open their tentacles here, filling their pockets. What a percentage of those 25% will go into their pockets, how much they will be guaranteed by this business, and again we will not know, because in court this will never be dealt with in any way, because for the first time the prosecution will reject it if the prosecution does not reject it, they will find that it is insufficiently justified and that the police have not done it all, but if all this goes through, the court will say no fault. If it doesn't get old before then. Once again, however, how will the Government be able to separate, say, a statement by the President of the Government at his usual conference, which he will declare as a weekly, monthly or daily introduction to the event or at a conference devoted to, say, a certain referendum issue. Because it's no problem, he'll be able to tell the press when he pays them that coffee, if he's still paying them, he'll say, "Listen, let me ask you something about the referendum" and then he'll have a long and wide spread every day over and over again, every day in that press conference that won't officially have anything to do with the referendum. Then he will have another special conference on the referendum theme, where he will, of course, say the same thing, because he will not be able to do so. In short, the law is also incomplete, indecisive and essentially determines some strange things that the State Council, which no one knows what is doing in our system and there is no other than the rest of some sociorealist transfer through a bad copy machine from the former Assembly to the State Council, will have to do such a state council to be humble and to do what we say, and then it will be possible for the State Council to have its variants and the government will have its variants, but, of course, a competent government service will be created within the Government, which will employ 15, 20 friends who will draw the entire mandate to sit and warm their seats. I don't know what we're doing in this country. Every day we get sicker, every day people have less to eat, every day there are fewer employees, every day there are more foreigners, every day foreigners have more rights in Slovenia. Don't you read foreign newspapers? Read what Cameron said in England, in Munich at the conference. Well, look what Merklov's saying. Do we always have to stand behind everyone else for 5, 6, 7 years? I thought we stopped doing this in the former regime, in the former country, when we copied the worst that could be copied. But I can see that the current government is doing this with an even bigger elan and even more consistently to copy things when they're long gone out there, but if it's copying quickly, it's rapidly copying what's wrong. I don't know, but at the end of the day, maybe the Prime Minister will tell us when he gets back from America what was nice up there and how Barack Obama gave him a good time and grabbed both hands, and he'll forget to tell us that Barack Obama probably came from the bathroom when he washed his hands and said, "Well, Borut how did you...?"
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u29	Mr. Jelinčič, no [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u30	Yeah. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u31	However, stay within one limit of dignity. [[...]] Please. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u32	Mr President [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u33	It went away. [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u34	Mr President, I returned yesterday from Israel and tell you that there is a Parliament there and that everyone can say what he wants and what he thinks, for this is supposed to be a democracy. And I must say that Israel has practically hostile states around it and is in constant trouble that something will happen, and yet they allow people to say what they think. And they also let someone in the auditorium cry out, and no one take away his word, but leave him. It's just Parliamentarianism. In Slovenia we are still under the influence of old times or increasingly under the influence of old times, when, apparently, we should not say anything more. Well, let me finish. After all, we will support both amendments, even though it is the same thing. I don't think we should make such a mistake to support this law. For if nothing else, dear gentlemen of the current coalition, there will be an election in a year and a half. Despite this law, you will lose the election, and when you are in opposition, you will cry out loud to the devil and shout what we have done. This has already happened with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, which was adopted by your coalition at the time, and in the previous term, you have been seriously complaining that there is no more time to say than just those 3 minutes. This will be another such matter — then write it all down to yourself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u35	Thank you very much. The word is France Tsukati.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u36	Thank you for your word. Well, there's quite a few questions about this marriage. First of all, why do we go to the emergency session on our noses? The excuse we hear from the proponents is that it is necessary to arrange and make possible funding for the State Council when it enters the referendum or is a candidate for the referendum. As I know, there is no referendum to be launched by the State Council. However, there are referendums launched by civil society for the Small Work Act, including pension legislation and so on. There is no need for the State Council to make the budget available to the public right now for the referendum campaign. But there's something else in this marriage. Mr. Ambassador was talking about a cowardly egg. Well, I'd say it's not a coward's egg, it's a government that's attached its pot. This law places the Government as a beneficiary of the budget for the referendum campaign. She's in a hurry, and she's really in a hurry, because these referenda are right in front of us. It seems to me that in this part it is necessary to say whether the approach is good or not. The legislative referendum is only a correction mechanism of the legislative authority. A correction mechanism that prevents any stupidity that the National Assembly would trigger when an inappropriate law is enacted, when inappropriate provisions are adopted in a particular law and so forth. So this correction is, after a halt, given to the State Council with a veto and a request for a referendum and civil society. This is the last instance where the people have authority, and the last word the people have at the referendum, possibly in the face of some nonsense that the National Assembly would have caused by the adoption of a wrong or a bad law. And the government has nothing to do here. In drafting the law, the Government has the opportunity to consult civil society, test the will of the people, and legal discussion with the social partners and the Economic and Social Council is also legal, allowing for a real solution that would go through any referendum without problem. Once the law has passed through the legislative procedure, however, the government is expected to step aside and let voters decide if a referendum is required. This hygiene, this political culture is famous in Europe. Some countries that have once allowed the government to use taxpayers' funds and enter referendum propaganda, because it is propaganda, propaganda material, it costs, jumbo posters cost, and so on, those countries have also stepped in years ago and found that this is not appropriate. The case of Ireland has already been mentioned. In 1995, the Irish Supreme Court found that the government was in breach of the Constitution by spending public money on the enforcement of only one position. For sure, in the referendum campaign, the government represents one position, those who requested a referendum, another position, or, as was the case, in the case of an arbitration agreement, the government represented one position and half of the Slovenian people took another position and the government took a firm and firm stand on the side of that half which supported the arbitration agreement. In such a case, and this Supreme Court of Ireland finds, the government is becoming party-defined. It is no longer the government of all the inhabitants, and it is no wonder that under the arbitration agreement, if you have followed, the government's ratings have fallen dramatically, because half of the Slovenians no longer felt that it was their government, felt no longer, and I do not think that this is good. Of course, as was the case in Ireland, we would also like to see that the government in a dignified manner does not define so firmly the issues which the Slovenians share. No, no, no. Let the others do it. Let the parties do so, let the Council of State do so, let the referendum do so, not by the Government, but above all by the President of the State, should not be so selectively defined. Of course, it is no wonder that not half of the government is being held in such a state, but three quarters of the Slovenians do not feel that it is their government. Then you wonder why. The Supreme Court of Ireland further prohibited the spending of public money to support only one party or one party in the referendum. The Court based such a decision on the view that, contrary to the principle of equality, it would be contrary to a fair procedure. Of course, we do not expect one such, I would say, political culture to prevail so that those who are really, I would say, the most responsible for this country in political places would feel it, but it is not. And the court is likely, our Constitutional Court, to produce something like that. I'm sorry that there's always such a low cultural level. So we're talking about a legislative referendum. As I mentioned on the committee, I would not mind if the government actively participated in the consultation referendum before the government introduced the law into the National Assembly and there were no public debates at that time, then this people would also like to hear the government's position, perhaps some propaganda material – but only a consultation referendum – would be included. Once the law has been passed in the National Assembly, however, it is a matter of electorate and civil society. And even if the Council of State, which implements this constitutional correction of the legislature by veto and referendum, should also be allowed to participate in the referendum, certainly. As the Legislative and Legal Service has pointed out, the 30 members of the National Assembly requiring a referendum should have the same opportunity to hold a referendum – that is, budgetary resources as well, of course, this proposal does not see it and the coalition has not seen it in order to follow the legislative and legal service's request. So here are the positions and the Government, which wants to keep all the mechanisms with the tax means to the end, even until the referendum, until the outcome of the referendum, that is to say, the funds that opponents of the individual law pay in the budget are angry at me and this proposal is a disgrace to this government. At least that's what I think and a lot of other people.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u37	Thank you very much. She asked Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u38	Thank you very much. The words on this government's shameful proposal, the damage to tax money and more serious charges against the current government have been made both on the committee and today. And the most perverse thing is that the ones that I'm going to prove with an argument that they've done any of this. But since I always want to argue and object to discussions with arguments, I would firstly like to argue with two explanations, which the two parliamentary groups, SLS and SDS, have submitted to the same amendment, namely to delete the Government as a possible organiser of the electoral campaign and which may devote to a certain amount limited resources for the electoral campaign if it is interested in the outcome of the referendum. The first amendment, it is said, explains the SLS Group's explanation in the direction: In 30 days when the electoral campaign is available, the government has many indirect ways of addressing people about the appropriateness of the law it has proposed. Let him use these paths, if I summarise, the explanation given under the amendment of the SLS Group. On the other hand, the SDS explains that, however, this government could have gained as much political culture as follows from the decision of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Ireland, which provided that the government uses public money to enforce only one of its views violates the Constitution. I mean, I'd like to ask you to read what we're doing today. We are changing the regime in which the Government in the Republic of Slovenia in 2007 did not allow the use of public money to the State Council as a proposal for a referendum to present its position alone. The Constitutional Court does not say that this must not be in accordance with the Constitution – the use of public money to present the position of the applicant, which in our case was the State Council in 2007. He said, "not in accordance with the Constitution, because the government can give, allocates public funds for the referendum campaign of the State Council." And please do not deceive Slovenian viewers and viewers, possibly this transmission, so that we are not able to comply with the constitution if the Government makes funds available to one to express one opinion, namely, the taxpayer's money. The Constitutional Court said, "must commit, not in accordance with the Constitution if the Government can arbitrate". Therefore, the argument put forward under the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party does not hold back the actual Slovenian regime and the decision of the Slovenian Constitutional Court. I will answer everything else with a story, because it seems to me that I will only be able to explain difficult arguments enough plasticly. In 2007, the Council of State proposed a referendum against the proposal. On a proposal from the Government, the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Property Change Act was adopted. The government was a bill-maker, it was adopted by the National Assembly, the State Council proposed a referendum. What was the situation? The government at that time, despite the provisions of the law that we now have to amend as a result of the Constitutional Court's decision, that the Government may allocate funds for the referendum campaign where the candidate for the referendum is the budgetary user, the State Council of the funds it has requested. That's why he turned to the Constitutional Court. However, the current government did the following: the Government of the Republic of Slovenia issued a communication note. He addressed the household with it and addressed it, explaining the reasons behind the proposed law. So let the people at the referendum confirm the law, which, at the proposal of the Council of State, will be judged. This conduct of the Government was assessed by the Court of Auditors in the course of its audit of the Draft Final Account of the Republic of Slovenia for 2007. I ask you, those who do not believe that you will listen to the two paragraphs in this report from the Court of Auditors, to see that the Government must not carry out directly within 30 days of the holding of the referendum campaign, any activities which the Referendum Act defines as a referendum campaign, namely, in the third paragraph of Article 1, "The referendum campaign is advertising content and other forms of propaganda which are intended to influence the decision-making of the referendum." So, whatever the President of the Government at the press conference says, and the government or its service is not the organizer of the electoral campaign, there are acts that interfere with the advertising content that is at that time controversial. The Court of Auditors defined the conduct of the then government at the referendum as follows: "The Office of the Government of Communications has ordered the formation, printing and distribution of the memo at the legislative referendum on the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Property Change of Insurance. The total cost of issuing the invoice amounted to EUR 70 000 167 and the funds were provided by the Office of the Government from the regular activities of the Office and paid from budget item 1322 – Direct communication of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia with the public and government information campaign". The Court of Auditors says: "The Office of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia has not acted in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Article 1 of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act," I read earlier, which sets out what a referendum campaign is, i.e. "advertising content and other forms of propaganda intended to influence the decision-making of voters and voters." In fact, the Court of Auditors concludes: "The case does not directly state the decision to support the amendment of the law, not against it, but undoubtedly affects the decision of the electorate and the electorate. Some of the dilemmas in the amendment of the law, highlighted by the State Council on the other hand, have been rejected." In short, the Court of Auditors has concluded that it is clear in the case that there is support for amending the law and thus the intention to influence the electorate. The Court of Auditors continues: "The government has not formally declared a referendum campaign, but its conduct is one of such activities. In accordance with the first paragraph of Article 3 of the Law on Elections and Referendum Campaigns, the referendum campaign may be organised by the proposer of the referendum and others for the outcome of the referendum by interested parties. The applicant was the State Council, other interested entities are listed as taxing, namely citizens, individuals, independent entrepreneurs and all legal and natural persons established in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia who have an interest in the outcome of the referendum", concludes the Court of Auditors. The Office of the Government for Communication does not belong in any of the above categories and the referendum campaign should not be organised or sent away. So it was an illegal spending of taxpayers' money. In the debate on the Committee, I have made it very clear that every single government, if you like, is always in a situation where, in your opinion, there is nothing else to be silent about during the referendum campaigns. The fundamental question is whether to declare and give voters and voters at least the basic content, at least the basic recommendation, why she proposed a law in the public interest for the adoption of the National Assembly. You will all admit that in Article 4 of the Election Campaign organisers, the law defines immensely broad. In fact, any natural person in that country or any legal person having an interest, i.e. interested in the outcome of the referendum, one or the other, may be notified as an organiser of the referendum campaign. Everyone else, if you want, associations, unions, NGOs, all the initiators have the right to finance a referendum campaign in the amount of EUR 400 000, currently set, with various forms of advertising. Not just that. Of course, they are obliged by our regulations to invite the media equally as organisers to present their views. The government does not have this option under current legislation, because it cannot be an organiser of an election campaign. The places where they can organise -for trade unions are also certain opportunities for them to organise in working organisations where they present arguments for their members as organisers for what they tend to do in the context of the referendum campaign. For religious communities too, a referendum campaign can be carried out where the religious community is a proponent in a religious community where religious activity is carried out. All of them can raise funds from donors on a four-fold scale than those that are budget users. The existing law sets out as organisers of an electoral campaign, which are budgetary consumers of actually three legal persons of public law. On the basis of a proposal of an existing one which does not change, the municipality may allocate funds for a referendum campaign where it defends a decision of 25 % of the eligible amount of costs. Just like the government. Yes, you can. The legal person of public law for the whole territory of the Republic of Slovenia shall be the State, on its behalf exercising the powers, rights and obligations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. In the municipality, which can also organise a referendum campaign, the municipal authorities are doing so when they defend a proposal for a visa of public initiatives that initiate an assessment and a declaration of citizens and citizens for a specific municipal regulation. So the existing arrangement allows the municipality exactly the same position as today, with the proposal we regulate for the Government. For the Council of State, however, the word "may" must not be retained, but the undisputed Constitutional Court says that when the referendum is proposed, the Government must provide the appropriate means to present its views to the Slovenian public, who will decide on the referendum. In short, with these arguments, I deny that the Government is establishing a privileged position. I argue that such regulation will make the regulation transparent, for with the opposite argument given today that the Government, with its current activities, which are so privileged when it can come to the media when it can address people, could use a referendum campaign for such types of covert advertising without applying as an organiser significantly more resources. Something from the ministries, a little from work and so on. That's imprudent. It is right that all persons of public law, the municipality, on behalf of the Government and the Council of State, where they take part in referendum campaigns, as interested in the outcome of the referendum or as proponents in this case, are in the same position as when it comes to the use of taxpayers' money. And in the 2007 case, it is clear that for a single case with which the arguments in support of the law can be presented, these funds can only be used in full for this mode of information; since then, the postage has been substantially raised in 2007, and these 100,000 Euros are guaranteed today if the Government so decided in a particular case, only the printing and distribution of one parcel to all Slovenian households. Nothing can be financed by these funds anymore, probably not at the local level. In short, as proposed today, I hope that it will be adopted, eliminates the unconstitutional situation and indeterminate arrangements that it has generated in the work of governments in the past, which the Court of Auditors has considered inappropriate not to say anything more.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u39	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Look, I always like to simplify things, and this time I will. The amendment, Mr President, which we have tabled, I will support if it is not adopted and not by law. Let's simplify things. Look, if a group of cultural people were to talk about this marriage, I'd say it's extremely uncultured. If this law were discussed by law students, they'd say, "Oh, that's not fair." If constitutional lawyers were to discuss this law, they would say, "Oh, but this is probably a violation of the principle of equality." Look, if the four farmers sat in the inn at night after hard work, they'd say, "The government fucked us." Nothing else. But since we're in the National Assembly, let's say it's tasteless. But if we were somewhere else, someone might also use the term perverse. What is the purpose of this law — let us say. The Small Work Act is going in, the referendum is going to be, and the government is going to take 100,000 euros or 200 workers' wages to convince workers that the law is good. That's a pretty nasty thing to do. It's a bad thing. It's a lot of weight. So, you're going to take this law to those people who are going to propose a referendum, who have now collected 40 or 50,000 signatures from their pockets, so the taxpayer's money will be taken from them, too, so that the government can spend 100,000 euros to convince them that they're wrong, and the law is fine, and this conviction will go well. At the same time, this law does not give them any right. However, when students or those who signed this usually have very little money or nothing, they should pay for the campaign. Let them pay for their flyers themselves, let them pay for all the other things, the jumbo posters and so on. No, but the government will take the labor money, that is, the taxpayer's money, to convince people how wrong they are and how the government is right. Everything the Minister has said is basically true, the Court of Auditors and so on. But let's go in the order of things, I have to base that. See, the problem in this performance and the coalition makes naked in front of the camera, forgive the expression, is the following: you cannot plead with the Constitutional Court, which said that money must be provided to the State Council. This argument is dismissed because the constitutional decision has been in force since February 2009, if I am not mistaken, and you have therefore had two years to implement this constitutional decision, but you have not. So today we are not here at an extraordinary session to implement the Constitutional Court's decision, because it was two years of time, but we are here to save the coalition or to save yourselves. And I think it's all so far away, at least with these referendums, that unfortunately, the coalition reminds me of a drowning man who's still covering his breath, that 100,000 euros will be some kind of breath you'll take. So this argument is off. I am also convinced by the decision of the College of the National Assembly, which, first of all, as President of the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice, has made clear to me: this bill will be discussed at the February meeting, and I have also convened it, for this Friday, I think at 12 o'clock. The college decided to do so, so the coalition decided. No, but when you figure out that you won't be able to participate in the referendum as a government, you'll have to get Gorenak to sign it quickly so it'll be a necessary meeting. And, of course, the College of Presidents of the National Assembly will also light that up. And I didn't want to trouble you - why? Since I could say, I'm sorry, I respect the College's decision, the meeting will be on Friday. That's what I could do, but then I'd say, like you did in the Law on Lawyering, that Gorenak is blocking the procedure of the National Assembly, which, of course, is not true, but you're changing it. And look, one more thing. At 3 p.m., the meeting is convened, it lasts until 4.15 a.m., it is now fixed to 0.55, and we are here for the defence and security interests of the state. Figo! Who said that? What, though, are the defence interests of the State at risk of having urgent procedures? They're gone! The government's interests are at stake, and that's true, yes. And it's not possible to interpret it like that. You're too open to the public. Indeed, the Constitutional Court has said that it is essential to provide funds for the Council of State if it is to run this campaign. Okay, you've had two years to do that. But now we have to go to an emergency session that can last all night, as we have seen, that was at least the original reference, but we must quickly accept the 100,000 euros you will spend. While those workers you take from them have no right to the money. So you take the taxpayer's money to convince them how stupid they are, how stupid this proposal is to go to a referendum - that the Small Work Act is okay. It's the same now, you know, like inviting me to lunch, and then you say, and now you pay for both. It's unfair, it's unfair, it's absolutely unfair. That kind of thing can't be supported. At the same time, one third of Members remain, which are also a category. The Legislative and Legal Service has made it clear that, by this logic, if the Council of State is justified, if the Government is justified, then those 30 Members are also eligible if they could possibly propose a referendum and participate in the campaign. No, but give them no. No, the opposition, not the workers who bring you a referendum. They need to be taken so that you can convince them that they are wrong. Turned to Amenity. You can't support such a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Franco Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u42	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Today I expected a rather hot debate, however, I am always surprised by the degree of demagogy we can hear in these debates. For example, the final contribution was an example in this direction. A lot of sounding words, demagog scores, actually, why it's going. It is a matter of aligning legislation with what is dictated by the Constitutional Court's decision in the case of the Council of State. It is clear that if someone is proposing a referendum, he has the constitutional right to act as a proposalr and to use a few resources to do so. In this case, in the State Council, the Constitutional Court considered that the non-financing of its referendum campaign was not in accordance with the Constitution. This law essentially allows anyone who formally proposes a referendum to assume responsibility and the right to represent their own views. The fact that every time a request for a referendum appears, the government is involved and the party in the referendum campaign is automatic and self-evident, because in the referendum they are mainly on wallpaper laws. The referendum does not require just government, mainly civil society or even political opposition. And if we are discussing that we should prevent the abuse of the referendum by a political or ruling policy, I think we should open a debate on how and who should convene the referendums. As we know today, there are 30 signatures to call for a referendum, i.e. Members who have already been paid so much and if we remain in Mr Gorenak's discourse, Members who receive a good salary to do our work in the National Assembly have, unlike other citizens, not only an electoral right, a voting right in the National Assembly, but we can collect 30 signatures and bring the whole country to the referendum. Generally, these referendums are very unsuccessful, and participation is declining, but nevertheless, the opposition has often contributed to the collection of such signatures and confronted the public with referendum decisions and, of course, sought funds. As we know, each referendum costs about €2 million or even €3 million. These funds must be provided by law, and now it becomes a problem for someone who needs to familiarise citizens and citizens, voters and voters with certain content, not to do so or to do so, but to do so without losing funds. See, this is some paradox, an absurd requirement, because if we accept the referendum and understand the referendum as a constitutional right and also the right of citizens to be informed and to be aware of all the details of the referendum case, this must be ensured. In this context, this non-compliance with the Constitution, which has been established in the case of the Council of State and, of course, also in the case of any entity of this country directly involved in the referendum campaign, must be eliminated. I see no doubt and no disagreement with the Constitution in this bill. At least I see some perversions. Perversion is that the government is seeing something from the counter of those who are always willing to contribute their 30 signatures and call a referendum and spend 3 million taxpayers' money. People are sick of this kind of game anyway. The opposition, however, will have the opportunity to think briefly and also discuss how to organise a referendum whose means should be a referendum. Is this a policy tool with two options? Whether this will be a means of civil society, i.e. a public acting as a corrective policy and collecting signatures, seeks to ensure that such a right is also satisfied. But today we hear objections from those who would like to retain this dual right, who, of course, are very often involved in collecting signatures and who very much want to have every opportunity to present their views to citizens. But they deny this right to the government. And usually referenda are always directed against the laws proposed by the government. Let us say that, at best, it is very unfair to ask the Government not to defend itself in front of voters when there is a referendum issue on the wallpaper concerning its legislation. It seems to me that there is no doubt, the law or amendments to the Electoral Referendum Campaign Act should be amended, brought into line with the requirements of the Constitutional Court and in the hope that we will continue to discuss the real content of the referendum. We have repeatedly highlighted the need for a new Referendum Act, which finally allows and ensures that the referendum remains only a means of civil society. Let civil society be the one who uses the referendum as a corrective tool for official policy and not as a means of manipulation or abuse resulting from the indignation of several Members. Members, we are paid to be here to decide to do our work in the National Assembly and to vote in favour or against or to abstain, this is also a constitutional right, on decisions concerning legislation. Let's leave the referendum to the people. It's a human initiative. In doing so, we will ensure that all participants have equal opportunity to argue and present their own views. Of course, I will also support this marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The word is "Miran Potch."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u44	Thank you very much. By regulating the referendum in our constitution and legislation, as a result, the referendum campaign is organised personally and my client is not satisfied. In the past, there have been many proposals to deal with these issues in a different way. No proposal has been adopted so far because a two-thirds majority that has not been able to provide for a change to the referendum regime in the Constitution is necessary. In the last month, two MPs and members of the coalition took the initiative to start a debate on whether to assess at the consultation referendum whether the current regulation of the referendums in article 90 of the Constitution is appropriate or would suggest otherwise. We recognize that our proposal is to limit in the present sense that we would have the right to request or propose a referendum mainly for citizens and citizens in the present or slightly larger number, so that it would be prudent to raise the issue of a constitutional initiative for a referendum by the Council of State and a third of Members and Members, but we were aware that if we put it in a concrete way to say no or a third as an opposition, there is no chance at all that we would be willing to accept the debate on this issue. That is why we have left the role of the State Council to us because it seems to us that until we can possibly begin and resolve the issue of the situation in the State Council in our constitutional system, drawing out individual powers is not right, as nothing remains. And with regard to the opposition, we were of the opinion that it would be right to slightly increase the number from one third, because it is also right that this decision, to request a referendum, is more thoughtful and responsible and is not limited to just one third of Members and Members. You probably know that the Government has gone forward in its thinking and that it recommends not to hold a preliminary consultation referendum, but that the Constitutional Commission, on the basis of a proposal to be prepared in the Government, assess whether article 90 of the Constitution meets our real needs and social situation or whether the necessary correction should be made in this regard. What and what the government's proposals will be like when the opportunity comes to light, I do not have the authority to explain them. But I want to say there are a lot of questions about the referendum in our country. I personally acknowledge that these issues have been potential in recent times also because of the number of referendums we have had, we have already made, and we have them in view of the warnings you are giving us, especially Members and Members of the opposition, when you say in many laws: "but if it is not as we think it will be, we will propose or request a referendum." We feel that this issue needs to be assessed. The issue of the referendum campaign is also raised in this context. At the time of the previous government, with quite proper preparation, I have no comments to it, on the part of the competent minister, adopted amendments and additions or I think that even a new Law on Election and Referendum Campaigns, because we have combined these two and set certain definitions. As for me, since I had the opportunity to participate with the competent minister, you can ask him to speak the truth when I warned him that, despite all the best wishes, many questions, especially regarding the referendum campaign, are not regulated in a way that would allow for uniform equal treatment and a completely indisputable determination of what individual decisions mean. The desire, however, was to limit the referendum campaign in time, determine and decide who the organisers of the referendum campaign were, to what extent and how much resources can be spent to make things as transparent as possible. We are now talking about changes and amendments to the law, and I think it would be right that the opposition in this part is also correct and recognises that the fundamental reasons for these changes in the law are the fact that the situation of the State Council in the financing system is unconstitutional and that these are the warnings put by the Court of Auditors in the position of the government funding system. And just these two and nothing else, without any evil intentions, we're trying to settle this marriage. Whether the solutions are final will be shown by today's debate, perhaps by further activities already promised by the opposition. I wouldn't rule them out, and I wouldn't rule out the possibility that the arrangement could be different. It is only today, ladies and gentlemen, that you have comments from the opposition only in whether or not the Government can be the organiser of the electoral campaign. And I think the answer to this question should really be one-sided that it should be. Because, if any, then certainly the government is among those organised entities in a society that has a direct interest, that laws which it itself has proposed or the content of laws that it has advocated remain in force even after the referendum, if it is signed, because it is an integral part of its policy. And to challenge the government with such an interest, and such an opportunity I must say, for me, it is an unreasonable thing to do. However, an integral part of the financing of this activity is not a right, but it is a restriction, since the law provides that when a government is an organiser of a referendum campaign, and in terms of an election, it is not normal, it does not have the right to use only one quarter of the funds that are held by others who are the organisers of the referendum campaign. So, the government to report that it has an interest in the content of the decision, I think it's reckless, really inappropriate, and I believe that everyone will recognize it. It should be noted that, as an organiser, the right to use part of the funds is limited to one quarter of the funds that other organisers have is inadequate, because this is explicitly required by the Court of Auditors’ warnings, otherwise it would have acted contrary to the rules on the use of public funds. And thirdly, it is not true that between the lines you claim that the availability of funds is linked or that the adoption of certain positions is also linked to an election campaign. There's nothing wrong with the government's campaign. And that these warnings and these suggestions are justified show, after all, the amendments that you are making yourself. It is not your intention to regulate the situation, including 30 Members and Members who propose or have the right to request a referendum, it is not your intention to regulate this right for 40,000 voters and voters; it is only important that the Government does not have any opportunity to communicate legally in relation to the referendum, not to fear that someone will deny it that they abuse their position in the system or their position in the use of public funds, that they may also communicate their position to citizens and citizens who will decide on certain laws at the referendum. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an integral part of the government's position. There was a lot of talk today about the government of everyone. Yes, the government must work for all, only we have in the system of political democracy of the coalition government and we know who supports the government, who is the opposition, so talk about how the government makes decisions and takes them in the same way as regards the attitude towards the coalition and the opposition parties. As a result, the content of the decision is such that it has an interest to defend them in public. I think the solutions that are being proposed today provide the basis. I think we should not, and we will oppose the decisions proposed by the Slovenian People's Party because this violates the position and responsibility of the Government in the decision-making system. However, referendum decision-making is an integral part of, or the last phase of, the legislative process in which, as a rule, the Government has, as an important institution, the most unfortunately important visa of coalition members, as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u45	Anybody else want to discuss the amendments? Check-in is on. Mr. Mag. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u46	Thank you. The two concepts have been mixed all the time, which I have pointed out in the opening part of the presentation of the positions of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. One is those who have been authorised by the Constitution to apply for a referendum and the other is all others. Under the Constitution, the referendum can be proposed by 40,000 voters and voters, in the first place, in my opinion, then by at least 30 Members and Members with their signatures, the National Assembly with a decision, which is in the Law on the Referendum and the People's Initiative, and of course the State Council. There is no other such candidate. The government, the political parties, everyone else in this story are in another position. The government does not fall from the sky, but in the parliamentary system, as in Slovenia, it is elected on the basis of some relationship of political forces in the National Assembly, which is justified by the vote for the lists, according to the party lists in the National Assembly. And if everyone is equal, then everyone should be in the same position. We do not demand or propose anything other than to respect the principle of equality. You can't give the government special powers, not everyone else. We didn't want to spread it, which, by the way, is now being asked why everyone else isn't. Because then the issue of the costs that people in times of crisis and what the Government and the ruling coalition should be extremely sensitive to in times of crisis should be raised. That is why we have not proposed that this should be further expanded. But we suggest that the government is not given any special status. And we obviously don't come here together. None of us would have a problem if it were only for the implementation of the Constitutional Court decision, which refers to one of the authorised candidates, is the Council of State, which has a specific function in the system even after the Constitution itself. And we don't question that. We ask why the pot, not the pot, the golido is also attached by the Government, which has very great powers, has its levers of power, including the fact that people are familiar with their views, has many ways, if you want, to the microphone that no one else has, and the ruling coalition can, of course, use the same resources in the National Assembly as they are available to the opposition. Again, the principle of equality is respected. But if the government gives some special powers, some special money, then it's no longer an equal fight. Then they're taken twice, they have double power, they have a coalition through the government, which is its government, and they have through most of the political parties that are hers again. Twice against one. And why? And of course we don't agree with that. If I translate to you the Orwell Talk, which you like to speak for yourself, sometimes even unconsciously, because in Lacan, when he speaks most truly, it would be something like this, so if we're talking in the Orwell Rumor. You adhere strictly to the Orwell principle: "all animals are equal, only pigs, those at the trough, are more equal than the others." And we want to end this sentence there: "all animals are equal." And then there's nothing else. And why do you do that? Because you simply are not able to argue for the principles of your own policy, because you simply have no arguments. You refer exclusively to the argument of power and there, when there is a confrontation of arguments, for example in the referendum, but there you want to secure some additional power in advance, some additional advantage, which of course changes the rules of the game, which then is no longer fair, is no longer equal. Because, as we say, through the government and through the coalition, you have twice the power. Not to mention what was the first draft of a law whereby, by the way, the Government could, for example, make an unlimited reference in its press conference premises during the referendum and not in its premises. Very interesting logic, but well, this has already been deleted on the committee, but this certainly says a lot about the applicant, that is, about the Government, what was the real purpose of this – exclusively and only by rejecting, destroying, destroying the principles of equality in the face of arguments, because the ruling coalition and the government do not have, and you know this damn well, and you can see that. More natural disasters than the current coalition and government, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, for the Slovenian economy, cannot imagine at all. One minor earthquake would have done an incomparable amount of damage than the current government. But that's the thing we're going to meet up with when the debate on the priorities of this government, which was last voted, is what I'm leaving behind today. What goes back is the question of the principle of equality and the referendum in general, because many of the coalition have discussed this. Why do the government and the ruling majority thus seek to limit the referendum, in one form or another? Is it so that at least one additional advantage can be added to the marriage? Because the referendum, even after the knowledge of the constitutional profession, is the only effective principle, the only effective institution for limiting power. And the current ruling coalition, by advocating for all possible tricks in restricting the right to a referendum, shows itself beyond what one understands, only by wanting unlimited power. And the unlimited power is totalitarian. By doing so, you show only your undemocraticness, and it would be time for you to stop doing so. Why is the referendum the only effective form of power limitation even after knowledge of the modern constitutional profession? Because in a parliamentary system such as Slovenia, every single government is always based on some kind of force relationship, on some coalition in Parliament and implementing its policy. This has led to an extreme, absurd extremity, if you will, of the current president of the National Assembly, when he once said in an interview, whatever this government proposes, I will support. Yes, men of God, where is the principle enshrined in the constitution that Members are not bound to any instructions, but that we are primarily committed to voters, voters and voters, all of them. When you press a button, you have to think with your own head and obviously there is a lack of it in the coalition. According to this statement, there is a severe shortage, even at the very top; otherwise, it is characteristic that the fish stinks at the head, so that this is no particular surprise. Certainly, however, there is a referendum as an institution in the Slovenian democratic order not only by constitutional principles, but also by, if you wish, a fundamental democratic tradition. At what, for God's sake, did the independent state of Slovenia come into existence? Based on plebiscite, the referendum decision on plebiscite. So the decisions of the one who, by the Constitution and by all democratic principles, is the sole authority, and this is the people. For everything else is only a form of its realization, even here in Parliament, by speaking, and what some of the debates were such, especially by the coalition, 'yes, but we must not postpone so much', and 'it is irresponsible', as Mr Juri said earlier, 'to postpone a decision to the electorate'. I don't know, I read these things a lot so voters shouldn't be competent to make decisions about this and that. But, look, if you've been elected, then they're certainly able to make a competent decision about everything you decide in the National Assembly. Are you going to say that the voters who elected you are so incompetent they can't decide what you decide? That would be arrogant, though there have been some such statements. Let's think about this a little bit. Which way do your words go? Of course, it is only possible for the first time to face arguments that are essential in the referendum if there are no specific limitations in the referendum and secondly, if the principles of an equal approach, equal rights, equal starting point. First of all, this means that the ruling coalition and the government cannot open two channels for the same thing, but that they must, in principle, be in the same position as the opposition. Then it's a real confrontation of arguments. The government is already in the lead, as has been said, but at least when it comes to this level, the principle of equality must be respected here. Besides, those of you who refer to foreign models may have noticed, in the past we have been almost agreed upon for the Swiss model referendum. It failed because the transition left always wanted to limit the right to a referendum and we did not agree to it. But we were very close, but in the Swiss part of the referendum, the interlocutor, the people at the referendum, as the peoples as the proponent in the principle of the referendum, is not the Government, but the Parliament, because Parliament is the body in which the arguments come together and is the highest legislative authority. And it would be good for us to do so and to show proper respect for ourselves and not want to give the Government an authorised position in a matter where all parties, all applicants in principle, should be equal, and that is what this is about.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u47	Mr. Franz Puksich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u48	Thank you very much. It seems to me that our amendment, or the indictment by the coalition, has been improperly summarised, if we do not advocate financing arrangements for others, that is, 40,000 signatures of citizens and citizens or 30 Members, but we are only opposed to this poor government that we should not have any extra money to actively participate in the referendum campaign. So, so far, she hasn't had this option for extra funds. On the other hand, the eyewitnesses who flew by the Minister to the previous Government, let's see how the referendum campaign by your Government on the arbitration agreement took place. All the political parties followed you through the entire graphic image, as well as the content and so on and so on, what was going on in the government. But the fact is, they have an opportunity to inform, that's what I said before, the government and the ministries. And let's see what this 100,000 euro means for each referendum campaign. Citizens and citizens to know that when they bomb you three times after a twenty-second TV spot for a month will be paid out of your pocket, so for about three times a month after twenty seconds, these are, of course, large, long spots, they will be paid out of this money. So far, no political party has been able to afford such a thing, nor has the LDS been able to afford it at the time of 34 Members. Now, for this reason, political parties will be able to spend more money on the paper campaign and on other matters, as they will have an additional €100,000 through the government. That's a fact. That's right, and say it. You mean that you will be conducting the well-predicted referendums, possible referendums, of course, with a lot of money. Where do you see equality before marriage in this country? That's about what I said once, if the temperature drops to minus 20 and there's two, both without a hat, and you'll say we'll give them a hat. Both of you. Okay. But whoever's naked and boss is gonna freeze to death. The one in the coat, he'll live for it. In short, it's not right. And more. You know, some lawyers have already begun to wonder, already today, something has been said about this, we know who the candidates for the referendum are, we know, now that the government would like to become an additional organizer of the election campaign, that is, solely for the sake of money and support to its political coalition parties, it's probably also a recession in their cash registers, which is the reason. But the question is still being asked, and I think there will be still some inkling of what has been spilled, whether or not the Government has even reached out to article 90 of the Constitution, in the last paragraph, when it says that the referendum is governed by a law adopted by the National Assembly with a two-thirds majority of the votes of the Members present. Well, I'm not going to say it, but some lawyers have already warned us about it, and there's probably something else to be said about it. But the fact is that with this, in fact, the government is also acting, I'm going to say, into this branch of power, the National Assembly, and, I don't know, with the extra money, again, as I said in my position, it's actually buying an advantage. Who is the ruler of this world? The one with the money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u49	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. At the beginning of his discussion, Grimes said that there were two concepts involved. I'm sure there's more going on. Just as colleague Jelinčič initially confused these electoral campaigns, pre-election meetings and so on, there is no such thing in the bill as on our tables. It could have been the law's proposal when he came to the parental committee. That is not the case now, of course, but this is another problem, how many Members we are present in our work and how much we are accompanying it and how much we are talking about. I find it interesting that the only fact that is actually disturbing here is not the fact that there would be some general constitutional or legal nature, but the fact that the Government will have the opportunity to spend something. It's the most controversial. To allow the State Council to spend the same amount of money, don't worry about anyone. Now I am not quite sure that we are all here in agreement that the State Council always makes only wise moves, that it always makes the right decision that it has never made any mistakes. And that spending money in the State Council is completely rational and justifiable and that it makes taxpayers more good than spending elsewhere. Probably just as much spending in the State Council can be completely unnecessary for anyone because the National Council or the two - house assembly or representative body has Parliament, as you would like, for some past atavism, for the blind bowel of democracy. But that's not a problem right now. The State Council is allowed to do so because the Constitutional Court has said so. Of course, the Constitutional Court has said that if it already has the opportunity to participate, to call, to request referendums, it must also be able to present its opinion. And how he will present this opinion must not depend on the government's measurement assessment that he may or may not use a means at such or different altitudes. That because his function is the same as that of the constitutional category, the State Council must be autonomous here. What criterion should the Government now choose to say, however, how much does the State Council have for the campaign when it wants to have some money? She does not know, we are on slippery ground, there has never been such a case before, and the government has decided as it has decided, and at the same time wanted to tell the voters and voters, to the same extent, when they decide what it has to say about a particular referendum. As I said before in the opinion of the parliamentary group, in fact, with so many qualified candidates of the referendum as we know them, and especially with such hiccups, with which, above all, 30 Members require subsequent legislative referendums, the referendum has in fact become the sixth reading of the law. And if the government is a proponent, then I think the government has something to say about it all together, in all the readings. She has the right to say, about all the previous ones in five, in three readings here, in the State Council, at the time of the re-vote, or in the fifth reading, there is nothing left to say, but we are also deciding, and in the sixth, it is said, that two readings of the law are without a candidate. Is that fair, or is that normal? In my opinion it is not, so I support the arrangement as it is, because otherwise it may happen to us that many of us are not satisfied with any arrangement, and then we want to resolve everything in a referendum. It seems even more problematic to me that we have restricted the right to a referendum concerning consultative referendums as regards previous legislative referendums. I am confident that the majority of voters in the referendum, if possible, would support the separation of the mayoral and parliamentary functions. But I can't get to this referendum. I can't get to the eyelashes. There will not be, for once in this National Assembly, a majority who would have passed such a law so that someone would be able to afford it. But if the marriage is thrown out in the first reading, it's no use to me. And I would love to, and I'm sure that most voters and voters would be happy to support it and that it's not a problem and that they think it's a waste of money. And we can't go to this referendum. Is this some kind of democracy, my dear populism on the other hand, or is that where it leads, or is that fair to people? Why don't you listen to this people, why don't you let them say it, why don't you listen? Listen, please, you can't press your head in the sand like you do, and if you want, I can go on for another five minutes, give it to people, listen to what they have to say, separate this mayoral and parliamentary function, because we're not supermen in here. [[...]] We're doing one function, doing the right thing, and we're doing the right thing, and we're doing the right thing, and we're doing the right thing, and we're doing the right thing, and we're doing the right thing, and we're doing the right thing, and we're And that's not the case, and nothing happens, and for the week we've been trying to get some kind of marriage through. I hope it goes well in the seventh if it doesn't go to the third and fourth and fifth. When there was a talk about wanting an unlimited totalitarian authority, from the mouth of a colleague of Grims, I would, of course, also remind him of Lacana, both unconsciously and when someone and what subconsciously reveals. Nor is it always true that the Government has always agreed on these decisions. We have cases of decisions where one coalition party does not support a legal solution, but agrees with the referendum, and on the other hand we have a case where the opposition party agrees with such a law and does not support the referendum. This equation of government and coalitions and coalition parties is not always in place and correct. But to pour ourselves pure wine, and to know what we are talking about most, to talk about absolute amounts. Here we are talking about about about 100,000 euros that the government could use for a referendum. We heard about the referendum earlier that it costs us 3 million euros. The referendum mainly requires 30 Members. Three million divided by 30 is 100,000 euros for one parliamentary signature for the referendum. That's the amount we're talking about right now. Each of the 30 sponsors of the referendum has a personal responsibility for EUR 100,000 just as they would give it to the Government. What happens to these 30 signatures when the referendum falls? Or someone is responsible for these 100,000 euros, of course not. More than that, what happens to us? It happens to us that the Constitutional Court must explain to those 30 signatories whose signature is worth 100 000 euros if the referendum were to be announced that these matters should not be called for. Do these people deserve a salary, in fact, to invoke such a referendum, let alone come with 100,000 euros of their own and say, we're going to a referendum now, I believe in my money, I believe in my right? Let's do this. We're talking here from the coalition to see if this institute is in place or not. Of course, people's initiatives can't be directly limited, here I think we're all the same, 40,000 signatures, yes something's true and no one's ever denied it. The veto of the Council of State, the veto of this or other qualified majority of Members, who are all able to participate already in the legislative process, is something that we can talk about. Since we're so far away. In the State Council, as I said before, representatives of local and interest groups are sitting. All stakeholders should probably have as much support as 40,000 electorates and voters, and if the interest group wished to find a way to collect these 40,000 signatures. We have seen that, in the case of small work, in the case of pension reform, it is not so difficult for someone who is serious and who seriously thinks to collect 40,000 signatures. This would probably be the same for political parties. A serious political party for a serious subject should be able to hire 40,000 voters to come under a request for a referendum, not that we have a referendum where participation is barely such and that is what is worrying. It is true that the people are the only sovereign, but we can still be concerned if 10% of the voters come to the referendum and, of course, one question must be asked whether this is a relevant decision or not. Once again, what we are talking about now is EUR 100,000 for the government for each referendum campaign, and 100,000 can also be translated into one signature under a 30-member referendum. We will decide how we will decide on this amendment, just as we decide seriously or easily on our signatures under the request for a referendum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u51	Mr. Guido Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u52	Thank you for saying so, Mr Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law follows a decision of the Constitutional Court, which concluded that the sixth paragraph of Article 4 of the Electoral and Referendum Campaign Act is inconsistent with the Constitution, if it relates to the Council of State. The provision of funds is expected to be regulated. Once the proposed amendment has been implemented, these funds shall also be granted to the Council of State upon its request. So far, everything's fine and well, but the government's put a pee-pee on it very quickly. Any increase in this seems unacceptable to me at this time. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we proposed amendments that would ultimately only preserve the part of the novel following the Constitutional Court's decision. My opinion is that the Government should defend its position in a campaign through coalition parties. The parties shall receive funds for this purpose for the purpose of planning the funds. However, if there is no means that such a campaign can be carried out, it is the planners and those who lead the policy of the parties and governments themselves who are responsible. In such a way that the Government receives additional funds, this equal situation in this part is assuredly being undermined. I fully support this decision and the proposals of the Slovenian People's Party. At that time, I think that any additional increase in funds would be totally unacceptable, except for those already agreed on and should be implemented and ensured in accordance with the legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u53	Mr. Jacob President, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u54	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with co-worker, colleague and colleague! First of all, let me say what is being said in today's debate that we are signing with our left hand in the opposition requests or proposals for referendums, such and other, necessary and unnecessary. Let me say that I didn't agree to the referendums just for every occasion, and that even though I've been in this house for a long time, I don't know what to think, but I should go over it, but I would have finished counting my signatures on the request for a referendum very quickly. So it's introductory. Otherwise, I'd say the following about this marriage. To put it simply, my opinion is that the result of the referendum is that the decision at the referendum is not too disproportionate to the means invested in the campaign. That's for sure. But the result is certainly dependent and it depends most on the quality and social acceptability of the solution that is decided at the referendum and we must be aware of it, and in this case I also agree that we must be so responsible that every little thing or every decision, is not put to the referendum, but that it is the State Assembly who must make the final and responsible decision on matters. Now, about this change of law itself. The fact is that the Government here has taken advantage of the Constitutional Court's decision. It bothers me. Although I am in favour of the decision of the Constitutional Court to be respected. At the next point, it's obvious we won't. But the government as a matter of fact has been missing its ticket and has become involved in this matter. The fact is that the coalition has significantly more, that is, more resources, there are also more parliamentary groups or political parties and already has more opportunities to present their views in public. Finally, by engaging in these campaigns, by including ministers and all apparatus across individual ministries, including all people, with all the apparatus, as I said through individual ministries and, of course, as political parties and Members are more in the coalition, the coalition has already essentially more money for the referendum campaign itself. For this reason, it seems to me that it was not entirely correct for the Government to bring its ticket to the Constitutional Court's decision. Although I could also comment on how much money should ultimately belong to the State Council, because it can lead its campaign. However, as it is said, the decision of the Constitutional Court is the same as it is. We respect her, so do I. However, I cannot agree with this addition, which the Government has added. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u55	Anybody else want to discuss this? Report. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u56	Thank you so much for saying that. In my debate, I would first draw attention to some of the words that have been spoken here, both by the coalition Members and by the Minister. In summary, the Minister said that the government needed the right and the means to finance the campaign. However, when the Government submitted the law to the legislative procedure, point 3 stated that the proposal would have no additional financial implications for the State budget and other public funds. How is it possible for you to simultaneously speak to the coalition MPs and the minister about the need for funds and to record in the law that you have put into the financial implications that there will be no financial consequences? That's hard to believe. Especially since you also stated in the law that the law would enter into force the following day after its publication in the Official Journal. That's what it says, it's starting to take effect almost immediately. And right now, we're having an election campaign for a small-time referendum. This suggests a marked duplicity, of the Government's gross deceiving when it puts something into the legislative process, its coalition does the same thing, writes something, and then argues with diametrically contradictory arguments that it needs money, that it is right for the government to participate in the campaign and so on. We, the well-respected coalition, the well-respected government, have become accustomed to these differences between words and actions in the National Assembly, but it is only right to point out once and for all all these inconsistencies that occur practically from case to case. Because we all saw why and knew why it was going in this law, in which no one in the National Assembly rejected this law, just as you did to the opposition’s proponents when they found a discrepancy between the text, the explanation, and the content of the law. The second thing that is actually quite problematic is to show regulation in other legal systems. With no argument, the Government has not backed up the solution it has proposed and is now in the complementary proposal of the law. Not a single argument. Here we have four examples, France, Great Britain, Austria and Switzerland, and in no case is it written that the government has special means to defend the solutions it has proposed. Not at all. It is said that we are now coming or the government is coming, the coalition is coming with some unique solution that is written on the skin of it and the current situation. The goal is not really such a general solution, but a solution to the bare skin, in the cases that are now taking place. I do not understand that no one in the National Assembly has warned of this discrimination between articles of law and comparative analysis of other systems. This seems extremely unusual to me in all the attention that the leadership of the National Assembly has to offer to other proponents. The next question to be asked is why does the government need such an exclusive solution? The government doesn't make any laws. The Government is a bill-maker in the National Assembly and the National Assembly, with such or other additions, as a rule in this mandate with extremely large additions. The government as the host of laws has no position. Therefore, it is not written in the Constitution as the one proposing the referendum. That's why she didn't. We are the ones who are enacting the laws, and we are the ones who are already defending these laws, saying, the National Assembly, proportionally, coalition, opposition, however certain solutions are formed. The government is not a lawmaker. And after this division of power and after this constitutional solution, which is written down, cannot be a candidate for the referendum and must not be involved in any means of such a solution. We're all talking here or you're talking about how it's going to cost about 100,000 euros. A quarter of the eligible funds for the electoral or referendum campaign is around €200,000. 760,000 euros per vote, per voter, is admissible, and a quarter of that is about that much. I don't think it's appropriate to manipulate these numbers as well. It also seems extremely unrealistic and irresponsible for the Government to use the constitutional decision and the right to co-finance the referendum of the State Council as a key argument for why it proposed the law. This is the abuse that happened in this case. Firstly, it took a very long time for the Government to draw up such a law and not prepare it in what is the substance of the constitutional decision, but it has substantially expanded the matter. And this extended to one who does not have any right to these funds because he is not a proposer. I think it must be said that in this case the Government has used the State Council in essence only for a mask, in order to bring a solution, the coalition has upgraded this so that it can financially enter into the defence of the law adopted by the National Assembly. But the government gave the solutions and the idea, that's indisputable. However, there is no direct link to the adoption of this law, in fact, the Government does not, since all of this was carried out by a vote in the National Assembly. It is also important to note what some colleagues have already pointed out that the Government has also abused the Institute of Extraordinary Meetings. An extraordinary meeting shall be convened in cases where it is not possible to place a number of points on the agenda of the meeting in a timely manner. The specific item was placed on the agenda of the meeting beginning at the end of the month. The Chairman of the Committee earlier said that he had already convened a meeting on the basis of a timetable adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly, which is to say that all this mechanism regarding the adoption of this law has been properly prepared. However, due to the urgency created by these signatures on the Small Work referendum and also probably the referendum on the Pension and Disability Insurance Act, the Government has rushed the matter, the Members have signed them and the matter has been placed on the agenda. I think that it is unacceptable for a serious coalition to operate in such an ad hoc way that it does not work systemically, that it does not work projectically, that it does not work on schedule, but that, depending on the situation, it jumps from branch to branch, like squirrels in the forest. I must say that we will not support this bill, and that is why we have also proposed an amendment, even in our parliamentary group, if you have not noticed, it is not just another parliamentary group that has proposed that those who do not have the right to propose, that this matter be deleted, and that they do not have the right to obtain funds from the state budget. After all, those who collect enough signatures to call for a referendum, as was the case with the Small Work Act, have collected about 50,000 signatures, probably representing some public interest - those who signed this request on the administrative unit. And if we want from state resources, it is said from public funds that there is a measure of proportionality, then to all or to this campaign organiser from the same source it is necessary to allocate funds. Yes, logically, if a non-proposer government wants its share of campaign funding, then so should the one who organised the matter. But in the case of the Small Work Act, they're going to have to solve their campaign in a completely different way. That's what they say. They're gonna have to fight to get some money. The government and the government coalition will cut off a certain part of the budget by law and will welcome it for an election campaign to convince the public. This is what I think is inappropriate to public funds, for example, in the case of electoral campaigns, all those who organise campaigns that demand a campaign should participate in the same way. It is unacceptable here that the government has an exclusive solution. And it is likely that this teaching hour, which the Government experienced at the radio show referendum, cost the Government a very expensive deal, and also this solution proposed by the Government is probably the product of this defeat, which was adopted by the people at the referendum. In short, I think that the things that you have brought to the National Assembly are inappropriate, not in the spirit of time, not in the spirit of understanding equality, not in the spirit of understanding the Slovenian Constitution and much more, and therefore does not show support. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u57	Madam Secretary, you have the floor. Excuse me, Mr. Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u58	If only, Mr Tanko, I actually think that you were even in the plenary room when I initially explained things as if you didn't want them or you didn't want to hear them. All those who claim that the Government thereby provides additional funds, provides increased funds, installs the ticket and so on, deceive. The 2011 budget has been adopted. The services of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia also have budget lines and if you want UKOM has a budget item Communication of the government with the public and government information campaigns which, of course, address people through content, i.e. awareness, information and so on. And from this item, you, who are today telling us the shortcomings that we are going to, spent $70,000 in a referendum campaign in 2007 to protect the law of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, then your, in short, public awareness that the law is good. To the State Council, even though the Government could have made funds available to the public after the rule of law, it did not give the money to the public. Who was undemocratic? So please do not compare your conduct with the actions followed by the proposal of this law. Things aren't comparable. None of it, as Mr Grimes said, is that we're at the trough, and we want more. All we want is what the Court of Auditors has pointed out, that if the Government, which cannot be perceived as having no interest as defined by the 2007 Act, as the same criterion for the outcome of the referendum, the interested entity is all natural, legal persons in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia can. In those 30 days, the government has stated anything when it has supported its law in the way that it has advertised its advantages at press conferences, its representatives have violated the third paragraph of Article 1 of the Electoral Referendum Campaign Act, which we do not change and clearly state what the referendum campaign is. They are all the contents of which the aim is to influence the decision-making of the electorate when voting at the referendum. It's a matter of conveying to all those who say that the government can perform peacefully this month, speak, enlighten people. He must not tell the Court of Auditors to apply as an organiser of the electoral campaign and to do so systematically. This was said in 2007 and therefore this amendment together with the fact that this Government does not want from the existing budget lines it has. The government's public communication service has the resources to raise public awareness and will also use them. But the Court of Auditors says it is wrong to spend the funds of this budget line during that month without being notified in a transparent and transparent manner as an organiser of the electoral campaign and for this purpose, so advertising, convincing voters, which is every word of the government's representative, what else cannot be by law, is not transparent. That is why we do not allow the Government unlimited spending of these funds, and here we are exactly the same in measuring the tax money spending vat. We have not invented the seventh paragraph of this Article, where exactly the same is true for the mayor if you want a government in the municipality to give the possibility that when the organiser of the referendum campaign the local community can allocate funds for the referendum campaign no more than 25% of the eligible amount of costs referred to in paragraph 6. Therefore, the municipality is a legal person of public law, when the referendum campaign to be dealt with and to be supported by a probably decree adopted by the Council of the Municipal Assembly can, of course, also involve an interested authority in the municipality and part of the funds spent on the referendum campaign. The municipality is a designated official in the national territory, the Republic of Slovenia and its Government Act, that is, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which represents the country and so on, is responsible for the situation in the country at this most symbolic level. Well, once again, it's not about extra funds. It's not about new funds. This is when, if the Government decides to allocate existing funds to this service in a 30-day referendum campaign, i.e. in these 30 days for example, for the preparation of the memo, to inform the public that it will therefore notify itself as an organiser and that the funds from this account, which will have to be created in the same way as all the organisers, will spend less or no more than EUR 100,000. Or not if she decides that she will not enter as an organizer in a single law, she will not do so. Depending on whether you want, available resources are available on existing budget items of the service, which already have the resources to inform the public today. So, it is not about non-systemicism, once again, for all future governments, we regulate their operations in a transparent and clear way when they will declare themselves at the time of the referendum campaign. No one has been heard from this city to deny the right of the Government this month, as a proponent of a policy or solution, to say no about it. All we're saying is let him do it a little bit under the table and through his existing channels. The Court of Auditors says, "No, just like everyone else" and I think that this proposed regulation is perfectly correct. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u59	Mr. Tanko Replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u60	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Minister! The time of the election campaign or the referendum campaign is a special time. This time is regulated by a special law. And for this period and for these activities special resources are prescribed and specific rules governing the use of these funds apply. And these are not the funds the UKOM has to communicate with the public. These are not the funds the UKOM has to communicate with the public. If that were the case, they wouldn't change me in this case. Once again, the government is not a candidate for the referendum. This is said not to occur in this particular case, for the first time. Secondly, the implementation of the referendum campaign requires special funds, a special budget item, as this is kept in a special account and things are controlled. That's why the government needs the legal basis and the law to do it. Thirdly, I have also pointed out a comparative analysis, an international analysis that you owe to attaching, and not one of the solutions that you have proposed in the explanation of the law is anything like what you are proposing. Not Switzerland, not France, not Great Britain, and if I'm not wrong, not Germany. Nowhere does the government act as an organizer of an election or referendum campaign. This is left to others. And in this case, no one argued. This is possible in, I don't know which country south of us, what you suggested, but it's not in the analysis, because it's not what you need to attach. However, you are obliged to submit a comparative analysis with the countries of the European Union and in this case and in that case, they do not know such a solution. They don't know. You can read me the solutions you gave me and see if it matches what you wrote. I think it's also unfair to try these things, I'll say, roll left or right. You didn't write anything in the explanation of the marriage that you just said. Nowhere. In one part of the text you did not rely on any solution, not the previous one, nor the previous governments. You have given a comparative analysis, what you are obliged to give and once again I warn you, a specific budget line is needed to carry out elections or referendums and you are not in the state budget. You're not here. And that's why you wrote it down, because it's not going to need any additional funds, but it's not in line with the words you've made and not with the solution you've proposed. This, Minister, I must remind you that the things you have written and spoken of do not conform to what you have proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u61	Mr. Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u62	It is quite amazing that no such simple decision in the National Assembly can go without one party seeing a conspiracy and it is total, complex, comprehensive and destructive for that country, for citizens and citizens. But it's such a simple matter. For the three articles of the law, two are substantive and one is one that governs transitional provisions. The first, of course, can be debated; we are now with the second, but because we have practically also discussed two articles together on the Committee. Indeed, the first might require further clarification as to whether these services, which are determined by the government, are rather abstract and comprehensive, would be better to record which service is the one that will do it, but no matter what. If we look simply and try to understand that there must be a balance between different branches of government in this country. Here the Constitutional Court has given us, in a sense, a directive to do something about the financing of the electoral campaign when the State Council is involved. Let us leave aside what anyone thinks about the existence, role and mission of the State Council. I also think that in the near future he will have to undergo a transformation, be transformed into a congregation of regions or anything else, or eliminate it as some would like to see. Those who oppose this law have repeatedly said that they would just eliminate it, even perhaps, but it is not a topic now. In short, it cannot be disputed to settle this issue that the State Council is a party to this process and that certain funds can therefore also be provided. Even less, it can be disputed that the government, which itself has attributed to itself here in the explanations of this law, is also too much of a role to be responsible for everything in this country, which I do not think is that the National Assembly also has an important political mission for the formulation of certain policies and the execution of certain things. However, it is responsible for the implementation of policies if you want social, health, school and so on. That's the part where he answers. And in this part of the election, he gets a mandate to lead this policy. That is why, on behalf of the State, it also has the money allocated to individual policies under this Common Jacket from the budget through the National Assembly. There's no other. This is how it is regulated at the end, if you want in the municipalities, the mayors are really stronger than the presidents of governments or governments in the country, but they still cannot do everything without consulting the municipal council or having an approved budget for the implementation of certain policies, especially the provision of money. So it's pretty hypocritical to say that the government has nothing to do with things. On the contrary. It should be tasked with clarifying a number of things more in order to introduce more practices, consequences that will affect citizens and citizens in one way or another by making a decision. The main focus is on the positive changes and the things the Government is adopting with the aim of improving the situation in specific areas in order to improve the standard of citizens and so on. But there are also decisions that will affect certain social groups in a worse position than they had before, for example, if they were privileged or otherwise, that they would, say, give the rich something more, give the poor something more, and that is what is essential to the whole thing. Therefore, to speak of the need to exclude the Government from this matter is not fair, is not right, and it does not matter which government is in power. I understand that your arrest will end and you will continue to insist that any proposal that will come from the Government will drown in a spoon of water if necessary. And I really don't understand so many bile discussions today. If anyone listened, for a while earlier I tried to listen, with some anger and what was said, what the Government was doing and so on. Yes, Mr. Gorenak, you're just ahead of me because you've looked so gently at me, and you said that it probably can't fly at you. No, no, no, there are usually exceptions or vice versa, those who are not are exempt from criticism. So it's pretty cool that we talk like this. That's why I say I only see two things in this marriage. The first thing is to follow the decision of the Constitutional Court, which is actually interesting to look at at at the next point, when we are dealing again with a matter called a balance between the two branches of power, when one says it would be right to do something, but let's say we don't want to do what they propose. That's the way it is here. Here, unlike some other cases, when, for example, a sacred matter was set up by someone else, but it is absolutely sacred and God forbid anyone invents that they would not support it. And that's where you have to be honest. Not to mention the Court of Auditors' decisions. If nothing else, is it not right to make obscenity recommendations that have been made? I do not believe that it is the Court of Auditors' will to express political views that everyone involved in any kind of public money use should treat it responsibly, transparently, to report on consumption and so on. I don't see anything else here. And if it is wrong that in this way, it will be impossible already, I am sure, to follow and separate the activity during that month or three weeks of the campaign, when it comes to the Minister, the machine and all those involved, to put on the side of all other activities and will devote themselves to it only and it will be all the costs that will be generated by this work and by all those who will work on this project and will be put into this item because it is simply not possible. But it's progress, it's a step forward. I believe that this is a contribution to having more transparency in the area of spending public money and, on the other hand, to having some fair game that we need to have. Don't tell me it's not about the government being a proponent or not a billmaker. The referendums always refer to the adoption of a policy or the rejection of a policy brought into the National Assembly and adopted by the National Assembly or by the Government itself. These are questions that are therefore on the side of the ruling policy during that period. Therefore, this argument does not hold back that, because it is not a proposer, it cannot be financed, it must not cooperate. It's just that I don't think it's right. And I advocate that every authority, even when it comes to how far it can go in some of the human resources and all the other measures that fall within the area of public property management, to which point does each government have the right? To the point where it can and will be rational, and better, and responsiblely manage state property, with the property of all. Because we've got a lot of this ruse. If, on the one hand, we are responsible for everything, and on the other hand, we would not have given leverage for any change to the government, it may also change something in the organization, which rationalises or increases any job or whatever, then something is wrong with understanding the power of every single person, because elections are, therefore, to give the mandate and to monitor and evaluate the whole operation and ultimately to accompany it with better or worse assessments after the end of the term and, of course, I will not support this amendment to Article 2.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u63	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss it, please? I see, just one hand. Mr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u64	Thank you very much. It was really heartwarming, Mr. Anderlich, when I listened to you. Look. There are no problems on the opposition's side, I don't see any gallbladders on you, etc. Actually, they're smiling faces, and so am I. The point is somewhere else. This isn't about any gallbladder on you. You will adopt this law. The opposition, however, is in Parliament to draw attention to the truth that the coalition is concealing. And there's a lot of cover-up here, isn't there, Minister? By the way, you will have the opportunity to give me another lecture because you still have a lot of time to answer the following questions, and perhaps, Mr Anderlich will come forward. First time. Why is an emergency session necessary? Indeed, emergency meetings are possible for the security and defence interests of the State. Please, for an answer in one sentence. What does this have to do with the country's security and defence interests? I don't think so. Another time. Try to answer me why you first suggested that this law should follow a regular procedure? I should have a meeting like you set me up, 10. 5. I have been appointed by Mr Gantar. However, I subsequently received a request that it must be sooner so that we will have to deal with this today. Try to link it to the Small Work Act and the referendum that's going on. For I believe that we are doing this in order to provide the government with 100,000 euros and nothing else. I also ask for an answer to the question why you have not complied with the Constitutional Court's decision for two years and now it is necessary to meet urgently in order to comply with it. I don't know why. What security is now, and the defense of the state, I don't see it. Try to answer me again why, by a decision of the Constitutional Court, the coalition MPs justify this so "outside the corner" would say in the inn, you are also giving the government 100,000 euros for each referendum. Try to explain, my doctorate isn't enough, I guess they haven't taught me much and you might be able to explain it. I have a problem. Look. How are we now going to be proposing the Small Work Referendum and all future candidates, namely, the people are waking up and apparently getting together 40,000 signatures within 10 days. This time is coming. Now try to explain, not to me, and look at the camera, and try to explain, because I'm not going to represent it anyway. Try to explain how to get 40,000 people out of their pockets 100 000 Euros of taxpayer money and give it to the government so that the same government will convince them that they are wrong with their money. Try to connect with that, and answer me the question, because I will not understand - the camera. Why should taxpayers who demand a referendum pay their campaign themselves, workers, farmers, students, anyone, why the government should have 100 000 euros available for each referendum of their money. So they pay themselves, and the government takes their money to paint them. I can't do that. My knowledge doesn't go that far. You won't convince me either, so it'll make it easier for the viewers there. You see, these things don't go together here, and even no gallantness, Mr. Anderlich, there's no problem, but the problem you have is the camera. The camera is a problem and nothing else is a problem. This should be explained to people, because that is not how you will explain it, because you cannot explain it to people, and when we look at the end of the month, and you see a survey, the hell is that this situation is simply such that in coalition water flows into the throat and because this people comes with referendums because it wakes up, every day is louder, but now you need 100,000 euros for each referendum. See, that's the problem. That's the problem. It is good that some sober votes have also been cast by the coalition, including Mr Kontić, if I am not mistaken, under the law on RTV, that we have not abolished any third programme and that you have not abolished any third programme. Okay, well, then that's what the people said, not to that law about RTV, so the problem is that you buy time to get rid of it. But there's no solution, that's the devil. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u65	Mr. Anderlich. It's a replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u66	However, something has only succeeded in bringing Mr Gorenak into a better position, because this approach was completely different from two or three hours ago. But I'm also sorry that you don't have any more time, because I'm sure you'll feel like you're calling the secretary first of all, but as far as emergency meetings are concerned, when you ask. I am sure that the abuse in this National Assembly is essential too much, and you yourself know it, especially on your committee how it goes. What about the urgency, what about the urgency, what about the reference, what about the delay, and so on. So there's no point in losing words here, but just saying that it was an assessment that time is right, just as no time is right for any debate. It is when you decide to put something on the agenda and it is necessary to tell the public that no one is taking 100,000 euros out of their pocket, but that it is, in any case, intended by law, in accordance with the rules on what can be financed, in what way and how this spending should also be shown. The fact that it's limited to 100,000 is, of course, absolutely correct and good. Although again, it is not possible to say that the euro will be clear, but more than before. By telling those who are trying to understand that it is not a particular thing in the back, as you say, and as an attempt I do not know any deception and so on, but that it is what you say, for what you say all along. Even if you answer us a hundred times, you won't convince us. You can say whatever you want, that's what we think, and you won't convince us, and that's what no, no. [[...]] You start with that and then you ask me if I can explain something, but you won't convince me anyway. Then why do we have to explain ourselves for hours and hours? Yes, it is not for the cameras to talk as a Member representing 90 of us, all equal, and we all represent this legislative branch of power. Once we are one in a position, one in the opposition and another in the next term, nothing changes. It is a responsibility, if you want, to these taxpayers, who are now somehow trying to prove to them that something is being taken from their pockets and that they must therefore not be favored by both this authority and this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u67	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u68	I have questions to answer. The Government has adopted a bill amending these two articles 23. 12. 2010 and sent it to parliamentary hearing. In view of the fact that it was only two articles proposed to be amended after a reduced procedure, not following an urgent procedure, the proposal did not propose to be included in an extraordinary meeting, it was obvious that circumstances had arisen for an extraordinary meeting and that a qualified number of Members and Members had also proposed the inclusion of this bill in this meeting. The government has never proposed an emergency procedure. I have already told the Committee on Internal Policy why we are coming to this work now. The public hearing of the comprehensive novel, where we are thoroughly responding to a number of shortcomings in the regulation, has undergone a public debate and has received so many comments that we have prepared it again. It's better to think of solutions, at least that's my point of view. However, it is imperative that at least those urgent things, which are also important for the current referendum time, be settled if you wish. And if you would like to make it less complicated and more challenging to answer your provocative question why the government is now searching so terribly for the possibility of spending 100,000 euros for the current referendum campaigns, you would answer very simply - because we do not want to hide the use of these funds for election campaigns, as you did in 2007. Maybe it'll burn it up a little bit more. The former government has spent, respected public, taxpayer's money, your money, from your pocket for the referendum campaign to spend its current resources at the Government Communications Office or government service for the referendum campaign. They do not recognise this today, but the Court of Auditors found this in 2007, when it revised the final accounts for 2007. So, respectable people, if you want us to be more popular next, and this government, of course, will not receive so many readings, we will do this according to the pattern of the previous government, because this is an obvious pattern, which is imposed on us also at this moment where we say transparently, see, it is true that the government is also limited in the context of the referendum campaign, it is absolutely impossible to tell it that it is not an interested entity as defined by the Referendum and Electoral Campaign Act as a beneficiary, and it is my opinion that when you protected your law in 2007, you did this legitimately, because I have never in all of your deliberations on the committee also made it clear to your problem. We wanted to convince you that it was right to arrange this, as the Court of Auditors warns. So I hope that I have now been more convincing when I have communicated this in a more transparent human way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u69	Mr. Janko Weber, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Well, if we were talking about referendums and the financing of referendums, it would be much easier if we already had a law under the roof on this subject today, which would determine that a referendum outcome should be taken into account if it was attended by more than 50% of all electoral beneficiaries. At that point, I think that there would be no problem at all as to whether or not we would need any additional funds or not for the government to be more involved in this process at the time of the referendum campaign, and that it is also very precise to try to explain and not least to approach people, so that, as a rule, half-truths or some populist statements, which usually also happen in Parliament, are trying to explain. In fact, the simplest thing is to say: "The law is bad, the law is bad because it affects or reduces the rights of it," and only this bad thing in the public is trying to produce, because the fact is that the media prefers to report news that is somehow more pleasant to the ears of readers or viewers and listeners and if you want to pair it up or explain it in more detail, of course you need significantly more resources and time to explain such half-truth or sometimes even a lie. By allowing the government not only to participate in this campaign but also to participate in its premises, this decision is certainly a response to the non-critical call for referendums in Slovenia. I think there are very few countries around the world that call so many referendums and things like that in Slovenia. That there is no great interest in this flood of referendums, there is also evidence of participation in the referendums, which are generally smaller from the referendum to the referendum, and these are the issues that we should speak more seriously about, but the fact is that there is also a need for wider consensus in Parliament and it will be interesting whether we will reach agreement here to raise this threshold of electoral participation in the referendum and whether it is that measure to not least reduce the use of public funds. Each referendum is the consumption of public funds. This is also used many times, mainly because of the interest of capital. Capital doesn't want any change at some point, and of course it manipulates the public one way or another. And then it is necessary to prepare, again, more difficult answers, broader answers, and this is never easy. By supporting this proposal, and I think it is also high time that we really take a step further and reduce these referendums and the possibility of voting, proposing as far as possible today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u71	I'm still opening the application. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u72	Thank you very much. As is clear to all, we probably agree that the referendums are too much and also an attempt to be successful on a flowery Sunday when the voters received the instruction from the rostrums. Earlier, one of the SDS members was almost crying about how money is taken from a worker, a taxpayer – 100,000 euros, their money. How much does this session cost when we try to convince an MP who doesn't understand anything that he should understand? And this kind of meeting, it's too much to regret. Taxpayers' money is not taken because they will not therefore have higher taxes, but if we have many referendums, some development programmes, new jobs and so on, they will be questioned. Forty thousand signatures were easily collected. It would be interesting to find out how much these signatures were paid and how many citizens and citizens are, without underestimating, but it was also seen on TV that they did not even know what they were signing. And the marriage, the pardon, the referendum on the Retirement Act is something like that. People do not know why pensioners are against changing this law, how it harms young populations and so on. Well, opponents, or those who propose a referendum, have many opportunities with flyers, not least with freemen and other ways to save and persuade people. And we know that if you look at the reports, any of them, they make things as bad as possible. The media is making a lot of money to do that. Today it has already been said, the President of the Government is in the United States, and this is one disaster. But if he gets a job for our companies or loans for the needs of our banks and so on, it doesn't matter, but you have to spit everything from A to Z. Any change, nothing can be done. It's an opposition method, but it's getting rougher and rougher. Discontinuation or thinking about rationalizing maternity care — in Brežice, the SDS had its own campaign, a press conference, and I don’t know what. In Brežice, they sterilize women by mistake. Such matters are still, and could be mentioned, of course, about the neighbourhood aid, I am reading one disaster today, the neighbor will not be able to help the neighbor. It is, media and otherwise, that you can also, with some patheticness here in Parliament, by moaning, crying, laughing, by making sure that someone is right. Something has been said about the State Council before. Let me just say for the intermezza, take the last one of them, we don't have a newspaper, the National Assembly doesn't have one. Take their last paper and look at the photos of the President of the Council of State, 19 of them are in the bulletin. What do I need a paper like that for? But it doesn't matter, the State Council is just driving its policy and it's happening what's going on. I will oppose the amendments, and, of course, I will support this law in the desire that those who propose the referendums do indeed, as has already been said here today, take some responsibility. If the referendum fails, it is necessary to bring a portion, whether it is the government or it is the proposer or anyone else. I feel the same way about public tendering, if a firm complains indefinitely and the investment does not take place if it proves to be greedy, I would say that this complaint always takes place on the invitation to tender, must carry the portion financially and differently. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u73	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u74	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. I must say that when a person listens to the dramatic performances of my neighbor's visa, in fact, it would not be necessary to be in Cankar's home on 7 February. Here we have great theatre performances that move from satire to tragedy and back again. In fact, they don't say anything real, like fiction in drama, like fiction in comedy, so is fiction in these performances. I'd like to point out something. When we praise the initiators of the Small Work referendum, we ask nothing about how they were and why signatures were collected so quickly. I saw attractive young girls and boys in Cyprus who stopped everyone who walked past the stands or booths in front of the administrative unit. You know, you need to know that these guys and the girls got paid for their jobs, which means they got paid for their signatures, not for the hours they stood there. And, of course, the effectiveness of their signature collection was very high. They were not paid on the basis of the Small Work Act, but were paid on the basis of the Law on the Student Organisation of the Republic of Slovenia. After the student work they were paid, which is reserved only for those who are regular students, but we know how this student status is actually abused to work through student travel, people who are unemployed and thus the market for grey and black work is expanding. We will have a referendum on a small work that will cost between €4 million and €5 million. And now the problem is that, in this referendum campaign, the two governments, which has drawn up both laws that know exactly why they have prepared them, who know exactly what the positive effects of this law have been in the debate on both laws, have agreed to the whole series of improvements proposed by the opposition, trade unions, students and so on, and we have accepted them in the National Assembly, but they now say that the government must not enter into the referendum campaign, as let us say, the most familiar with the whole issue, because it is not only the issue of the law itself, but it is the issue of the whole problem of creating problems or issues that we have introduced into the law. Personally, I hope to explain many things to people about those laws that I also know about. However, the vast majority of those who have the right to campaign under the current law on the referendum campaign, those who have taken the initiative to call for a referendum, those who have collected signatures, especially in small part, can argue that it is behind this law and this referendum, with opposition to this law and this referendum in particular the interest of capital. And it's not the capital of the United States of America, China, India, and what I know from where, but the capital in the fertilizer bulls that grew in the student work in this country. I can't put it any other way. It's a piece of shit in college. And these pussies need to be removed once, if not otherwise, by a small piece of legislation. And I hope that the referendum campaign will be organized to open people's eyes. Therefore, the Government must also be able to legally, not only legitimately, use money legally to make people aware of the full range of benefits, but also of the weaknesses of laws that come to the referendum. Now I'm gonna say something else. The government should not use public money for a referendum campaign. Today, on the Committee on Local Self-Government, we listened to our own and other tirades about the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran. At the same time, there was nothing to be said about how the referendum campaign on the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran took place. So that the campaigners in Ankara were not allowed, they did not have room in public posters to run the campaign, while the Koper Municipality occupied all the cities with its propaganda material. Here is the question of what is legal here, what is legitimate, what is democratic and whether such a campaign is fair and fair. Well, a campaign in which the Government would occupy all poster cities in the Republic of Slovenia, I do not believe that it is possible to organise and implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u75	Mr. Pukšič, you have two seconds available.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u76	Thank you very much. We have told you here today that we do not agree to an argument of power, or we have told you that we have the power of argument both in the opposition and in the legal and legislative service, and you convince the Slovenian public that you are the only argument of power [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr. Puksich. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 3rd item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on the establishment of municipalities and on the determination of their areas after a reduced procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 6 Members with the first-signed France Bogovic. The proposal for a law shall be held at the 22nd emergency meeting, on 9. 2. 2011 addressed by the Home Committee for Local Self-Government and Regional Development. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the bill was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Anton Anderlich has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u78	Your Honor! Today, we do not have a debate on whether an individual Member or a Member respects the Constitutional Court's decision or has listened more, has listened to the arguments of opponents to support the law that is in the procedure, but we have a simple fact that we decide or to take note of what we cannot decide and decide on because 8 Members do not allow us to do so. While this is in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, with the interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, it is far from what the content of the Rules of Procedure and the content of the Council. The provision of the Rules of Procedure, which is interpreted in this way, certainly cannot excuse those who are in a fig tree today to all others who have not been members of the Committee on Local Self-Government to decide on a matter which has been so-called several times by the National Assembly that we do not, however, accept it. It cannot be understood that the same decision of the Constitutional Court is decided twice by the National Assembly. It is not about auctioning this here, who is for the congregation of Ankaran, who is for the congregation of Mirna, who is for the congregation of Zgornji Duplek or any other, but it is about deciding whether individual stakeholders meet constitutional, legal and other substantive conditions to reach a decision in the National Assembly. That's what this is about. It must be reiterated that the National Assembly, on the basis of a positive opinion of the Government, which found that the area of Ankara met all the conditions under the then applicable law adopted by the previous Government, met the conditions that, and some who would say no here today, were blindly voting for that law, even being loud at the time. But obviously that wasn't enough to figure that out then. Nor was it enough for the National Assembly to send citizens and citizens to the referendum in this area, to announce the results that have been used to say that the will has been bent on the side of the establishment of the congregation, irrespective of the fact that this National Assembly has adopted the law to establish this municipality, then there was no argument to change the will of a certain part of the Members, when, in the last moment, the State Council carried out its vote and demanded a re-decision on the law. Regardless of the fact that individual Members were then cooking stew or anything else when they were to vote in the National Assembly, or whatever else did not justify the failure of the National Assembly to do so. Later, what has rarely happened is that citizens and citizens are deprived of the will to go to the polls and express their will to the electorate. This happened with the temporary suspension of the elections in both Koper and Trebnje. At the Liberal Democracy Club, of course, we do not feel that we have the right to reconsider things that have been decided without further arguments. The arguments that are being heard today, czech, are jeopardizing Luke Koper's vital interest and similar things are extracted from the vine. For Luka, the national location plan and development programmes shall be adopted by the State and not by the local community. However, it is right for the local community to give its opinion and it must be taken into account as far as possible if it is not in excessive conflict with national interest, with the public interest of all citizens. We regret that this has happened, and I believe there will ever be any happiness on the part of the people of Ankara.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u79	Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u80	Thank you very much. With regard to the Law establishing municipalities and determining its territory, as for Ankaran, it sometimes seems that there are more and more lovers of Eastern philosophy in the hall who believe in the eternal return of the same and it seems that it will happen again sometime, but I would say, only the expression of the mantra does not mean that it must be applied. In all of this, it is probably the worst thing to do, however, is to show the power of the National Assembly to make any decisions on a case-by-case basis. Thus, because of our interests, we are probably on different sides that there is a gap that should not be in the decision-making process, but we have already witnessed it at least twice. The main problem is that interest-based relationships are established, not on the basis of professional arguments. We are in the Group of Unaffiliated Members, so we have reconsidered whether we can still persist in our previous positions or not, and we note simply the following - we have always been in the position that fragmentation of Slovenia into many small municipalities is not a good solution. We have always been in the position that in modern European flows there is no way to find them as we see them. We have also maintained these views after the Constitutional Court has written its decision, which we also consider not to have been relevant arguments, but that it has been more authoritarian and in force written than based on a thorough rational explanation. Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members in this process have not changed our views. But what's interesting is that they were changed by the government. When, for the first time, the basic concept in the field of local self-government in the coalition is not a concept of fragmentation, but is the concept of connections, reinforcements, when we were, then we witness the conversion, when the government proposed the law and as we are witnessing today some strangeness, when the government has no position or government service, which now represents the government here. The position that you do not object to anything without arguing it is of the same value as it would not have been, especially if it was written in three short paragraphs, and if we want to get to a larger number, let's list the sentences and you'll find that there are six. All six of these sentences are designed to determine what happened in the past. There was no argument, no expertise, no support for decisions or for Members' reflection, in short, nor was it that the government service would look at at at least what was written by the government's legislative service, probably not because it is not most inclined to do what it now publishes as no objection. In doing so, we can only find that the government and the government services no longer have the power to discuss these political debates, but only so much so that they are a little blushing that we have not seen ourselves on any side with determination and argument. So, even if we did vote, the unrelated members of the Solidarity Group would be opposed to the establishment of new municipalities that do not meet the legal requirements.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u81	Mr Roberto Battelli has the floor on behalf of the National Communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u82	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ninety-nine Members did send their time to the referendum, however, without the legal conditions for the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran. Twenty-seven lobbyists were told that it was at work to achieve this result and that these people were put in a very disadvantaged position because these 39 Members were unable to tell them that what they wanted did not have legal conditions. And it is clear on whom is the responsibility for the situation that has arisen. Ankaran experienced the support of 39 Members because he was a Siamese twin with Mirna, who has something that profoundly distinguishes the initiative from the Ankaran initiative, and that is if there is no other complete agreement of the place where Mirna is located where people live. Trebnje agrees, and the neighboring congregations agree. After this, Mirna is absolutely indisputable, although there is indeed a question or meeting all the conditions. That's one important difference. At the moment Ankaran was left alone, I am simplifying, of course, he no longer received the support needed to establish himself as a congregation. And these reasons that have been cited in another committee to the effect that the law has been enforced are still there and will continue to exist. At the same time, it raises a very serious legal question about the nature of this procedure, an extremely serious legal question also raised by the Government's Legislative Service, whether or not the whole procedure for the establishment of such a municipality is not necessary. And here we are running into the Law on Local Self-Government, where the only condition for establishing municipalities is the number of people, which is 5,000, which I think is not the best solution. According to this criterion, Koper should have 9 municipalities and a path for irrational even in the given moments of mindless fragmentation, further fragmentation of Slovenia, still exist and thus it will not be possible to resist this trend, which lives in the ambitions of certain political figures. And not in local self-government, the right to local self-government and everything we know are constitutional and also international standards for the quality functioning of the country.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u83	Mrs Breda Pecan, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u84	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. In the parliamentary group, we first talked about not even presenting a position regarding, not acceptance, but merely an awareness of the outcome of the vote on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, where the Law on Amendments to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and on the Design of Their Areas was empty by vote 8 against and 8 against and one abstentions, and thus the possibility of setting up the municipality of Ankaran fell. In doing so, I repeat what I said in my previous marriage. Everything shows that we've become law-breaking specialists, so we have the shell when they say it's like fear that there's nothing out there, but inside it's empty. By eliminating the law in this way, we have again caused the substance of this one-time complication, this is the confrontation of the positions of 90 Members and Members of the National Assembly with the position of the Constitutional Court, because the Committee has again stopped the procedure that could lead to a sovereign State assembly with arguments for and arguments against decisions in the direction that would prevail in the National Assembly. I am convinced that all 90 Members of Parliament and Members have a position on this issue. There are many laws, many acts that the National Assembly has adopted, in which perhaps some of us, too, can say that we do not have a particular position, because we do not know the subject. I am convinced that the establishment of the congregation of Ankara has aroused in all of us so much interest and so much commitment that we have some opinion on this matter and it would be very useful if we were here in this hall at the end, each one of us were to tell what his opinion was, decide on this matter, how - for or against, set up or not set up a new congregation. But we didn't get those options again. I must say that one of the Members who voted on the committee did the most right. He said he would vote on the committee to give the entire National Assembly the opportunity to decide whether or not to vote on the matter, and he had already said in advance that he would vote against the law at the meeting of the National Assembly. If the majority of the committee were to do so, it would be up to me to decide today, and I would be able to make the same decision as I think and colleagues against it could decide what they think. Unfortunately, we don't have that option today. And there's something else I'd like to say when there's talk about consistency and principle. Today we have also heard this lecture on the Committee on Local Self-Government, some people, and I would like to point out that, when we voted on 25 September on the establishment of two municipalities and the change in the name of one municipality, there was a vote of 39 to 33, 39 to 33, 33 to 33 against, of which 39 were 21 members and members voted in favour of a group. 21. Now, if the interpretation is as we have heard from Mr Battelli, that this was because the twin was Mirna and Ankaran, then this is a re-justification, a further justification for the Constitutional Court's view that this was an arbitrary decision, which we then proved by establishing the Mirna municipality and we do not want to establish the Ankaran municipality. The technical reasons for the differences, the opinion, the support, I do not know what else to do with Mirno and Ankaran are, of course, attracted to the hair because there was a positive opinion of both citizens and nationals at the referendum, and therefore the National Assembly decided arbitrarily in this case. I'm sorry it happened. Our group has a very different opinion on this, and it is in itself good that we have not reached such a conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u85	Mr Zvonko Lah has the floor on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u86	Respectable colleagues and colleagues. Mr. Vice President. In the process of establishing new municipalities, the Government found that several areas met the conditions under the then applicable law. However, only two areas were approved by the National Assembly for the Municipality of Mirna and Ankaran. At that time, the National Assembly acted arbitrarily, as the Administrative Court also found. Since several areas met all the conditions under Article 13a of the Law on Local Self-Government in force at that time, the National Assembly should be able to carry out an inquiry referendum in all areas and, because it is not, has caused injustice to all those areas that have met the conditions. Among those given the opportunity is the area of the Municipality of Ankara, which is an integral part of the Municipality of Koper, for which the Constitutional Court issued a decision of non-compliance with the Constitution in 1995. The establishment of the municipality of Ankara does not eliminate the consequences of the unconstitutionality of the Municipality of Koper in the 1995 decision. In the SDS Group, we believe that non-compliance with the Constitution should be resolved in full, the entire Koper municipality. In its recommendation 2001 the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities of the Council of Europe advised the Slovenian authorities not to divide the municipality of Koper or keep the city the way it is. In determining the conditions for the establishment of the municipality of Ankara, the Government should take into account the 1995 Constitutional Court’s decision and should not share what belongs together. However, other areas which had even better conditions did not provide for a decision-making option at the referendum. At the time these procedures were under way, the Government proposed and the National Assembly adopted an amendment to the Law on Local Self-Government, which eliminates all conditions for the establishment of new municipalities, except for the number of 5,000 inhabitants. This means, in our opinion, that the Government wanted to prevent others who would have the opportunity, through the Administrative and Constitutional Court, to have the opportunity of an exploratory referendum, to prevent this possibility and to adopt a law that would probably have strange consequences in the next term when new proposals came, since the number of 5,000 inhabitants means that it can occur in a specific area that has 5,000 inhabitants without any other conditions, because they are not in law. This marriage is significantly worse than the previous one, which allowed for some exceptions. This law was adopted last June. And now you come with a new law that is contrary to the applicable law on the establishment of congregations, and you want this law to go through and that the congregation of Ankaran be established. The government does not oppose the continuation of the procedure. It is said that the Government proposes that such a law be passed despite an adopted law under which this area has no conditions. You will have to attribute this confusion to yourself in the ruling coalition, as well as the consequences that will result from the adoption of such a law as is currently in force.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr Franco Juri will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u88	Thank you, President, for your word. Even today, the National Assembly did not offer the best performance to the public. He didn't offer an idea where we could say with our heads up, we know exactly what the rule of law is, we know exactly what constitutionality means. Approximately what happened last time, except this time the Members voted by 8 votes and 8 against, and the effect is similar to that of the previous meeting of the Committee on Local Self-Government. The SDS voted in full against, and the Slovenian National Party voted in full against, and thus proved in fact some consistency or inconsistencies with previous votes and initiatives. Unfortunately, two members of the coalition also voted against, Member DeSUS and Member of our Zares Group. The fact is that we are once again faced with a pat position that raises serious questions about the attitude of the National Assembly to the content cited in the Constitutional Court's decision. Indeed, we have not always had a unified opinion on Ankaran in the Group of Members. There were quite a few differences, and we voted differently, and in the end, with the exception of Mr Trofenik, we all united in the common denominator of respect for and serious respect for the content of the Constitutional Court decision. And what are these contents? The first is clear: The National Assembly decided arbitrarily, after denying support to Ankaran, even though it confirmed the procedures for the referendum and even after the referendum. At that time, we voted and confirmed the outcome of the referendum. One more thing is clear to us from the Constitutional Court: we voted that the equality of citizens and citizens has been violated. In the case of Ankara, there has been severe discrimination, which we reaffirmed today on the Committee on Local Self-Government. This discrimination is clear and stems from a concentration of interests that prevents the Ankarans from having similar happiness, fate as other citizens in other municipalities, which were even smaller and some even less fulfilling, the legal conditions. Some congregations even arose against the will of most of the participants in the referendum. Last year, the referendum on Ankaran was of a consultative nature. Most have spoken for the establishment of a congregation. Then the Constitutional Court's decision told us that we had violated at least two principles which could be attributed to the Constitution. Nevertheless, some and today eight Members have prevented them from deciding, discussing and voting on the law under which 23 Members were signed; 23 Members have requested an extraordinary meeting which we do not have now, because eight Members have been identified against this law in the home body. Of course, the rules of procedure allow this to happen, but I want to highlight the paradox of such situations. For the second time, we're in front of this paradox, and it doesn't seem to bother us at all. It does not bother us that we oppose the enforcement of the Constitutional Court decision and that we are with a colleague, a friend of mags. I agree with the culprits that it is not going blindly to the decisions of the Constitutional Court, but it is necessary to deal with what is said in them in a responsible manner. And we didn't get to this treatment today. We're not here. This is another disgrace to the rule of law, including professional politics. We are Members, we are paid to decide responsibly and to take due account of what the highest constitutional authority tells us, namely, the Constitutional Court. Unfortunately, we are not going to make that decision, so we are not going to vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u90	Good evening. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have re- tabled the Act establishing the Municipality of Ankaran with the desire to comply with the Constitutional Court's decision in the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia and finally to resolve the reputation of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia. Members of the Slovenian People's Party regret today's event on the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development. We are simply appalled, outraged, and do not understand the duality of both the work of the coalition and the work of the opposition, which in any way wants to prevent the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran. The rejection of the law on the home labour body continues to maintain an unconstitutional state, which, in our view, is unacceptable for a normal democratic state. This raises the question of how to proceed, not only how to proceed with the establishment of the municipality of Ankaran, but also how to proceed with the functioning of the National Assembly, the Constitutional Court and the functioning of the rule of law in general. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that this is one of the biggest crimes against the rule of law. Clearly, we were Members and residents of Ankara abused to conceal local, lobbyist interests, which clearly prohibited the establishment of the allowed municipality of Ankara in that country by constitutional decision. This is a case where more than obviously local policy controls state policy in a very sophisticated and subtle way. It is unheard of that a strange informal coalition with procedural measures has once again prevented the establishment of a municipality for which the people of Ankara themselves have mostly spoken. Where are those who now have the full mouth of the rule of law and the equal rights of citizens? This action has made it clear that the people of Ankara are second-rate citizens, without constitutional rights, and their will is irrelevant. Thus, once again, the legislative branch of power has once more arbitrarily put itself above the judicial branch, and above all the referendum will of the people and inhabitants of Ankara. In the past, in the legislative process of establishing new congregations, there have always been very unusual coalitions, which have established new congregations or prevented the establishment of new congregations, and there is nothing else in the last case of the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran, which has been shown again today. The controversy with the Constitutional Court’s constitutional decision has clearly become Slovenian national sport, which means the full evaluation of the Constitutional Court and its judges, and the establishment of the National Assembly over the Constitutional Court’s decision. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we also find events of great interest in connection with the operation and control of the operation of the port in the past, as well as disputed real estate transactions that were undoubtedly not useful for the development of Luke. Significantly, some individuals who have been involved in these controversial business decisions are now at the head of an informal coalition fighting for the development of Luke and against the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran. We are confident that the establishment of an independent municipality of Ankara would allow for better control of Luke's business and more transparent operation. As far as the rights of the Italian national community are concerned, we are convinced that members of this community living in the area of Ankara would have the least comparable, if not a better condition for their operation than they have today in the Municipality of Koper. Members of the Slovenian People's Party stand firmly in the position that the will of the inhabitants of the National Community of Ankara should be respected and that the decision of the Constitutional Court should be followed consistently and that the people should be allowed to exercise the constitutional right to local self-government. The decision of the Constitutional Court, in paragraph 2, imposes on the National Assembly that the finding of non-compliance with the Constitution must be abolished within two months of the publication of this Decision in the Official Journal of the Republic of Slovenia, which means until 7 February. We are also outraged that some Members who oppose the establishment of the municipality of Ankara are hiding behind the Committee's decisions and do not allow public meetings of the National Assembly to decide the fate of the people and people of Ankara, despite the fact that we have already taken numerous decisions in the Assembly of State in favour of the establishment of the municipality of Ankara. Dear fellows! We set up a mirror today. I'm afraid the image in the mirror is so hard to look at. I hope that voters and voters of the Republic of Slovenia will also recognize these images.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u91	Thank you. Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u92	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! Allow me to present the position of the DeSUS Group on the Law establishing municipalities and their areas. If I am not mistaken, the fifth time today is on the agenda of this law and the fifth time on the agenda of the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran. In all these cases, it was a very different interpretation, either at our highest legal institutions, such as the Constitutional Court, as it is not least on the working body, as it is not least in individual parliamentary groups, or in the National Assembly itself. So, the problem is difficult, so the opinions on the establishment of the Municipality of Ankaran are different. The establishment of the congregation of Ankaran is, in fact, a decision in one instance. We have never voted to establish the congregation of Ankaran. Some of the reasons for this were defiant. Among these reasons, I should point out that the Italian national community was very opposed to the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran and against this law. It referred to the 7th item of the Statute of the London Memorandum and of the Agreement. There was also a group of experts, eminent experts in the field of law, who also represented the view that the establishment was not substantiated. The first procedure, or final procedure, for the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran, was concluded at the 24th regular meeting, 1. 2. when the State Assembly finally completed the procedure. The procedure initiated on the proposal of the Slovenian People's Party was concluded today on the working body. In this urgent process, there are in particular new legal consequences and legal reasons. This is the third indent of the Law on Local Self-Government, which says that the municipality meets the conditions if it has 5,000 inhabitants. This is a condition that shows from the outset that there are no real arguments for the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran. And not just those terms that I'm listing. Let me say that the Democratic Party of the Retired has firmly written in its programme that it is against division into small congregations. And that's our position today. That was the position as long as we voted against the establishment of the congregation of Ankaran. So there are no other political reasons. It's all about that. On the basis of the provisions of our programme, the DeSUS Municipal Committee in Cyprus also voted. And that's what our party or the parliamentary group is for right now against the adoption of this law. We will, of course, pursue other objectives. We will pursue the goals of bringing municipalities together into larger associations, which will be able to provide the standard and all the needs they feel in local environments. We will also support the Law on the Promotion of Regional Development and also the Law on the Provinces. These are basic things for us, productive things that we have to deal with. However, the division of congregations into small congregations is to be completed once in our country, and we would no longer have to do so in the National Assembly, although it seems to me that there will be someone who will try to establish a smaller congregation. But as it has been so far, it will be in the future. The DeSUS Group will only vote on the basis of arguments and solely on the basis of our work programme and the party's programme against further vaccination and fine-tuning of municipalities in smaller parts. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u94	Good evening, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary! Mr. Vice President, thank you for your word. In the Slovenian National Party, I have been in the National Assembly for 11 years, we have warned for a number of years that Members are violating themselves or I will say that Members themselves have violated the applicable legislation that was in force at the time on the establishment of municipalities, whether this authority, which was called the LDS, will be that authority, which was called the SDS, whenever it has always been, if the political will has been established by the municipalities, regardless of whether they have not met the conditions or under the previous law, which has been nicer and which has set more conditions. We have always opposed the increase in the number of municipalities for many years; 210 is already too many. However, as regards today's debate or the possibility of explaining the groups of Members without prejudice to the past and the decision of the Constitutional Court, the proceedings have been closed. It ended by saying to the National Assembly at the last session, "The Municipality of Ankaran does not." And the procedure was completed. Today, as we have discussed the proposed law, a new procedure has begun. Everyone has the right to initiate a new procedure, but this new procedure must be followed by the Law establishing the Communities adopted last year and this law has been amended so that it has only one clear definition. It can be a municipality if it has 5,000 and more inhabitants. I'm not opening a debate on whether that's right or wrong. It would probably be right if there were other conditions that were essential to the congregation’s life. But that's how it is. And even if we were to make that decision today, and if we were to honor God’s law once again, we would not be able to establish the congregation of Ankara because it does not meet the legal requirements. And now talking about what someone was deciding, how someone was deciding at the time and at the time and then, I could tell some interesting story, and I wouldn't. I don't want to interfere with other areas. But what I was more concerned about today was that on my mother's working body, the distinguished Madam Minister presented the position of the Government, which was: "The government does not oppose the law we discussed." We then suspended the meeting in order to receive the opinion of the Government's legislative service, which was diametrically opposite to the Government's position. Which means if we have a quartet, one will play Brahms, the other Mozart, the third Strauss, and the fourth one, I don't know, will play Privska. And that's not the kind of music that works. That's what I'm worried about. Besides, I'd like to be very honest. In the Slovenian National Party, we do not like dealing with issues of impatience to the mayor of Koper in such a way that a new municipality is established.If the mayor of Koper does not like it, he should try to replace it in elections. But he probably won't make it because he's done a lot. At least you can see it. I don't know. That's for those who live there to judge. If anyone thinks they could get more money in this way, let this problem be solved in the urban world. That's right. There are two possibilities. First time. Once again, if they want to, they should have all the right, citizens and citizens of the Ankaran National Community to submit a proposal for the establishment of municipalities, but they know that this will not be the case under the new law. And a second time. If someone is wrong, he may submit a proposal for a law amending the Law on Local Self-Government, which will amend the conditions again. However, under no circumstances will the Slovenian National Party be present because we oppose, once again, the further fragmentation of the municipalities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u95	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, the National Assembly of 9 December 2009 notes that the legislative procedure on the proposal for a law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. POINT OF THE DAY, THIS IS A DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENTATION OF THE LEGISLATION OF INTERNATIONAL INVESTMENTS AND INTERNATIONALIZATION OF ENTERPRISE INVESTMENTS The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration of the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the Minister of Economy, Mag. Darji Radic. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u96	Good evening. Dear President, honourable Members, Members of Parliament! You therefore have before you a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and Internationalisation of Enterprises which regulates the legal basis for granting financial incentives for foreign direct investment under a specific procedure by concluding direct contracts between the Ministry and the project firm on the basis of a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia. The main reason for adopting or proposing amendments to the existing law is the amendment of the Public Finance Act recently adopted, which provides that the conclusion of direct contracts is only possible in exceptional cases, including where the procedure for allocating funds is laid down in the sectoral law. According to current legislation, the current regulation states that these direct contracts for foreign direct investment are concluded on the basis of a regulation. This, of course, no longer goes hand in hand with the Public Finance Act, which is why we are now transferring this area or criteria, criteria and conditions for direct allocation of incentives to this law. This is actually the key reason and also the key content of the bill. Moreover, in these amendments to the law we also set out specific conditions for the allocation of funds for foreign direct investment. In doing so, I must point out that, while the law already applies, smaller foreign direct investment is granted on the basis of a call for tender on the basis of certain criteria. In this case, we are talking about those major foreign direct investments, those which are also of greater importance, if I may say so, for the Slovenian economy and therefore for these investments, which are allowed to speak directly to the Ministry and to the Government for the granting of individual incentives, also set specific criteria. The criteria differ from those I call small, foreign direct investment in that we propose in the proposal that resources can only be allocated without a call for tender if the investment generates at least 100 % more newly opened jobs than in the Regulations on Investments Assigned on the basis of a call for proposals. If I may mention here, this means, for example, that if an investor applies to a public tender, it is necessary for a processing activity, if an investment in this area, to provide at least 50 jobs, pardon, 25 jobs over the next three years. In the case of direct confirmation, it must provide at least 50 jobs, which is not such a terrible condition. If it employs, say, development and research activities, it is a condition for it to employ at least 5 developers, in the case of direct confirmation, at least 10 developers, again in three years. These are the key differences. I think there's some distinction, given that this is also a different treatment of these investments, we still have to do it. But we are proposing another change. In particular, under the terms of the invitation to tender, we have so far stated in the Regulation that an investment is granted if it achieves a certain increase in the number of jobs, then whether the value of this investment exceeds EUR 12 million or if the Commission which decides on these investments finds that the investment is of particular importance. On the basis of experience, we estimate that these words "or" would be changed to "or/and" between the lines. We want to combine two criteria, whether or not the number of jobs can be a condition, but it must be ensured or established that it is the special interest of the State of Slovenia to invest in this investment and the other "or" that the value is 12 million euros, but the state must still say that the investment is of particular importance. These are changes from experience, including from the implementation of the current regulation, and we ask Members to adopt this proposal for a law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u97	Thank you. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han, Chairman of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u98	Thank you very much, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on the Economy is at its 22nd emergency meeting today, 9. 2. In 2011, the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and the Internationalisation of Businesses was considered as the parent labour force. The Chair's College is at its 92nd meeting, 4. 2. In 2011, it decided that the proposal for a law should be dealt with on an urgent basis. Representatives of the Ministry of the Economy and the Legal and Legislative Service took part in the meeting of the Committee. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined that proposal from the perspective of compliance with the Constitution and the legal system and from a legislative and technical point of view. In addition to the general comment, the Legislative and Legal Service also made specific comments on Articles 2 and 3 of the proposal. Most of the comments are taken into account in the amendment to Article 2 of the bill adopted by the Committee, which is also reflected in the report of the Committee. In the initial supplementary explanation of the members, the Minister of Economy presented the reasons for the adoption of the bill, its basic objectives and the main solution. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service also provided an additional explanation for the written opinion and stressed that their specific comments were duly taken into account in the amendment of the Group of Ambassadors to Article 2 of the bill. It also noted that the conditions and criteria for granting financial incentives should be laid down in the Regulation and not in law. From the law itself, the criteria should be known to the addressee. In its general comments, the ZPS replied to the debate by the Minister of Economy, who, with regard to the comment of the Legal and Legislative Service that the proposal does not provide legal protection, particularly stressed that the State has the right to judge which of the foreign investors will be granted funds which will consequently make a substantial contribution to the development of the Slovenian economy. If, of course, the criteria are met, the funds will be split, otherwise not. In the course of the discussion on the individual articles, the members of the Committee referred to the provisions of Articles 1 and 2 of the draft law. The vast majority of the members of the committee, both from the coalition and the opposition, supported the proposed legal text and its consideration under the urgent procedure, as they estimate that it is particularly important for foreign investments to be responsive quickly. In addition, the proposed solutions will provide 971 new jobs. Every new job is extremely valuable during the economic recession. The bill, in the opinion of the members of the committee, also brings about economic growth, an improvement in the economic situation of the country and thus its greater competitiveness and, finally, the internationalisation of Slovenian companies. However, some concerns were also expressed concerning the merits of the consideration of the draft law by emergency procedure. The observation was made that it was not understandable that conditions for the sharing of incentives for foreign direct investment would be exacerbated during the recession and large unemployment. A question has been raised regarding the provision of financial resources. With regard to the composition of the special commissions that will assess applications for authorisation of incentives, support for the opinion of the SPS is expressed, however, that the drafter of the law should listen to their warnings that the conditions or criteria for the allocation of funds should be defined in the law itself and not leave this to regulation in the sub-legislative act. With regard to the comments and questions raised, the Minister of Economy provided extensive explanations, which are also reflected in the Committee's report. In the course of the discussion, the Committee identified and adopted the proposed amendment of Article 2 of the Resais Group tabled. The Committee also voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In the light of the amendment adopted, the text of the amended law, which forms an integral part of the report, is prepared under the first paragraph of Article 133 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u99	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u100	Thank you very much. One of the unloved consequences of the crisis is, of course, the decline in investment and reduced aggregate demand. Whether it is the investments of the country or local communities or private investors, this has happened everywhere and the consequences, as we know, of the more plastics have been negative, so it may be good to repeat again today what was heard on the working body this morning, namely that interest in foreign investments in us is increasing. This law, which we are discussing today, has a function to speed them up. For we are in need of investment, of new jobs or of preserving existing jobs, as a desert of water, and therefore in the Group of Non-Related Members we share the belief that we must support this proposal for a law. So our support will be a week, because this provides a legal basis for accelerating investment and because there are two key innovations. The first of the novelties is the addition of an article which sets out the different definitions and also lists the definition of the project company in this article. It wasn't there before. In this sense, the title of the law may even be somewhat narrow, since project companies are also companies owned domestically and in which it is sufficient if the foreign participant is already 10 % or more in the ownership sense, so this is also the help of our domestic companies. Not just foreign companies, as it might appear in the title of the law if we read only the first part. However, if we read another part where the internationalisation of enterprises is concerned, this dilemma is slightly softened. As far as our group is concerned, yes, but not any investment, it is right that the law also lays down the conditions that must be ensured and it is right that these conditions are cumulative, as the Minister has already said in the introduction. In any event, it should also be borne in mind that these investments must constitute an important contribution to the development of the Slovenian economy. It is true that we are asking ourselves whether this syntagm is accurate enough or not, what will be assessed as a contribution, as an important or essential contribution to the Slovenian economy, because this definition is very plentiful and can hide anything under it, but we believe that the Commission will be appointed with appropriate criteria. We also have a few concerns about this committee, as the law provides that the Commission is appointed by three members, but there are no conditions for this, and we do not know who will make up this committee, so there is also a somewhat metaphorical assessment that there may be three astrologers on such a committee who will choose investments after they look at the stars. But that's probably not gonna happen. The Minister's argument that this will not happen was that the law listed the criteria, but the only criterion missing is the criterion of the essential benefit for the development of the economy. This is new, this cumulative condition is new and is not sufficiently fragmented. In the Group of Non-Related Members, we believe that it is also very important how contracts will be drawn up, because it is likely that the contracts will only set out or lay down the conditions for these aids to mean that the profits of these companies in Slovenia should be reinvested. There will be restrictions on salaries so that they will not be employed on minimum wages. Will there be provisions on the nature of the working relationship so that they will not only be working relationships for a certain period of time? And a whole series of other conditions will probably have to be ensured that this aid does not go empty.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Matevž Frangež will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u102	Respected and respected! Today we are talking about a minor change in legislation in which Slovenia has not shimmered for 20 years. Compared to comparable countries, Slovenia has a consistently low share of foreign direct investment, and those who would hope to be listed on one hand's fingertips among more reflective cases are previously due to the privatisation of former social property as the new greenfield investment. Undoubtedly, even though foreign direct investment sometimes has a harmful effect, it has a number of positive effects on the development of national economies. New jobs, transfer of technologies, growth of competences, and, last but not least, the social, social, economic and cultural growth of the environment in which they operate. In this respect, we would certainly like Slovenia to be more attractive to foreign direct investment in the past 20 years. We Social Democrats are committed, after we have tried to combat the negative effects of the economic and social crisis in this government, in order to feed this into the social situation of people, to increase the competitiveness of our economy and the necessary prerequisite is also that Slovenia becomes more attractive to foreign direct investment. We are not pretending to do so by considering today's law with one simple and relatively simple step, but we believe that today's legal change is also one stone in the mosaic of those necessary measures that will enable the country to address foreign investors more actively and more effectively after their investments in Slovenia's economic space. We therefore welcome the forecast for a new system regulation in this area, and today's amendment is seen as a result of a recent amendment to the Public Finance Act, which requires that specific procedures for direct allocation of incentives for foreign direct investment be granted on the basis of a specific law and not just on the basis of a sub-legislative act. This legislative change is what we are achieving today. This regulates the possibility and conditions for direct negotiations with investors, in particular those who may be present, by their coming or strengthening their economic activities in Slovenia to create new jobs, I am investing in both knowledge, competences and the development of technologies and thus raising the technological level of the Slovenian economy. Finally, contribute to the development of the Slovenian economy. We will therefore support the proposal of this novel by the Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u103	Thank you. Mr Daniel Krivec will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u104	Thank you for your word, Madam Vice President. Dear Minister, colleagues and colleagues! We have before us the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and the Internationalisation of Enterprises. We discussed this a lot on the committee this morning, found that the law was necessary and that it needed to be adopted, and we do not object to it. It is necessary to fill the legal void created by the adoption of the Public Finance Act, which has also introduced new provisions in Article 10 which discuss the non-regulation of the matter by means of a sub-legislative act. In doing so, I would like to point out that it has once again been shown that the Government is acting in some way uncoordinated, which the Minister also indirectly acknowledged in her debate, as this novel should have been adopted by the time we confirmed the Law on Public Finances. It is likely that any other law that has been regulated in the sub-legislative acts concerning the use of public funds will create a similar legal void and will have to be re-ordered in the wake of the urgent procedure. I must say that the debate has been deepened and the problem is that the legislative and legal service has not exactly been satisfied with the amendments tabled by the coalition groups and still points out that the bill has been written quite modestly, both in the introductory part and in the explanation of the individual articles and that its content is not even sufficiently clear, understandable and transparent. It is, in particular, about the fact that the content of this law is not well regulated in the general provisions, since most of the matters governed by the law are still regulated in the regulation so far, which the Legislative and Legal Service warns and also points out that this may lead to a problem in the application of this adopted law itself. The problem is that this amendment refers irrespective of the fact that the law has to regulate complete matter, it still refers to a sub-legislative act which sets out the criteria which are important. Above all, we are talking about how to be allocated, we are talking about a commission that is deciding on this and a number of important matters. It is very questionable for us, who also, of course, support foreign investment and even investment in new jobs, but the change in Article 2, which in some way sums up the conditions of the previous regulation which speaks of, would say, alternative conditions for the allocation of these funds in the new proposal of the law, which in some way summarizes this regulation, are accumulating these conditions. That is why we have also proposed an amendment in our parliamentary group, which brings this part of matter back to the dictatorship which has been in the regulation which has set individual conditions as exceptions, either by means of a linkage, or by means of one condition or another or a third. In the proposal put before us by the government or the Ministry, these conditions are cumulative, which means poorer conditions for foreign investment. Here we wonder whether the purpose of this law is then, indeed, in what the preamble says, that we are trying to save and encourage foreign and domestic investment in our space, if in some way we are exacerbating the conditions that have been in force so far and which have also been adequately addressed by the regulation so far. However, we all note that foreign investment is still not sufficient for us. By accumulating certain conditions in the proposal, we place even more difficult conditions before foreign investors for the allocation of these funds. I therefore appeal to all that, in some way, through the debate, we find that the dictatorship in the regulation, which has so far been in force, has been more favourable to draw these funds or to attract foreign investments into our space. These conditions, which the Regulation currently contains, have also been proposed through the adoption of an amendment. In principle, we will not oppose the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr Lojze Posedel will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u106	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Dear Madam Minister with a colleague, colleague and colleague! In the Group of Members, we will indeed unanimously support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment. We will also support all of the coalition's amendments. The amendment of this law is necessary because it provides the legal basis for the allocation of funds or incentives for foreign investment, by means of a specific procedure through the conclusion of direct contracts. It may also be agreed that this amendment could be tabled at the same time as the Public Finance Act. This law was expressly ordered in Article 106 that a direct contract may be concluded only if it is provided for in a specific law. That is why this amendment of the law is necessary. In addition, it is important to commend the Ministry's decision that, despite the need and also the Ministry of the Economy's decision and desire to fully organise and reorganise the Foreign Direct Investments Act, this small correction will allow for these foreign direct investment, especially at this time of recession, when each job is still very important. Nor do we agree with the assessment that the stricter conditions or criteria to be justified by foreign investment are any new investment, it is said that the criterion of 50 increases to 100 % of new jobs in order to increase this criterion. It is a legitimate wish to ensure that the funds are used and invested in those investments that will indeed provide as many new jobs as possible and, above all, that the work of the Commission, which must assess any investment on the basis of criteria already in force and recorded in the Regulation, will have a significant impact on the development of the economy or on the development of Slovenia as a whole. As it is said, the Group of Members will indeed unanimously endorse this amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr Franz Bogovic will present the position of the Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u108	Good evening, ladies and gentlemen. Dear Vice President. Good evening, Madam Secretary. The procedure for granting financial incentives for foreign direct investment has so far been laid down in the Financial Incentives Regulation for foreign direct investment due to the amendment of the Public Finance Act, which provides that direct contracts can only be concluded in exceptional cases. Among other things, if the allocation procedure is separated in a sectoral law, there is a legal void in the area of granting financial incentives for investments under a specific procedure. The rules in force are therefore no longer sufficient. This is most problematic in cases where the application was lodged in 2010. If the incentives for lack of legal basis were not granted, no investment would be made to the extent envisaged. The estimated number of jobs will not be realized. Nor does the transfer of technology and the development of Slovenian entrepreneurship. In the Slovenian People's Party, we believe that the proposed solution is necessary, since in these times, when the Government has in fact paid little attention to promoting the Slovenian economy over the past two years, we need to take advantage of all the opportunities that offer little hope that we can gain some fresh investment and open up a new job. If any solutions are too small, as pointed out by the Legal and Legislative Service, then we should propose that solutions be complemented as soon as possible. It is also fair to say that this new regime is not a novelty in the Slovenian legal order, that it is only a delay in the Ministry of the Economy's action, since the legal vacuum should be filled when the Public Finance Act itself is adopted. There is also an open question for us whether the EUR 4.5 million provided in the budgets of the Republic of Slovenia for these purposes is sufficient, as we firmly believe that the funds invested in attracting foreign investors to our premises are very well invested. We are also convinced that, despite the requirement that the conditions in the law should be laid down, that this legal matter must also remain so open that, in this difficult process of attracting foreign investors, those who are qualified to do so can make a good decision and also choose those investments that will take place in the Slovenian space. It is not always possible to acquire only the highly technologically needed investments, but it is also often necessary for those investments that sometimes employ a less skilled workforce and that are provided by investors who come to our place from abroad. In the Slovenian People's Party, I repeat, we welcome this measure. Today we propose to adopt the proposed law. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will certainly give him support. To those who will work on the basis of this law, however, we want as many investments as possible in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u109	Thank you. Mr Franc Jurša will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u110	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A nice greeting is given to the Minister, with her co-worker, including her colleagues and colleagues. We have before us a proposal for a new Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and the Internationalisation of Enterprises, which we are adopting under an urgent procedure. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia points out that the necessary procedure is necessary in order to avoid difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State by providing an appropriate legal basis for the process of granting financial incentives for investments under a specific procedure through the conclusion of direct contracts. The amendment of the Public Finance Act, which entered into force last October and which provides that direct contracts may only be concluded in exceptional cases, inter alia, where the procedure for the allocation of funds is laid down by the sectoral law, has created a legal void in the area of the granting of financial incentives for investment under a specific procedure. This procedure for granting financial incentives to foreign direct investment has been established so far in the Regulation on Financial Incentives to Foreign Direct Investments, which is no longer sufficient after the amendment of the Public Finance Act. For this reason, the adoption of the proposed law by emergency procedure is necessary in order to ensure proper treatment of applications already received, in order to allocate financial incentives for the implementation of investments that would provide for an estimated 971 new jobs in Slovenia. For if no legal basis is allowed in time for the allocation of funds under the special procedure, the planned investments will not be made. The fact is, during the economic recession, every new job is extremely valuable. This is why the 971 new jobs envisaged mean a great deal to the growth of economic power and, consequently, the economic situation in Slovenia. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law, as we agree with the applicant's statement that if the bill was not adopted, there would be irreparable consequences for the country, as foreign investors would redirect their funds to other countries. In addition to regulating the legal basis for the procedure for granting financial incentives for foreign direct investment under a specific procedure, the proposed amendment also introduces stricter conditions which must be met for the investment to be eligible for financial incentives under the specific procedure. Thus, investment for the development of the Slovenian economy is more important in the novel, and the employment threshold created by the company is also increased from 50% to 100% more jobs than set out in the Regulation. The Regulation provides that the minimum number of new jobs is 25 in processing, 10 in service and 5 in development and research activities. Since we are assessing in the DeSUS Group that the proposal for a law brings urgently needed jobs, we will also support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u112	Good evening again, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Minister and Vice-President! I have already told my mother's labour body that it is very sad that in this mandate we have to adopt laws for individual and individual cases in the National Assembly, but we do not accept them in general and in general, so that we can solve the problem all at once. In the parliamentary group, we have certain laws that we talk about many times, we also argue, and we exchange our opinions. Everyone has their own beliefs, and this time it was. And just as I have pointed out on the working body, the number that we will remember and against which we cannot and must not, none of us, is a thousand new jobs. And I said if it's 1%, and I'll say it's because I'm from Zasavje, which is dedicated to Zasavje, I'll be happy. But this number will be remembered in the Slovenian National Party. The president of the Victory Group also studied a few studies on the earnings of companies per country. And he said, "Yes, who will come to Slovenia if he earns €36 000 in Slovenia and €82 thousand in Hungary?" In fact, this is the truth, and I must say that it will not be so spiritistic, Madam Minister, that there is a bet between us that if this does not happen, what is written in this law will be a very serious bet; I say little for a joke, a little indeed. In the Slovenian National Party, we have concerns about this because, given the experience of domestic investors, who, like my colleague Silven Majhenič showed me, are wooding other countries, especially the Balkans, and I am angry that they are not investing at home. For example, I specifically have information for Swan Novo mesto, which went on the same principle of law in Serbia for certain money and works there instead of working here successfully. And now I will tell this country, as I have always said on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, whether or not it has done enough to keep domestic investors in their home area, in their country, the country of the Republic of Slovenia, the government will think about it. There are two important data for us: a thousand new jobs and investments exceeding at least 100 %, as enshrined in the law itself. We have heard that there are four specific investments. We have also heard from the Ministry that these are specific investments, which must not be discussed for reasons of business secrecy. Here too, we could demand and say that we don't believe anything else and that we want to hear who these four are. Once again, because we are in the Slovenian National Party to start living normally, it is normal to work because it is a thousand new jobs, because it is 100 % of the investment surplus we cannot oppose, but we hope and hope that this money - the additional 10 million euros that are needed - will not escape as it has escaped many times before. We are also saying what our ministry is running, on the one hand, the former Deputy Governor and, on the other hand, the Minister of Finance. The Strategic Council, the fiscal council has found that if the state can commit itself, it must and should be responsible for investments that generate profits and nothing else. Given the high level of debt without such investments as this one, of course, we would like this money to come directly with an obligation that would be clear and transparent, which would not be, which this money should not and could not have gone anywhere else is justified and others were not. So, in the Slovenian National Party, we will be vigilant about how this law will take effect, and let me say that unfortunately, let us once start making the right laws without changing the regulations into laws, so that we can live better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u114	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues. Dear Madam Secretary. Nicely greeted. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have repeatedly pointed out the issue of foreign direct investment in the Republic of Slovenia because in our opinion these foreign investments are under-investment. Therefore, in this amendment to the law on the promotion of foreign direct investment and the internationalisation of enterprises, we will take the opportunity to draw attention once again to the under-regulated investment environment. Of course, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we will support the amendment of the law, since only the law regulates an area previously regulated by a regulation that has not yet been amended by the Public Finances Act. However, the amendment to the Public Finance Act provided that direct incentives could only be granted through a specific law. This law, which is before us today, thus creates a legal basis for the award of these incentives, which are aimed primarily at greater investments or investments that have a strong impact on economic development. The conditions or criteria to be met by foreign investors in the execution of an individual project are also passed to the legal level, as 100% must exceed the minimum number of newly opened jobs as provided for in the Regulation or the value of the investment must be more than EUR 12 million. Under both conditions, which are not necessarily fulfilled at the same time, the expert committee must assess that the investment will make a significant contribution to the development of the Slovenian economy. Despite the reduced tightening of conditions, which is only minor, conditions in absolute numbers will still be fully feasible. In the Liberal Democracy Club Slovenia, we estimate that this move is meaningful, as investment must have a key focus on the day of opening new jobs. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have always been of the opinion, and today so much more so that foreign direct investment does not only have positive statistical effects, for example in increasing jobs, but also promotes so-called external economies, where there are important effects that have a positive impact on the development of the economy as a whole. Of course, not all such investments must be the focus of the government, even more focused on, for example, high-tech investments that bring high added value and thus strengthen the overall business and economic environment in Slovenia. Why we estimate that in Slovenia we fell slightly asleep during the whole period in promoting these investments clearly shows us the data of the institution, where they measure foreign direct investment around the world. For example, Slovenia has been measured as a share of gross domestic product in the European Union at the top of those countries with least entry foreign investments over the last ten years, with an average of around 2.4%. With less inward foreign investment, only Greece and Italy are. As already announced, we will support the proposal for a new law at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, and we want to ensure that business environment in Slovenia is less complicated with less administration and what not only foreign but also domestic companies want a stable, predictable and efficient legal environment in the future, in addition to effective financial incentives and well-established economic diplomacy. This is the biggest incentive for foreign investors. We will certainly contribute our share in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, and we hope that the proposed law will contribute to the reduction of the number of unemployed and, of course, give economic effects. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u115	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on Article 2 and the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to this Article. Anybody want to talk? Yeah, I see your hands. I'm opening the application. Mr. Guilty, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u116	Thanks again for saying that. I will reopen, in essence, the question of why in this proposal of the law, we tighten the conditions for drawing on these funds, which the law or amendment of the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investments has brought about, and we are going to make sure that the criteria that have been adopted and in force in the regulation so far, and which have enabled this pumping, in some ways, we are exacerbating or doubling the criteria in some cases. In addition, the conditions that have so far been used as an alternative in the sum are said to be accumulated. I also wonder because the government in the proposal of this law is referring to the fact that this law has been tabled by emergency procedure in order to prevent difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the State, because the legal basis is not provided for more than two and a half months, since the Public Finance Act was adopted in December. So we can really ask ourselves that question, and I must say that the Minister has also rightly admitted that this was a problem at some point. In addition, the Government or the Ministry states in this paper that the adoption of the proposed law by emergency procedure is necessary in order to ensure that the applications for financial incentives for the implementation of investments have already been properly addressed and so on. It is said that those who have read our laws and regulations so far have in some way been familiar with the criteria that have been in force so far, as the regulation has already discussed in this article some of the conditions that have been in force until the amendment which is likely to be adopted today. It is said that these applications have also arrived, and these investors, who have so far submitted applications or requests to draw these funds, are in some way putting them in a different position. At least for these applications, which are already in the procedure, it would be appropriate to maintain the criteria that were in force in the present Regulation. If we are talking about this Regulation or the conditions laid down in this Regulation, and this is also the proposal of our amendment, we are talking about incentives being awarded without a call for tender, of course in this procedure, which is defined by the law if the investment generates a 50% increase in the number of new jobs. The proposal proposed by the Ministry refers to 100% of new jobs. So this criterion is getting worse. We also say that the next criterion is conditional, whether it is worth more than EUR 12 million or if the Commission in Article 7.b of this Act considers that the investment will contribute significantly to the development of the Slovenian economy. In this article, which is now proposed in the material, this is cumulative and refers to the fact that the Commission referred to in Article 7(b)(3) finds that the investment contributes significantly to the development of the Slovenian economy and if the investment has these and these conditions met. This means that someone will always see an important contribution to the development of the Slovenian economy. Regardless of the other criteria, this condition will always be basically accumulated along with the others. This is a significant change from the previous conditions that have been changed to the tenderers or to those who have so far submitted an application, since earlier it has been suggested that individual criteria should be taken into account by discretion, either one condition or the other. We're accumulating them in the proposal. I therefore ask whether this will not be possible in breach of any other legal act against those who have already intervened, given that we are changing the legal basis at this point in this Article? We are changing the conditions for those who have already addressed applications to the Ministry in some way making the conditions difficult for them and there is also a key issue. We are all talking about the need for new jobs in order to accelerate the possibility of drawing on these funds. In one article, this law has only four articles, and these criteria are made worse by potential users of these funds. I find this to be incomprehensible by the proposaler, and I do not understand you, too, because we have all debated on the committee that we need to speed up the pace that we need to relax these matters, and now we are sharpening the criteria. So I appeal to all that this amendment, which summarizes only the existing regulation, which has also been made publicly accessible on the basis of which certain potential investors have been designated, has probably also addressed their applications to support this amendment and thereby improve this law, which is certainly to be adopted due to a legal void.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u118	Thank you very much! Before that, my colleague Barovic spoke about how much the company would be worth in Slovenia, and I will make these comparisons a little easier to understand for some who do not seem to understand it, and I will add one more. If the company were to earn around €40,000 in Slovenia, it would earn about €60,000 in Austria in the same way, about €90,000 in Hungary and even in Croatia, say around €60,000 in the river. Now tell me which asshole from abroad will come to work in Slovenia to earn less than anywhere else around Slovenia. This leads me to believe that this law is ready for certain people, perhaps known people, who we meet in Slovenian media from day to day and who will have to confiscate their imported and stolen investments. That's what makes me think even more so when it's said that these investments are, these four investors, that it's business secrecy. Please, this is the National Assembly, what a business secret. Perhaps Mr Pavček is in the back, but it is clear that then there must be business secrecy or something like that. Porkfix, we've got cases full of cases in court, no one's gonna be punished for not thinking anyone's gonna sit for it. No, they'll be forgiven. Because that's the way it is, and it's 971 jobs. Have we not heard from the Members once before, when the United Letters said at the beginning of the mandate: "We will open 100,000 new jobs." Yeah, we got 110,000 unemployed. That's great. And it's been $115,000. That's great. There'll probably be more tomorrow. I believe if a colleague from SD says so, it'll probably hold that we have 120. That's what you say, great, how you do it the way you do it. I hear you've started working. Ma, how did you start working or when did you start working? If you work for yourself, it's not a job for the state. This is not a job to save our economy. It is interesting that we had one investment, in which also the famous Prime Minister, in which Obama must have wiped his hands today, that he then promised, said we would go to the airport museum project at Murski Sobota. There were 450 jobs guaranteed, plus 2,000 indirect jobs. But no, most of the investment was provided by me from private sources. The only thing the government would have to do to move the land from one of its pockets into another's pockets. But no, that wasn't good, because Jelinčič is in there, it's got to be beaten down and Jelinčič is in court. That's what you did. That's what your government can do. To lie in the face and do stupid things. And what? None of that. Fine, fine, we destroy the country day by day. We don't destroy, you destroy the country and you smile and you talk about how good you are. The fact is, even your advisors, what did these gentlemen advisors do in their lives, or did one of your advisors have a company that had a positive and good drive? No, no, no. But you have professors who put up a Maribor pool when they were ministers. These are counselors. There's no way such counselors go anywhere. And if Serbia and Slovenia are compared, we can compare with them. The government is about the same stupid and equally engulfed. And they're stealing money about the same. But I thought we lived in Slovenia anyway. After all, in Croatia it is no longer possible to do so and their authorities are closing down those who are doing so. Nothing with us, of course. Awful. If you want to do something, you don't have to tie a marriage to certain people here. We should first find out and correct what's wrong with payment discipline. Nobody cares. What's on Durs? It doesn't matter. They'll do it somehow. What about tax legislation? Did anyone correct the tax legislation to have someone come here - don't tell me please. What's going on? Every year we give Revoz a whole bunch of millions of euros, but not a single euro of their money, the profits don't stay in Slovenia. Everything in the suitcases is fine, and in France. In Dolenjska they have nothing from Revoz except that one exception of the Croats is there at work. That's what we got. This is the welfare of the Slovenian people and the welfare of the Slovenian industry. It's the wisdom of our government. That's real wisdom. It is said or written here that it is therefore accepted by emergency procedure in order to avoid the difficult remedial effects on the functioning of the country. Please, the only way to prevent harmful effects for the country is to step down and go to those positions that you know how to do. Maybe we could dig in some cabbages. Maybe you could do that, or maybe you could say that if you didn't introduce the genetically altered weeds out, and you probably would have a hard time with the rope, you'd have to put them on your hands. Awful. This should save Slovenia and the Slovenian state. Here in the law you wrote that you now have about €4.5 million already provided, but that is not enough. It takes 10 million to have them. Which one of these gentlemen, who are strictly secretive, told you that he needed 10 million and that he was under 4.5 million? And how much will we have to take into account these loans and guarantee them with a state guarantee? I went to bet with my colleague Barovich, yes, of course, I went to bet and I'll get the bet because it won't be nothing. Because practically none of your laws have ever been good. Every day we're deeper, even though some people sing songs about how beautiful it is, how good it is, and how much better it is every day. But I don't know where it's better every day. Ask the people on the road if every day is better! It's not. But it is true that for some, each day is better. That is true, however, whether special intoxicating substances are used or money drips into their pockets. That's when they're really better. Here you write in your goals that it is a direct foreign investment by entering into direct contracts. The Ministry will therefore conclude direct contracts. Madam Minister, I have seven minutes to go, it's the rules of procedure, you don't have to look around, it's "lege artis" as it has to be. In short, the conclusion of direct contracts with the Ministry on the one hand and, on the other hand, with unknown contracting parties. Tell me one country in the world where this is, except when it comes to military production. But I don't think it's military production, because there's also one law you can't pass, so the old "clumps" could be sold abroad. You can't do that either! And then you'd rather snuggle what others sell, or worse, send to decommissioning abroad, they charge you for decomposition, and at the same time they don't break anything down, but sell on. But that's why the Slovenian state, the government is too stupid, it's too difficult. That's it, damn it, almost an account with one stranger! Well, that's hard! Well, if I were to ask what your, how many, I don't know, square roots of three squared, I probably wouldn't even be able to answer, because that's too difficult, because there's a logic to use here. This logic that you have, however, is used in the adoption of laws. Of course, after a quick procedure, you come to the National Assembly for college, you push everything to save the country, and then you "put" us into such a law. This was accepted by the Government 3. 2. 2011, we got this on Friday, then it was Saturday, then it was Sunday, then it was Monday was one working day, then it was a holiday, and - here we are, today we are discussing and, of course, we will accept, of course, that we will accept. Of course we will, because the coalition will accept, and 99% of the gentlemen in the coalition don't even understand what this is about, because they've never worked anywhere to have their own company and to serve with their jobs in their company! In order to know that it is necessary to obtain, to do, to sell, to take taxes and to have profit in the end. Not throw a shovel through a window of money! Of course, you're not throwing away your money because you're throwing away our money and from people who are dying out there! But you don't care, you'll accept, you'll do, and we'll see in the next photos, which of the gentlemen will have a big smile on his mouth – probably one of those who are particularly privileged and who are among the state secrets when they get the money. I will personally vote against this law. Although the amendment is partially correcting the matter, it is no longer remediable because this should be otherwise written. It partially fixes, but in my opinion it does not correct enough, so I will vote against it. Not because I get the bet, because I get the bet, but because I save the Slovenian taxpayers another slap and another financial burden.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u119	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u120	Thank you very much. Well, since the Member has allowed himself to comment on something else, I will also say that it is really difficult to be a minister and that sometimes something turns out in such debates. [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u121	Mr Jelinčič, the Minister now has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u122	Not because of you, Mr. Jelinčič. I'll also make a few observations, or I'll give you some answers. I don't know where the idea of this law being written for some special case, for unknown cases. The law is written for all foreign direct investment that will apply, which will come to Slovenia in the coming months. The fact is, we have four applications at the Ministry right now. If you want to know more about these, you probably all have access to the data, we can agree, but I can't talk about this at a public meeting because it's business secrecy. And of course I can't disclose this information. However, I can say that two investments have already been confirmed on the Commission and will be known to the public shortly after the Government accepts them. As regards the same issue itself, which is justified, whether the procedures will need to be repeated, or whether the situation changes when conditions are tightened. Here I can only answer no, because all these investments are significantly above the conditions, including those stricter conditions that are now foreseen in the law. You see, we said 971 jobs. Here is the maximum, if it is a foreign direct investment and if it is in a processing activity, it means that it must employ at least 50 workers. Thus, even with these criteria, which we are now sharpening substantially, these exacerbations are not such that any good and quality foreign direct investment would be rejected. But if I can still turn to this amendment and comment on it. What is written in the amendment is now prescribed in the Regulation. That's how it is now. Thus, now in these investments, it is a matter of greater investment, investments that we directly confirm are sufficient to meet one condition. Either that's enough jobs or that value goes beyond. The third condition is that only the Commission assesses that this investment contributes significantly to the development of the Slovenian economy. Look, this is essentially for us who are deciding and, as Mr Jelinčič says, we will decide anyway so that someone gets any special benefits from this. For us, that would actually be good, because we don't have to see if any job will create or whether the value of the investment will be that. Since only the Commission can decide that this investment will make a significant contribution to the development of the Slovenian economy. So it's a purely arbitral decision, a purely discretionary right of someone. We don't want that. And we want these investments, which we will accept and directly confirm, to conclude direct contracts with them, to have another measurable criterion in this, otherwise arbitral decision-making capacity. That is why we say that each investment must meet one condition, at least one measurable condition, or achieve that minimum number of new jobs, or reach that value of EUR 12 million, or more. The contribution of this investment to the development of the Slovenian economy is then taken into account. That's the improvement. In fact, now, if I may say so, you are in fact to me, the Ministry, and not least then the Government is also taking the rights that the government has now considered to be such a determination. And that's the improvement. However, as far as the size of the criteria are concerned, believe not this or it should not be a problem. If we go through a specific procedure to allocate funds to someone, it will be appropriate to open at least 50 jobs in processing activities, to open at least 10 jobs in development and research activities, to open at least 20 jobs in service activities. Don't you think? But everyone else has the opportunity to use another instrument. This is a call for tender, where a smaller number of employees or smaller conditions can, however, obtain funds for foreign direct investment. I must say that this procedure is no different, and so do other countries, having both instruments developed for such larger things, direct contracts are concluded. It's a matter of direct conversation. And if, Mr Jelinčič, we really want to be a little more competitive than we are today, I fully agree with you, and you have just said that today the conditions for business in Slovenia are significantly worse than many countries in our neighbourhood, but if we want to be competitive once again, we must also worry in such areas that we will have instruments for attracting foreign direct investment, such as or better than our neighbouring countries, and I will not now, we will still have much discussion about this, as far as our competitiveness and the state are concerned, and I will not go out of the way as you have done, but at this point you can certainly expect, even from me and these governments, some measures that I hope will, when we present them in Parliament, also support. Well, if I do. I would not accept this amendment, I think that the solution that we now have in the proposal for amendments to the law is more appropriate. There will be no obstacle to the fact that those investments that are good would not receive development incentives, and I would like to mention that. It is true that this is an urgent procedure, because we want all these roles to be resolved as soon as possible in the procedure so that they can be implemented as soon as possible. As I have already mentioned today, our Ministry is preparing a comprehensive reform of the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investments and Internationalisation, which will only encourage foreign direct investment and internationalisation, let us say, in a more modern, modern way, which will also ensure Slovenia's greater competitiveness than the countries. So much for me. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u123	Thank you. Since I see that there is still an interest in the debate, I am opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr. Bezjak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u124	Thank you for your word, chairman. Well-known Minister, fellow Members and Members of Parliament. We have before us the Law on Urgent Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Investments in Slovenia. Of course, I agree that the law must be adapted and brought into line with European legislation, as the Ministry of Finance has in fact regulated. Why in the Slovenian Democratic Party we decided to table this amendment - precisely from this point of view to make the law more favourable to foreign investors, because in these times of crisis and hardship we are all aware that we have the most expensive country in Europe or the world, we can say so, by taxes. If we go down labour contributions and so on, we will be able to meet the tougher criteria for obtaining foreign investors, foreign investors in Slovenia. I don't know why we're fighting or preventing foreign investors from coming to Slovenia. Believe me, there aren't many. We remember our own time back, the prevention of Global in Slovenj Gradec. Thank God it's gone sideways and helping Ptuj's neighbors, but believe me, it's not a solution. How much trouble they have now to pursue and achieve their goals. There is certainly no solution to the bankruptcy problem, which is estimated at 2 million 700, and we ourselves know that the actual value of this company is much lower. If the state is considering how to pay back the previous situation, believe that foreign investors will be even less interested in investing in the Slovenian economy rather than finding themselves somewhere more domestic. Personally, I believe that with this amendment, we have taken a step in the Slovenian Democratic Party towards the kindness, kindness of seeking out foreign investors, the friendliness of the more cost-effective companies, which would actually add more added value to Slovenia, which would actually create new jobs. If we stop them in the beginning, then believe that bad voice flies from day to day faster to any one who would be willing to invest or bring businesses or start a business or buy any business here in Slovenia, even more fear and even less of such people or companies. I hope the problems in Slovenia are enough. I hope that this amendment would take one step closer to the Maribor vehicle factory, which is in disobedience, if we can so call it, which is the programme in the background, but only certain individuals or certain people with reckless moves led this Maribor vehicle factory into this situation as it is. If we are setting these foreign investors strong criteria, but we have very strong taxes in Slovenia, then I do not know if anyone is willing to come to Slovenia to torture, including with 20% of the mentality we have Slovenians with the former Yugoslavia and with such expensive labour. I'm sorry. I don't know if anyone's ready. In Slovenia, consideration should be given to tax reduction, a friendly environment should be made for investors, economists to keep Slovenian companies at home, to attract foreign investors, and to create more economic growth, as well as a larger budget, to fill the budget into the state treasury. This is the purpose of writing laws and the purpose of creating added value. Because it's just nice to talk, it's nice to write, but nothing to do about it, I'm afraid it's not going to work. Those flowers, which are blooming, are blooming in bloom, are already gone, and so those flowers, which give life as much under flowering flowers as they give, must be watered in time for them to bloom but not to rot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u125	Thank you. Mr. Krivec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u126	Thanks again for saying that. I didn't mean to come back again, but the minister kind of indirectly challenged some things. But she did not answer why we tightened the conditions; there was no answer to that first question. However, I wonder, in the light of your debate, whether we are adopting a law that will apply to everyone, whether there are some really exceptions here, because you were talking about these 971 jobs, whether this is all four potential investors, or whether this applies to one and here I think it is now a question and also my intention was whether the procedures will need to be repeated, given that we are changing the conditions for applying to this call. It is said that those who have already received the appropriations will, according to the old regulation, some who will re-apply will be following a new one. I don't think that's clear, and she can get into some kind of trouble. Of course, because you know how the applications are given, you are talking about everyone going to go beyond these criteria. However, we are a legislative body that cannot know who will apply, so we are talking about this and asking why the Ministry is sharpening the criteria and here you have not answered me why the criteria need to be sharpened. In particular, given your implementation, everyone has to meet the criteria for increasing jobs and increasing or investing more than 12 million euros, in addition to that basic work, of course, so you replied to me, now I don't know why you're nodding. Now I'm going to ask you if someone comes into our country who would like to invest some high-tech technology that is known around the world, and this is some recognizable person who may not be able to employ one at the initial stage, but will not invest more than 12 million euros, but this will be a very good investment for our country and you will find that it is acceptable, but the other two criteria will not be met and will simply not be eligible for funding. This is what is now stated in your proposal. However, in our proposal and in the current order, it speaks of the fact that the criteria do not accumulate, but individual criteria can also be dealt with individually. It is said whether the investment is more than 12 million, or whether it fulfils the condition of how many new jobs must be opened or whether we find that, regardless of the two criteria that are not met, the investment in Slovenia is so interesting at some technological value that it will not be supported by more than 12 million, nor will it employ so many workers and so many workers, allowing the current regulation. According to your new proposal, you sharpen such criteria and always condition the interest that new technology is introduced and that funds are made available, if investment contributes significantly to the development of the Slovenian economy, you still have criteria. And if you hire so many workers or, if it meets 12 million, it is said that you have sharpened the criteria and made this very hard for certain investments that may be important for our country. So once again, I ask: "Why do we change the criteria for those who have submitted applications and, in addition, tighten the criteria for potential investors who could invest in this country when we are talking about a new law that summarises a regulation that has proved to be good? Why does the Ministry, despite its intention to allow new investments to support new investments to support foreign investors, tighten the criteria for these investors? I think this is crucial and that until we get this answer we find it very difficult to agree with this law, because in some ways we are making the conditions worse, but not, we are improving, as is your intention. I hope that the Members who listen understand what the problem is. You have now made three individual criteria such a point that in a particular case a very good investment in Slovenia may not be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u127	Thank you. Mr Barovic has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u128	Very short. I think there's a lot of things we've said, of course, that's true, and you have to admit, in the spirit of doing something good. First time. It has been confirmed by our own or by our claim that, to be concrete, we have four future investors who do not trust some form of regulation that is called a regulation and are waiting for us to adopt a law in order to believe it more. Why am I saying this? Since such a marriage could be complex, I do not specifically speak, you, but at the beginning this government made a complex law, where we know that a complex law would have resolved it a long time ago. We were right here. It is not possible to take matters into account on specific occasions. Another time. I wish he had advised me, then our president, when we coordinated and talked about this law, was as much as our problem would have been, and I think it's good. Why we didn't close the meetings on the working body and maybe find out who those investors were because there were several questions about who they were and who they would be, maybe today's debate was slightly different. In short, Comrade Victory Jelinčič will tell his story. I'm stressing again. Interresor cooperation is lacking in this government, it is not, and it is not, and the writing of laws ad hoc according to the needs that arise is also wrong. Once again, on behalf of the Slovenian National Party and its own, let us once again start to write laws that will apply from beginning to end and for all. That's it. I want to say that we were probably right, and I think the Minister will also admit that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u129	Thank you. Mr. Jelinčich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u130	Thank you very much. I think the implementation of the Minister has shown that the law has been written for known users. Because otherwise, the ministry could also request a closed meeting, and we could talk here, as it should and should not have to hide Rezvoz from getting the money and then taking it somewhere. I don't know whether the French demanded this, because I think our governments are no longer leading Slovenia and Slovenian politicians, but some hints or no request, because we don't have to ask, because ours only immediately understand if someone else turns, what needs to be done. Since a good servant knows what he wants right away, he doesn't have to tell him directly. When it comes to how other countries work - other countries do better, significantly better than ours, because otherwise, if they did so well with me, then today the Austrians would not come to the Hypo Bank, sweep all our outs, come with their security services and set up their man. If we're doing so well and we're so beautiful and the best, it probably wouldn't have happened. How good are we, showing what I know – why did Jakopin go to Italy to do sailing? Why is Boscarol going out? We don't know how to support our own people. Our own people, and then we'll support the aliens and give them a chance? No, no. It's about someone getting some nice money and someone getting some change from this money on our side, because also to take some big money, you're too stupid.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u131	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u132	Thank you very much. Let me explain again. First of all, it's not about mistrust in the regulation. I need to explain the procedure one more time. I guess we don't understand each other. So far, foreign direct investment has been made under Article 22 of the Regulation by means of a direct contract instrument with the Government. With the implementation of the Public Finance Act, this Act entered into force. 1. 2011, direct conclusion of contracts shall be prohibited unless specified in a specific sectoral law. This must be stated in the law, but we had this in the regulation. Why this has also occurred in the draft law before the Committee on the Economy, I am talking about public finances, a transitional provision or article setting out a transitional period for the implementation of this Article. Regrettably, then, this article fell under the procedure. This has led to the embarrassment and, of course, on our part, the necessary response to coordinate and provide the appropriate basis for continuing the implementation of incentives for foreign direct investment. There's one more thing I need to explain. This is not just about some four known investments, those that are currently in the process. This law will apply to all other investments that will be reported below. As far as this is concerned, why the urgent procedure, and why are we in such a hurry? Just because we don't want the role we have at the Ministry to wait for, I don't know, half a year to take this whole procedure through parliament. If we did not have any role, we would probably go as we thought, in accordance with the normative programme, we would prepare a comprehensive amendment to the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment, come once in September, October to Parliament and confirm the law. The point is that we have roles at the Ministry that we want to solve as soon as possible. And that's why it's such a procedure, and that's why it's such a solution. Why do we tighten the conditions? Once again, the conditions are not such as to tighten the conditions. I hope you understand that 50 employees and new jobs must not be a problem for someone who will receive a state subsidy, a few million. Is that a problem? If this is a problem, then there is something wrong with our encouragement. Based on past experience, we find that this condition cannot and cannot be a problem. Smaller and worse investments will not be supported or can go into public tendering where conditions exist and, of course, less money. I am sure that we will not be making any serious, I stress, serious foreign investor out of the intention to invest in the Republic of Slovenia. Well, it's not about mistrust in the regulation. The conditions are different, they are changed, for example, sharpened compared to the existing regulation, because we estimate that if someone receives funds without a call for proposals – there must also be something special, something more. This, and also on the basis of experience, shows that these criteria, which are now laid down in the Regulation in practice, will also be able to meet more and more serious investments with ease. So much for explaining again. However, I want to deny, of course, all indications that this law was written, whether it is written only for specific investments. It just doesn't hold. The main reason is that we had to transpose the criteria and criteria for direct allocation under the regulation into law. And that's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u133	Thank you. Mr. Weber. Excuse me, Mr. Weber, Mr. Krivec has come to the replica.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u134	Besides, the Minister didn't directly mention me, but obviously we don't understand each other. She's talking about not sharpening. I'm saying we're tightening up. And I also said a concrete case that could happen in practice. I don't understand the government, despite all the talk about how we encourage something to sharpen such criteria. If this regulation has not caused any problems so far, the Commission still decides, but you are closing the door so that a potential investor who, as I said, will not have an investment in 12 million and will not employ as many workers as this regulation requires. However, it will bring some high technology, or environmental protection, or biotechnology, anywhere, and it would be possible to allow it through this law or regulation now; in the case of your adopted law, such an investor will be rejected and will go to another country. Why close the door if you talk all the time, and you're full of mouths about encouraging foreign investment to encourage new arrivals of foreign investors, which, of course, are checked because it's not automaticism. He's talking about the commission now, too. But you closed the door. And that surprises me, despite all the argument in the material, you're sharpening the terms. That's not normal. I don't know how you feel about this, but hypothetical cases that may come are important. You're saying there's no investor now. If we look at all the legislation like that, there will probably be none if we don't want to. However, there are now two criteria that do not allow it. So far, this has been allowed. I hope you Members read the material you have on your desk. And I don't know why we're on the board and we're still talking about the need to release the conditions. Now, by the current regulation, which has not been favoured by anyone so far, it has not allowed any act to be played in this bill, which you are now putting into practice. The minister herself admitted that we'd tighten the terms. I suggest you support the amendment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u135	Thank you. Mr. Webber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u136	Thank you for your word. Perhaps, first of all, a comment to Mr Jelinčič, who, of course, sees the culprit as being very big problems in the economy today only in the Social Democrats, must be stressed that in this exceptional economic and financial crisis, which has arisen due to the world situation and, of course, to us as a result, very large amounts of money have been invested in the budget in order to maintain jobs, subsidised working time for waiting at home, for those companies that did not have the time to order. These are, of course, very concrete amounts, very concrete solutions that have preserved a certain economic society and have also provided many workers with jobs. Of course, in this economic and financial crisis, this law, which we are talking about today, is also one of the concrete measures the Government wants to respond to the interests of investors from abroad who want to invest in Slovenia. And if we've been hearing for two years that the government isn't responding fast enough, I don't understand these perceptions if it responds quickly, but again something is wrong with this decision, that it certainly has something behind it and that something is wrong again. So when exactly is it right to decide to help the economy? As a rule, this is actually linked to the time component — at a time when an investor chooses to invest, it really needs to be followed as quickly as possible and allowed to exercise its interest. For even a change in the market can at times change his decision. However, if this is decided at some point when the market is one calling for its services, a large part of this investment may also have been reimbursed. So the speed here, in my opinion, is extremely important. And if ever there are reasons for an extraordinary session, I can certainly see them in the fact that we can adopt this law as soon as possible. I am also of the opinion that it might be more appropriate if it remained with the number of jobs currently recorded in the Regulation, whether it is 25 in the Regulation or 50 in this Act, if it is a processing industry or 10 in the Regulation and in Law 20 for services and 5 in research activities, under Law 10 in research activities, because so and so the Commission reviews all the roles and at the time when it assesses these roles, it can certainly be decided, because I think that such criteria will also be in the invitation to tender to give priority to those who have 50 jobs more, in the processing or service industry, and this problem would be elegantly resolved and today probably not be disputed as to whether 50 jobs are large or 25 small; both are large, each job is extremely valuable. And I think that we might have fewer discussions here today if we stayed with this number as it has just been written. I would like to draw your attention to one more fact. Not only will the Government respond to these investments or investors from abroad, with this law, I hope, will we also adopt, at our first next meeting, an extremely likely law on coherent regional development, which also foresees incentives for the development of the economy in troubled areas. This time it is mainly border areas and about 45% of the areas of the Republic of Slovenia. And all investors who decide to invest will also have the opportunity to obtain either a tax relief or a direct financial resource from the budget of the Republic of Slovenia. In short, these two laws are extremely important in order to encourage investment, not only because some programme will come to Slovenia, but also to include construction, to include all other services, in short, the multiple of such investment and investment, is at least a quadruple of what you intend. So this money, if invested in the economy, will certainly be reimbursed. And that is the goal that we must continue to pursue during this period. By also making a very clear response possible to the opposition, which does not see in any law a good solution, however, it is a very concrete and effective solution that the Government is currently preparing. I expect, however, that the Ministry of Economy, when preparing the call, will also take into account the provisions of the Harmonised Regional Development Act, which I anticipate will be adopted at the next meeting, in the coming week, it is possible to take into account the priority locations identified as areas of concern in these border areas. This is one of the ways and criteria that we are legislating with the coherent regional development law. It is also extremely important that we can also attract investors investing in R & D to these remote sites. In fact, it is extremely difficult to provide quality jobs in these areas, as it usually happens that these research institutes and even more technologically demanding programmes are in larger economic centres, but it is also very important for long-term development of border areas to be able also through tax reliefs, through concrete incentives to investors, that research activities actually take place in this area. So that only an appeal or a warning can be made that you try to apply to the criteria that you will prepare in the invitation to tender in addition to those listed here in the law to add these criteria as provided for in the Harmonised Regional Development Act. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor. A replica? No, no, no. Then I'll give you time to report. Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u138	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, here we have heard some debates about one of the anti-crisis government laws of government projects. That's not what this is about. This law shall be adopted by emergency procedure solely because the Government has made a mistake. Only because we passed the Public Finance Act last year or because you passed it last year, which changed certain conditions and some things because of this law are no longer possible in the way they were. And the government, if it were wise enough to act in a coordinated way, if it acted in a synchronized way, if there was some kind of inter-departmental coordination, I would probably notice in time that there was a hole and some things cannot be done. This law shall be adopted solely for the purpose of the Government to correct its error or also its coalition. And it's not about solving or improving some of the things that could be called anti-crisis, it's about correcting slumming. As this work went on, the Minister explained very precisely earlier. On the Committee on the Economy of the Government, even a transitional provision, which would mean that this law would not even have to be adopted, since these matters could be dealt with by a regulation for six months, a year, depending on how long the deadline was written there. But something happened in the middle. The Economic Committee has obviously adopted some material for the government and someone has changed it to the government or the government. And I seriously wonder who is the one who has not performed his duties in this process. Who is it that in that short time two days between Tuesday and Thursday, usually on Tuesdays the working bodies of the government, and Thursday the government meeting, he overlooked, made a mistake to make this happen? That's the problem. And we should, in fact, discuss here primarily the responsibility of the government or the bill-maker, not whether the opposition is the one who will back or not. The opposition did not make any mistakes in this process, did not participate in the drafting of the law, did not accept it in the government, we are only here to draw attention to what the government has written in its proposal, to explain the urgent procedure, just that. And about what some of you mess up and talk about, I don't know what, this opposition doesn't support, you're seriously bluffing, it's not possible to do that. No one has looked left or right, every minister only cares about his own department, when he proposes to the working body forgets that anything has happened and goes on with other things, does not follow, no one processes these matters to the end, nor does the government. And here are mostly all these problems that come from the nature of the coalition, the way the coalition works, the coordination of the coalition, the leadership of the coalition, either in the government or in the National Assembly. The story is exactly the same. It's all broken down, and then it's the easiest thing for those who speak who defend the government proposal to turn to our side, the opposition, and talk about what we don't do in these procedures. That's not right. These things need to be warned. The other thing that seems to me to be a problem is that the legislator, this is the National Assembly, needs to know what he is accepting and who he is accepting. Here, in this public process, it cannot be determined in this public debate that one thing is secret. That's impossible. The Minister who comes to the National Assembly with such an explanation in order to obtain public funds for the execution of a matter is not aware of the legislation. How can they ask members of the National Assembly to accept something that he and his officials, who are some government officials, ministers, Members, who we accept and decide on millions of euros, we cannot know that. But they already know all those around there, all over the media — printed, written, electronic, and so forth. Why should this be kept from Members of Parliament? If you're hiding the Members, then I can't explain it to myself as if it was a business secret just because it was some Slovenian companies from Cyprus or the Netherlands. It can't be a business secret otherwise. The President of the Government travels with delegations of Slovenian economists, also accepts them here, talks about investments in Adrio Airways, some foreign investors and so on. This is no business secret, or even the directors of companies speak, but it is a matter of investing in a state-owned enterprise. Here someone comes with a solution, writes even how many jobs 971.0 is said to be the specification, those who need a perfect one, and that says that it is that directory and the address book is a business secret. That, Madam Secretary, is not how it works. Expecting a decision to support business secrets here, and not knowing how it's shared and to whom, then it's a little funny. We are committed to protecting business secrets, if you want to deal with such things, properly mark the material, we will close the meeting and discuss it. At least as responsible as many at any ministry. But I'm sure it's twice as responsible. This law can be referred to as law number, for four companies Lex-4 or Lex-971, whatever you want. So it's typically a dedicated law written on the skin of someone, four consumers. And there's no more money than four consumers, because you wrote a demand of 4 million and so many euros and that other things would require another 10 million euros. This is said to know exactly where these funds are going, who they're going to go to, how these talks are going to go, half the ministry and a whole bunch of journalists who aren't even researching, but who they are, and the National Assembly can't know that. And you want a positive decision and support for government projects. This, Madam Minister, is irresponsible of us to support such a law. Irresponsible, no matter what the amendment and I have proposed. And it's irresponsible of you to ask us to do that. This is irresponsible of the government and irresponsible of the coalition. I would like to point out that in a relatively short period of time, at your ministry, we met for the second time with a legal void. At the end of the summer, we had to adopt the Mining Act, the amendment of the law, where we corrected the same error of the government, which in the meantime changed the law, abolished something, and then there was no inspection. This is a very similar story to when something went wrong with the Agricultural Lands Act and a hole was made and some ground procedures were initiated in a previous government and so on. I must say that I am concerned when we monitor such solutions, that I am concerned that we are correcting things that do not need to be corrected, that we are addressing topics that we should not have to deal with and that, on the other hand, both the Government and the coalition are also bragging about how we will help someone. No one because we're late and we're fixing things. And I must say that there is a lot to be done in this coalition and in this government that we will come up with real substantive solutions and not some of the things that you hide or hide from your investors potential or ingenuity to which you will allocate funds through public calls on the basis of four-eye agreements. This is not a transparent use of public funds if we cannot already know here. And again, it turns out that from a government that's not synchronized, that's not organized, that's acting on the principle of inertia and reading newspaper members and identifying problems through the media, you can't expect some good solutions. You can't. No system, no concept, no way. And everything we do, we work late, we work through repairs, we do some back-up stuff, and then we solve it all with some emergency procedures, emergency meetings. The government and the government coalition have convened many extraordinary meetings in this mandate, largely, excessively, we can find out! Excessively despite all the instruments you have at your disposal, despite all the facilities that serve you, you have over-referenced various meetings. And that the measure is full of someone inserting something into the wheel of the coalition to accuse even or, above all, the opposition, exclusively the opposition. Even in cases like this, when they're crystal clear. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u139	Thank you very much. I see interest in the debate. Anyone else who wants to discuss it, please sign in. Mr Radovan Žerjav has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u140	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Not long ago we witnessed one possibility of foreign investment in Maribor, perhaps you were familiar or well-known with the investment of a foreign company that wanted to work, at least so spoke a few hundred employees in Maribor, making some special glasses. And it didn't happen because there was some sort of arbitral decision about whether this investment is right or if this investment is wrong or if they are real investors, they're not right under certain conditions. Also in this law, which we are dealing with today, are some conditions, twelve million euros of investment, some others, and that investment will make a significant contribution to the development of the Slovenian economy. So we're talking about foreign investments, foreign investments to the Slovenian economy probably won't help anything, we have to help the Slovenian economy ourselves. But I don't think we need the conditions, but who are we going to limit? Let them come and work if they want to work. But in my opinion foreign investment will not be as long as the business environment in Slovenia is not attractive to foreign investment. Or if you want the business environment to be such that Slovenian companies will not leave Slovenia, then this business environment will be such that foreign investors will also come. And personally, I'm quite skeptical of these foreign investments, at least at our end of the day, there have been two or three of them that have been so receptive. They put one of those on, I'll say, marble halls, very beautiful, on the far-flashing. They hired people who have minimum wages or a little more than minimum wage. Is this the interest of the Republic of Slovenia? So those foreign investors who are currently coming to Slovenia are coming to benefit from a cheap labor force. The question is, what is the actual value added of these foreign investments in Slovenia? Did someone really measure it? Did anyone measure the contribution of these funds, with which the country promotes foreign investment, I will say to the economic growth of the Slovenian economy? It might not be better if we do not have this information, but these funds will be allocated to the Slovenian economy and to our companies. Those who have the developmental cores that employ researchers, by the way, these foreign companies that I've been talking about have only hired people with secondary education, and not that. Where are our engineers? Where are our economists, university-educated people, young people? Where are we gonna hire you? And another comparison. Like Lek. It would be interesting to do a comparison of Lek and Krka. How much investment has been made since Lek made foreign ownership in Slovenia and how much comparatively it has done during this time the investment of Krk in the Republic of Slovenia. This information would be very interesting. It is my opinion that we must first and foremost go to our own companies and deal with them. Now we've set up an agency, speaking only of those who are state-owned, mostly state-owned, and that's what they're doing out there at some agency, some principal. At the Ministry: we don't know anything. They're mostly dealing with personnel matters. Not only who will sit at the top of the company, but also where the manager will come from, and the quality manager and so on, instead of dealing with the companies themselves. We should do much more of this than simply say, "Yeah, if the company doesn't go, let it go bankrupt." Yeah, it's very easy to say that and send the company to bankruptcy. To set up a new company, however, is much, much, much harder. And it would be good for this Slovenian economy, which is in trouble today, to devote a little bit more attention. A little more listening to what they need. At the top of the economy, not long ago, there was a lot of talk. All you have to do is listen and do what the Slovenian economy wants to do. There's no need to detect hot water. According to my assessment of foreign investments, I mean, allow them to work without any conditions. I see no reason to impose any conditions. Much better must be focused on domestic companies, a respected minister. The locals have to be helped. These will create new jobs. These jobs, which are said to be of high added value, are not highly value-added jobs coming from abroad. I've never seen him before. Tell me one. One foreign investment that has hired 30, 40 graduate engineers or 10, which has hired 10 doctors of science who have such a developmental department to pay to see it in Slovenia. That's an investment I'd like to see, a foreign investment. On the other hand, we have many Slovenian companies that have this. And it would be good for us to focus a little more on listening. Last but not least, more doctors of science from government institutes and so on, where all too much of them are brought into the Slovenian economy. These should be our priorities. Without exploring in these institutes much science, from which the Slovenian economy really has nothing, instead of hiring them into the Slovenian economy, into companies that have research units that have research cores that need this knowledge. So once again, Madam Minister, pay more attention to domestic companies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u142	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with a fellow member, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! I am not a member of the Committee on the Economy, but I immediately passed this law positively. Although, after today’s discussion, I feel that there has been again uncoordinated work on the relationship between individual ministries, governments, the National Assembly or coalition, already under the Public Finances Act. When I listen like this, it seems to me that it would be very good for that part of the regulation or that part of the Public Finance Act that talked about the validity of the regulation to stay for a while, because it is certainly necessary to provide significantly more room for manoeuvre. I am in favour of giving the government or the ministry more room for manoeuvre to better assess which investment is the right one that will bring something positive to the Slovenian economy. I know quite a few companies, and I also come from an environment where there is one such strong company that employs a large number of experts who have a very good development team that would hire more experts, and unfortunately sometimes it doesn't get them on the Slovenian market, and I won't talk about a particular company. So the experience in Slovenia is different with both domestic and foreign companies. So since we are talking about the amendment, it seems to me that the amendment proposed by colleagues should be adopted because of more room for manoeuvre if we are already dealing with the matter with the law and if we are limiting some measurable data and so on. So it seems to me that the National Assembly would do a lot if this amendment were accepted and probably a number of activities opened the door for many investors in Slovenia in the coming period. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The Minister, Mrs Darja Radic, asked for the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u144	Thank you very much. I'd answer Mr. Zerjav. In particular, I checked, 46 highly educated chemists were employed by Julon, Aquafil, investment with an Italian company, high-tech investment. This is a new technology that will be used for the first time in Slovenia, and 46 highly educated chemists will be employed with this foreign direct investment. And I agree with you, including the Government's overall policy of promoting entrepreneurship and competitiveness is aimed at promoting not those investments that will open jobs that can only be paid with a minimum wage. We, too, want to channel the resources, these valuable resources that we have to encourage, into such enterprises that will create quality jobs. So they'll be able to pay more than just minimum wages. That's our goal. With regard to the investment you mentioned, I thank you for not mentioning the name, because also, unfortunately, there are things we cannot talk about like this, but I can – I apologize for obviously not going through it procedurally, but we could close the meeting. I don't mind telling you or telling you what investments they are, but I don't want to do that to the public because it's likely that the applicants themselves would not agree until the process is concluded. But that's what I'm saying, the very investment from Maribor, which was also very exposed to the media, was like this, you said yourself, the first time they came to us, there was a thousand jobs, then there were fewer and fewer jobs, you mentioned, a few hundred. In the end, it turned out to be 100, but students, not jobs, that sort of thing. It turned out that what has been repeatedly mentioned today is that the owners or foreign investors are Cypriot companies. And then tell me how to make that investment. Or how should I propose to the Government that such an investment be accepted? Is that really okay? And I want to tell you this, but with these instruments, you have to understand that we are also trying to eliminate, even in the Ministry, such cases, in time to eliminate, before we have problems, and someone else, because of such investments. However, as far as these investments are concerned, which are currently under consideration at the Ministry, I can assure you that there is no Cypriot company in the back. But I don't know, I mean, we are also, as far as Cypriot companies are concerned, I have to say that sometimes we are also, as it is called, unfair, because it is not said that all companies established in Cyprus are by default unfair or have any unfair purposes. So sometimes we abuse this name too much of Cypriot companies for something that has a bad sign in the front. As far as this is concerned, I don't know why you don't want to understand, but for the last time, this law is not written for these investments that are currently under way. This law is written as a procedure that will apply to these and, of course, to all the next foreign direct investments that will come to Slovenia and which I hope will be as many as possible. Please take it this way and understand this, and if this is allowed, if this is allowed, and I hope that I will not make another procedural error, I can send you under one degree of confidentiality to review which investments or what roles we are currently considering at the Ministry. We're not hiding anything. All the investments are also the procedures in which we have dealt with them, the records of the Commission are attached and you will be able to see what investments are involved. But the fact is, unfortunately, we cannot mention them in public before they are confirmed will be decided on them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u145	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u146	Thank you for your word. It is still my opinion that the opposition must work primarily to ensure that the government is working as transparently as possible and that, of course, the Parliament can also exercise its control in accordance with its powers. What you are saying is that this law is stigmatism because the Public Finance Act has laid down that it is necessary, or that a direct contract for foreign investment can be concluded only if a special law is therefore adopted, it seems to me that a solution is absolutely necessary and correct. I personally support this solution in the Public Finance Act. Now, in current legislation, the Minister can propose for herself to the Government with whom the treaty will be concluded. There's not even any special conditions. Although the regulation has been concluded, published, but the regulation is also a government document. It's an extremely high authority that you can make a direct contract with someone. And the Public Finance Act is very correctly written and requires a special law to be drawn up in these cases, which is why this law is now in the National Assembly and it is right to adopt it as soon as possible. Even with regard to other matters, whether they should write company names here or not in law, it is very unusual to write company names in marriage. I think that today, for example, at least 15, 20 proposals from a variety of types would come up in this debate. I want this company in this marriage, he'd want a third. Forgive this marriage through Parliament, if we write names, we certainly don't get through. So that it is not appropriate to write company names in the law and, as the Minister has said, are valid for all foreign investors with an interest, they will be able to come to the point where they can also revise their investment in Slovenia under this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u147	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment and Article 2? You still want to, go ahead, sign up for the debate. Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Your Honor, Madam Secretary. If this law were like you here claiming to be really convincing, I can say, even honest and in favour of those investors from abroad who would really want to bring in in Slovenia some know-how new technology that would result in what we all have in common, such a law would be written in this way as it is. Above all, I am sure that we should put these conditions here in a way that is not only transparent but, above all, that we would encourage different companies mainly from abroad. But I am, above all, this, the debate here encouraged me or made me think, because I am not a member of this committee myself, I did not follow this debate in the morning, that this is, in fact, now agreed upon, who, of course, will be able to meet this law, even with the help of the Commission and what follows, of course, here. However you now fight with your head, I think it's true that you probably don't officially have those applications for these investment subsidies now, but that there were some conversations, arrangements, or even promises that this law, of course, was prepared in the background. For it is incomprehensible to me also, why sharpen the condition. For here are the conditions, in fact, so one criterion, that in the end it is likely that the congregation that can pass through this sieve will be substantially smaller or, of course, narrow. It is also difficult to expect that the climate in Slovenia is already so bad for our entrepreneurs that the most successful thinkers not only think, actually decide to expand or move outside, but only on the basis of such a law can they expect other entrepreneurs to come to us. There's some illogicality here, too. Above all, look, I would also believe that if every meeting of the National Assembly, I had in mind a regular meeting, especially with your department, had two or three laws, intervention laws could also understand that there would be, in particular, those who would follow the needs or demands of our economy. I ask you how many of those requirements that have been addressed to you, I think, in particular, by small entrepreneurs or the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia who have actually written to you, but not just to you, as well as to other departments, what they expect, what they want to change in Slovenia, so that they can live. Together, these matters should somehow be invested in the procedure in order to be accepted, of course. Then you'd feel more like you really are a ministry, the government is trying to follow that. But look, this law alone certainly does not give this feeling, and I do not have the impression, on the basis of the explanation of the parent's working body, the comments of the Legal and Legal Service, as well as your explanation why you do not support the amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party, that this is really the intention of getting, attracting those investors who will really contribute to Slovenia, not only in the number of jobs, but also in some new technologies, and not in the end with the tax that they would pay here, of course, but not that we will invest or subsidise such companies, which, of course, will with accounting for such or other tax tricks in general, show that the business result will not. So, I hope that our amendments will be supported, so that at least this way this law will open up a little bit more. Of course, it would be much more interesting that this law might even fall down, but that it should be considered once again, so that, as you said, we can unreservedly disclose which investors we can actually talk about in the future. So that I will support these amendments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Darja Radic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u150	Thank you very much. I just have to say, on those demands, that no requirement is within the competence of the Ministry of the Economy. As a department responsible, we have taken care of coordination, coordination with other ministers with competences, and I think we have also prepared very constructive responses with the Chamber of Commerce. Of course, 100% will not be met, none have yet been met, but quite a nice part of the requirements have been taken into account. What I am stressing again is the transfer of the legal basis on which we have now dealt with; the regulation in law, because it has thus established a new Law on Public Finances. In fact, this is the only difference and these roles that have been dealt with by the Ministry today under the regulation have not been considered anything further without a basis and only then formed a basis. They came to the Ministry and were dealt with under this Regulation, and in the meantime the Public Finance Act has been amended, which said that the regulation is too small for us to transpose the criteria into the law and that we are doing so with this law. I hope that's a very clear explanation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Kampush.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u152	Dear President, Minister, colleagues and colleagues! Thank you so much for the president's words. Today I have listened very patiently and slowly to the debates and, of course, if I have heard my colleague say that he was betting on this and that and on account of this much debate, then it is really strange that this Parliament, if I am discussing on the account of some bets and, of course, the practice that is in Slovenia at this moment also comes out of this Parliament, is not pleasant to me. If we want to improve some business environment with some additional law, we do not want to. No, the other way around. We'd make it worse. Do we want to make the conditions worse? So it's not normal and it's not acceptable. I just want to ensure, of course, a more business-friendly environment for all our domestic investors, our domestic companies, as well as foreign investors, because foreign investors are just avoiding us. At the same time, should this law be passed, and I don't know if it means anything to someone or to someone else's job? Okay. Does 10 jobs mean nothing? It's fine, too. Does more than 100 jobs mean nothing to anyone? That surprises me. Probably some people don't even know what it means to have this job. Having a job, ensuring their existence and living out of it and so on. It is funny to talk sometimes about the fact that foreign investments will not improve the economic picture in Slovenia. I say so. Of course they will, too, and so will they. All investments in Slovenia are welcome from several perspectives. The first aspect is, of course, a new job for me, and the second, of course, all investments are welcome especially at a time, i.e. at present, at a time of crisis, which naturally stimulates other jobs. Likely, companies that need to be built if new ones are to come to Slovenia have some new jobs to do as well. Now, of course, it's clear that we're getting a new marriage. It used to be a regulation, as the minister says. This gives us a special mandate to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia or the Ministry of Economy, and at the moment we know two procedures in Slovenia. The first procedure is purely normal. Therefore, the invitation to tender, which is also open now, can be applied to foreign investors by normal procedure and is, of course, special or exceptional. This means direct confirmation of investments, as the Minister said, so it is a matter of specific decisions, when something needs to be done quickly, that is, when an investor comes and has everything ready to invest and it is necessary to decide quickly whether this investment is also extremely important for Slovenia from several perspectives. It is positive to me that from this context we receive new jobs and that these new jobs also include support, that is, if a new company comes and invests in Slovenia, then there is support, which means a large number of subcontractors who usually participate regionally or with their neighbors and in terms of different services, if not, at least transport distribution and other cooperation between different sub-operators, if necessary. It should also be noted that this results in the payment of duties for workers, that this entails all other tax obligations, that other bank transactions arise from this and that such legislation is necessary for Slovenia. Because there have been a lot of debates about some, so some companies have already been mentioned, for example, as Renault. Renault is a special story in Slovenia, a positive story. A positive story in this sense that all the jobs that are at present must also be kept. This is also a positive value, preserving jobs in Slovenia. With Renault, it is probably necessary to say that this is also some way of helping to avoid what some have planned in Slovenia, that is to move some companies elsewhere where there is a more favourable or cheaper workforce. This too needs to be taken into account and this is also true, which is why Renault must continue to be supported. And especially if we look at or if you see a little bit of the list of our eminent newspapers, you see the cooperation of Daimler and Renault, so this is a positive trend that brings us the continuation of this story in Renault and probably also improvements and also new jobs. In such a way that I would hope to say that this law is already in such a way that it must be supported and is quite appropriate for this environment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Anyone else want a word with Mr. Tank? No, no, no. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u154	Thank you so much for saying that. Well, on the basis of these last two discussions by the coalition Members, we can be a little disappointed. The government stated in its explanation that the law should be adopted in order to eliminate the void created by the adoption of another law. That's the key problem. And this law does not fully compensate for a regulation that so far allows for what has been done in this area. This law does not constitute any added value compared to the Regulation, none. The procedures will run as mysterious as they are under the regulation. The National Assembly will not know anything about these important investments or co-financed foreign investments in Slovenia, it did not know by regulation, it will not know by law. Nothing. And here I think it's a problem. If we are adopting some budgetary resources for some dedicated investment and you want a decision from us, then it would be responsible for the government to tell who it is, because it is a dedicated law. It's foreign investment, it's about, I'll be more precise, four foreign investments, so it's written down, and it's supposed to be 971 jobs. That's what the explanation of the government proposal says, so we know everything, we don't just know names. And it is unfair that Members of the National Assembly who have to approve a budgetary resource for some foreign investment hide it. I said earlier that it is possible that Slovenian companies from Cyprus or the Netherlands can also be owned by technology companies from the Netherlands. It can go, but it's probably not a business secret. These companies are there, and there's more of them at the same address and so on. And I wonder whether in these specific cases it is some actual new companies or whether it is taking over existing companies with a few promises to increase employees? This is also one such fundamental issue that should be resolved. However, as long as we do not know who that refers to, this is also a problem. And the other thing is philosophy. At a time when the unemployed are growing enormously, that is to say, when there has been a substantial increase at the Employment Office, this is now said to be somewhere at 115 000 unemployed, the government is tightening the conditions for obtaining state aid for foreign investment. This is said at the time of the biggest crisis, when we need to open things up most in order for these foreign investments to occur, the government is making them worse. And those who have not read the law, look at the regulation, look at the law, and look at our amendment. What the government is proposing is logical in cases where you want to close up when you're cracking foreign investment, that's when you have too many to tighten the terms. In cases where you are rapidly growing unemployed at the Employment Service, you need to open the matter in the opposite direction so that you can get more interested people than you do now. This would be the right way, and this is where our amendment goes. And in this particular case, the government law is a significant deterioration in those conditions that have been enshrined in the regulation. And what's the worst, illogical, is going in the opposite direction. When you need to make the most of your investment, you need to open the matter up, when you've filled things up, when you're actually out of employees or so on, but you can squeeze the conditions for obtaining these funds a little bit. And here's the point of our amendment. And I am surprised by the debates of all those Members in the coalition who are supposed to have so many commendable words about a solution that makes matters worse. Now the secretary can tell you in two sentences that that's true. The regulation has been a milder solution, the law brings harsher conditions, and our amendment has been mitigating these conditions. Is that right? It relaxes them, relaxes them, and I do not understand all those who are so struggling for new jobs that you speak in the opposite direction. It is impossible to expect new investments in Ljubljana, but only in some peripheral areas, such as cross-border matters, where roads are not yet suitable for any foreign investment. And here you should strongly object to these conclusions you have in your debates. On the contrary, our amendments go in the opposite direction. And if we want to do anything concrete in this area, if we want to relax things, then our amendment needs to be accepted. There is no other solution, however, if you want to close things up and make such selection as is the case in government services, when only the electorate comes to important funds, budgetary, important co-financing, or technological development, there, especially since certain matters have already been transferred there by amending the law in this mandate, then this is a problem and I suggest that you support the amendment if you need to change and improve anything else for the third treatment and that the objectives you want are in fact pursued by foreign investment, employment of highly educated personnel, new companies and so on. It's the only way. But if you press it, sharpen it, raise the conditions in these times, it's probably not a proper step. Probably not! As in many other cases, Croatia, Hungary and the rest of the countries have significantly better conditions, significantly more open issues, and investment is also there. All we do is save what's listed in these markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Loise Posede also called. Anyone else? You're talking later. Mr. Lois Posedel, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u156	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. A little joke, although we have also heard a very real announcement on the Committee on the Economy today about how long the debate will be and how this will also show up, a very good move by the Government as the one that is bad, which could be better, but given that there is no colleague of Vision, we have only calculated that it will not be so that we see that there are other experts under the so-called terms that want to show such a simple, logical, and legally necessary move as this amendment to the law. It has been said at least six times, all the parliamentary groups have said that they support this or we support it because it is a real legal void created by the new Public Finance Act and it is necessary to accept this in order to make investments. And without it, without amending the law, it is not really what has been said a little earlier that the regulation is valid and we could have done as it has done so far. No, it is necessary to explicitly adopt this law in order to replace the regulation by this law, with these amendments. Therefore, the Committee on the Economy has also repeatedly said that this is not a deterioration of conditions, but that these criteria are needed to be met in order to ensure that the limited resources available for these direct investments are invested so much better in order to make the effects on our economy, for Slovenia, so much better. So I'm really surprised that the thing that will be good for businesses wants to show up as a bad act and that it could be even better. In the same way as the selection process itself, which has been repeatedly shown that the criteria in the regulation are recorded, that the Commission has a prescribed selection procedure and that this is not done for the selected investors, at least that all the direct arrangements that are taking place and which have been discussed logically before in Parliament or that, as almost required, the Minister of Economy, who are the projects and investors with which this is being prepared, would be questioned by the committee. So, I am convinced that both the conditions that are written are both the criteria and the change itself are good for the economy and that this must be accepted in such a proposed form. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Is there anyone else who would like to discuss this with Mr. Krivica? Mr. Daniel the Slayer, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u158	Thanks again for saying that. The president encouraged me to add something to it. I too have been on the Committee this morning and the Committee has been confined to a two-hour debate due to the continuation of other meetings, and we have also found on the Committee that this article is changing compared to the regulation so far and it has also been announced that we will propose an amendment and in principle the Committee has been inclined to see whether this solution is better or worse than the one currently in force in the regulation. And none of us debaters have said that they are opposed to this law, neither of us has debated that the law is inappropriate or that we do not support it, but we have pointed out that it is not appropriate to make the conditions worse at this point. That's all we're talking about, and I believe you've done a proper examination of the amendment proposed. It does not break any laws, it only restores the conditions in this Article that have been in force in the previous regulation, which have been in force for the last few years and on the basis of which the applications have been made so far, the four of which are mentioned and I do not ask myself, but those four were subject to the conditions laid down in the Regulation and the proposal was that the conditions continue to remain unchanged and the change is worse. If there was a change in the conditions for new investments, they probably wouldn't have submitted an amendment to me. However, since the government is tightening the conditions at this most unfavourable time for investment, it seems appropriate for all of us in this House to keep talking about the need to encourage and provide new jobs, so we felt we needed to propose a solution, as has been the case so far in the regulation, which facilitates the conditions for application. So that the debate on the committee was not actually concluded, the time pressure has led us to think about what amendments there were, although it was an initiative to take a break and propose an amendment, and in this case we would have discussed this on the committee and probably the members of the committee who are getting to know the economy very well in my opinion probably also supported this proposal because it is only reasonable because no one in any debate, nor in the committee, nor here in the National Assembly today, has discussed that it is up to us to make the conditions worse, but you are all talking about that the conditions must be as liberal as possible, open to new investments. Therefore, the amendment corrects this and I ask you to support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u159	Thank you very much. I see that there is no longer a desire to discuss Article 2 and the amendment to Article 2. That is why I am concluding the debate. The amendment will be decided in half an hour in the framework of the vote, which is at 22.25 p.m. in accordance with the timing of the meeting. Can I? I hereby end this item of the agenda and also the 39th session, which will be resumed by the vote at 22.25 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u160	Dear colleagues and colleagues, Members and Members of Parliament, ladies and gentlemen. We are moving on to the vote of the assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the interrupted 1st item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Election and Referendum Campaign. We are continuing with a second reading of the bill's proposal, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 9 February 2011. The two amendments are tabled in Article 2 of the bill; these are amendments by the Slovenian Democratic Party and the Slovenian People's Party in the same text. We will therefore decide on both proposed amendments at the same time. We're voting. Excuse me. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 46. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. Does anyone want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? Mr. Branko Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u161	Your Honor! Of course, the SDS Group will not support the law, whose explanation is read as old jokes by Radio Yerevan. The argument that constitutional regulation is based on a decision of the Constitutional Court in accordance with a decision of the Constitutional Court and the content prescribed by it is, of course, set out in the explanatory memorandum. In fact, it is two years too late to regulate something that should have been regulated by a decision of the Constitutional Court in 2009, in addition to what has been imposed by the Constitutional Court, in fact, the Government would like to place itself in a privileged position against all other entities in this story. In fact, the Court decided only for the benefit of one of the constitutional candidates to request a referendum, this is the Council of State, whereas the government under the Constitution and the law cannot be the one requiring a referendum. These may be electors and electors, 40,000 certified signatures, 30 Members and Members, at least 30 with their signatures, may be the decision of the National Assembly, the majority of all Members and Members or the Council of State. The governments in this story, as they say, are not, and it is obvious that the same political force wants to place in advance a better privileged starting point at a time when, at all ends, the belt is tightened. Why the referendum is such a thorn in the heel, however, it is clear to anyone who has read the textbook on constitutional law The limitation of power, which makes it very clear that the referendum today is the only effective tool for limiting power in the parliamentary system. And that's what this is all about. You're only interested in power without restriction, but we're going to vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? [[No, no, ……]] We are therefore going to vote on the amendment, or we are going to vote on the law as a whole. We're voting. There are 80 Members and Members present, 47 votes against 33. [[The vote was 47.]] [[Against 33.]] I take it the law has been passed. This concludes this agenda item. We continue with the 3rd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Promotion of Foreign Direct Investment and the Internationalisation of Enterprises. We continue with the second reading of this law, this is by deciding on the amendment tabled to Article 2 of the Act. The amendment was tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party. Here you go, Mr. Guilty. On behalf of the delegation? Mr Krivec has an explanation for the vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u163	Thank you for your word. We will, of course, support the amendment tabled in the parliamentary group. However, I appeal to all Members who, in the last period, have had their mouths full of how to deal with the crisis in concrete terms, to enable new jobs, to encourage foreign investments to support these amendments and thus to prove that they have actually started working at this level. For when a concrete proposal comes into the procedure, it is determined whether we are full of words or whether there are concrete actions behind what we are saying. And I think that for most of you, the proposal of a law that stifles the conditions in this case should not be appropriate and we should agree with the amendment, which merely sums up the regulation so far in this case. Once again, I would like to encourage you to move from words to actions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-09-SDZ5-Izredna-39.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? No, no, no. We're moving to the vote. I am putting to the vote an amendment to Article 2 of the Act. We're voting. There are 78 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 44. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 44.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and thus a second reading of the bill in the framework of the urgent procedure. That is why we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a legislative decision. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that due to amendments adopted on the home labour body, the proposal of the law would not be harmonised. We vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 79 Members and Members present, 55 votes against 1. [[The vote was 55.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item and the 39th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much. The meeting was closed on 9 February 2011 at 22.34 p.m.
