ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. I begin the 49th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58(1) and Article 60(2) of the Rules of Procedure. I am informed that today's meeting cannot be attended by the next Member and Members. Mr Roberto Battelli, Mirko Brulc, Mr Franz Bogovich, Mr Matjaž Zanoskar and Mr Vinko Gorenak. Representatives of the Government are invited to the meeting. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 49th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Monday 17 October 2011 by reference to the meeting, with one item on the agenda alone, this is the second reading of the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Road Traffic Rules Act. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with Article 64(2) of the Rules of Procedure. We are moving on to the consideration and decision-making of proposals for an extension of the agenda. The Group of 11 Members and Members, first signed by Ms Majdo Shirca Ravnikar, submitted to the assembly a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, a reduced procedure. On 19 October 2011, the Group of 23 Members and Members, first signed by Majdo Shirca Ravnikar, submitted an application for an extraordinary meeting of the assembly. In view of this, I propose that the agenda of the 49th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly be extended by considering that proposal. You were informed of this proposal by letter of 20. Ten. 2011. She would like to speak with the representatives of the proposed bill, which is a group of Members and Members with the first signed Mrs Majdo Shirco Ravnikar. Does he? Mrs. Majda Shirc Ravnik, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u2	The proposal that we have on the table today does not have only majority support in the National Assembly and in the Council of State but I also speak on behalf of the Office of the Ombudsman, the Association for the Rights of Patients, Children, the Associations for the Civil Health of Public Health, for us, on behalf of the advisory centres for children, adolescents and parents, especially the one in Ljubljana and also on behalf of the State Council and the Council, which, on the basis of the disclosures on the protection of children and adolescents in the event that the parents do not have all the contributions paid, proposed that legislation be amended as soon as possible or as possible or in the common good way that children or minors will not receive only emergency health care, as is now provided for in the Law, in the event that the contributions are not settled but also other assistance. In short, there will be such a situation that they get if I simplify only the bait but that the bait can also be followed by rehabilitation. Not only do they get anti-asthma medications that are urgently saved from a medical emergency but they also have the right to rehabilitation. This problem has brought time, is acute, is inconsistent with the Convention on the Rights of the Child and also with our Constitution, so I believe that there will be no problem in supporting these changes, which go only to Article 78 of the Law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u3	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government? Yes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u4	At the Ministry of Health, we have already faced this problem and we wanted to resolve it comprehensively in the context of the amendment of the Health Insurance Act, but in this case we wanted this procedure, as envisaged, to be respected and to support the solution proposed by the Group of Members. In view of the regulation now in force in the law that actually discriminates against children under the age of eighteen, which, in the spirit of marriage, would have the right to all kinds of health services regardless of the insurance of the status of their parents or their parents, but because of the formalities introduced in the preceding novelty, a certain group, that is, a group of those children whose parents have not paid the contribution and are independent entrepreneurs of this benefit or are unable to exercise that right. Therefore, although this issue is not fully resolved, there are other irregularities and inconsistencies that prevent certain groups of insured persons from exercising healthcare rights in the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, we believe that this novelty is necessary in order to support it and, at the outset, to resolve at least the problems that these children have with regard to the exercise of healthcare rights. I suggest you support such a solution.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? Anyone but Mr. Barovich? No, no, no. Then you have the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u6	Thank you, Mr. President. You heard yourself talking to a nice guy you called an hour ago. In the Slovenian National Party, we absolutely support that, in addition to the basic agenda for which the meeting was convened, the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance is included as an extension. Of course, we absolutely disagree with the fact that there is still a mandate to discuss electoral matters at this meeting. Therefore, I would be very happy if, for the benefit of all of us, we would, if not already, consider each point of enlargement or vote on each point of enlargement separately. Look, otherwise you're gonna make us have to, because we want the law on healthcare to go under expansion, so we're gonna have to confirm with it the election issue, which I don't think is fair and fair. However, if you allow us, Mr President, to decide on each point individually, then I think it would be very fair and fairer, in fact, and it would be fair if I had this opportunity to accept the Slovenian National Party's proposal to withdraw from this proposal to extend the electoral process in full. So we want to talk about the Health and Health Insurance Act in addition to the announced point, and we absolutely oppose the resolution of the election cases on the last day of the existence and meeting of this National Assembly, and in an extraordinary session. I think that this is fair and fair, and that this is not only the opinion of the Slovenian National Party, but everyone who thinks honestly at this moment in this National Assembly. So please, if you can take any of the proposals into account, if not, I will try to pursue other procedures in business, so that these two points of importance for the Slovenes and Slovenians can deal with the electoral issues on a mandate basis, and in any event, the next power can be resolved peacefully within a period of two months, according to its conscience and its judgment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u7	Thank you very much, Mr. Bogdan Barovich. We are voting on each enlargement point separately and whether or not to put it on the agenda, we will decide on each proposal for enlargement separately. Then we will decide on the agenda as a whole. I am closing the debate on the proposal for enlargement and moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We decide on the proposal to extend the agenda by considering the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Health and Health Insurance Act following a reduced procedure. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. It's 55 votes against no one. [[The vote was 55.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. The assembly will consider the draft law as item 2 of the agenda today after item 1 of the agenda. The mandate-holder committee proposes to the assembly that the agenda of the 49th extraordinary meeting of the assembly be extended by a term of election. You were informed of this proposal by letter dated 20 October 2011. The rapporteur, Mr Bojan Kontic, wishes to speak. He doesn't want to. Would you like a word from the government? He doesn't want to. The representatives of the parliamentary groups would like to speak? It's just a group of Members then I'm filing a complaint. [[...]] On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u8	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, I say that we will vote against the extension of the voting order, point three, of the opposite vote. Above all, it does not seem fair to us and it does not seem fair to us to decide on this, I repeat, the last day of the extraordinary meeting and a few hours before the dissolution of the National Assembly, which will take place at 00:01, although our work will of course continue. I estimate that the mandate of electoral matters is a matter of long-term content that would be fair and right for the future Government to decide, of course, and not so far away, you know that this will happen within a month and a half. I also call on colleagues and colleagues to make the same decision at all points of enlargement of the Mandate-Election Commission. I think that this will be the fairest approach both to these people who are to be decided on in the Mandate-Election Commission, as well as to a future authority that we do not know which will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Branko Grims has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u10	Your Honor! Here we face one of the things that in the democratic world and in some normal political culture would certainly not be proposed today for the agenda. In fact, the question in the field of constitutional law is about what are those urgent matters that the Government can do. Again it is proposed for the agenda of the Meeting of the National Assembly a number of proposals formulated by the Government in resignation, which, by the Constitution and the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, has the only right to carry out urgent pending matters and nothing else. What is happening now, according to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia's untrustworthy vote, when it proposes new and new human resources solutions for the entire mandate period, is, of course, a purely ordinary abuse of law and is clearly contrary to the constitutional principles that bind us all, the National Assembly, all officials and all those in the Government who consciously open the way to their friends, acquaintances, political travellers for long-term earnings in well-paid jobs and at the same time the foundations of a large scale of glass in the system of the next Government. Not only is it extremely inappropriate, I warn you again, it is also obviously illegal, it is against the Constitution, and in the SDS Group we will certainly oppose such proposals for enlargement. The government should not, by way of derogation, resolve any human resources issue, except in exceptional cases, put someone in charge of duty, with a limited mandate, for a limited duration. Everything else means a drastic excess of powers, meaning that the constitutional framework of the State of Slovenia is knowingly being breached, and means that it is intended to create a situation in which, in the next term, a wide range of areas are likely to need to be examined as to whether there is anything else that can be saved or whether the solutions are appropriate. And I firmly believe that it is those who today are causing this obvious unconstitutional situation who are overstepping their powers, who will then start shouting and shouting, and who are referring to God to the knowledge of what principles, ethics, and something similar. The only ethical thing to do is to be aware of all restrictions on authority, and one of the fundamental principles of the restriction of power is that once the Government has been voted on by a non-disclosure, it cannot and must not or must not propose anything that goes beyond the framework of urgent work. Today is [[...]] [[Turn off the microphone.]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Guido Kres will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u12	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Today, at an informal meeting, we have found that we have knowledge, as well as wisdom. I would appeal, let's give, let's activate this wisdom and the third point, the optional issues, let's just not discuss and leave it for the next term. I think it'll be the right thing to do, the wisest thing, and we have the knowledge for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u13	Thank you very much. There are no further statements to explain the views, so I am concluding the debate on the proposal for enlargement. We are moving on to a decision on that proposal to extend the agenda. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 39 votes against 27. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 27.]] I note that the proposal for enlargement has been adopted. In this regard, I also inform you that, under this item, we will deal with six matters, which are marked from letter a to letter e, which you received today by the President of the Commission of Mandate. The National Assembly will treat electoral matters as item 3 of the agenda after item 2 of the agenda has been concluded. I inform you that Member Anton Anderlič tabled a proposal yesterday, 19 October 2011, to extend the agenda of this meeting by the agreement on the work of the National Assembly at the time of discharge, which was adopted by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its 119th meeting, on 14 October 2011 and which you received by letter of 17 October 2011. The national assembly for the consideration of that agreement is not competent and the proposal for enlargement is contrary to Article 64, paragraph 7, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. In view of this, the National Assembly will not consider extending the agenda for an extraordinary meeting. Would you like a word, Mr. Anton Anderlich? It's like a procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u14	Dear Mr. President. In this mandate, we do not have any luck in citing the meetings of the National Assembly and the meetings of the working bodies of the National Assembly, and I am not surprised at why there have already been two requests for the discharge of the previous President and the practice is repeated, and I am ascribed to those who are preparing these meetings not to you. It is simply that you have exceeded your powers at the College and are contrary to Rule 21 of the Rules of Procedure, which states: "In the case of a decision by the College, the decision of the College is taken if the proposal is supported by the leaders of the parliamentary groups whose members represent more than half of all Members in the National Assembly, the majority of the College's will is determined by the President of the National Assembly." However, in an agreement that you say is only an agreement, you have decided that the College will agree to a hearing at an extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly if the proposal is supported by the leaders of the parliamentary groups whose members represent two-thirds of the representatives of the total number of Members present. So, at this point, you've exceeded the powers you had at the College and even if you're pleading it's a deal. This is about things that change most of the rules of procedure that you can decide on. I myself hope that this agreement will not have to be realized at this time and that the matter will be, I will say, forgotten, because unacceptable practice will not be established, which is what happens when Mr Plevelje explains, is some consistent practice and we will work after that. If there is any legal void, let it be regulated by a new mandate in a manner appropriated in accordance with our Rules of Procedure and the Constitution. I believe that, as in many cases, lawyers have different views that constitutional lawyers have different views on this issue. I have at least five opinions from constitutional lawyers, two of them writing a constitution, some of them participating in a constitutional commission, when we were working together, but those who were here when we adopted the constitution, and of course they say quite differently that there were no situations that would dictate the adoption of such an agreement. This agreement would be fully corrected if, fellow Members, it were adopted in this Assembly. I don't understand why you fell for those who whisper to you that this is not within the jurisdiction of the National Assembly. Dear colleagues and colleagues. They stole our parliament. It is only Parliament that decides on how it will work, what rules it will lay down, and certainly not on the College, which has strict powers. Moreover, if a group of Members disagrees with this decision, it may be reviewed and decided again by the National Assembly. [[...]] [[A warning sign for the end of the debate.]] We didn't have those options either. [[...]] I regret what happened and let's move forward happily.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u15	Thank you very much, Mr. Tone Anderlich. Let me explain a few things. There are no constitutional or commercial provisions on the manner or extent of the work of the National Assembly at the time of dissolution. It is therefore a legal void, which would be legally possible to fill it correctly only with an appropriate amendment or addition to the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. Can I finish? Since the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly or its amendments and additions are adopted on the basis of the reasonable application of the rules of procedure for the adoption of law, it has been assessed, in view of the announced dissolution of the National Assembly, that no amendments and additions to the Rules of Procedure can be adopted within a given time frame. Taking into account the above-mentioned time constraints and the fact that there are no other legally binding possibilities for regulating this legal void, it has been assessed that only political agreement can be reached in the work of the National Assembly at the time of dissolution. On the content of this agreement, i.e. on the manner in which the National Assembly is working during its dissolution, I first called for consultations with constitutional experts and then 4 informal consultations with the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the leaders of the parliamentary groups and members of the national communities. On this basis, I took note of the record of the constitutional experts' discussion and prepared working material for informal consultations. I have asked all those invited to give their views or comments in writing on the work material. This was provided by only one parliamentary group and was also taken into account when preparing the final text. The College of the President of the National Assembly discussed the text of the agreement on Friday, 14.10.2011 and adopted it by consensus. All the leaders of the parliamentary groups present voted in favour, representing as many as 87 Members and Members. Let me stress once again that this is a legal void which, due to the legal void, could not be regulated by the adoption of amendments or the addition of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, and there are no other legally binding possibilities for this. For this reason, a political agreement was drawn up and adopted on the part of the National Assembly at the time of its dissolution, by making reasonable application of the provisions on the majority necessary for the adoption of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. This agreement is not prepared in the form of an act of the National Assembly, which, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, could be decided by the National Assembly, but it is undoubtedly a political agreement that binds us politically. Mr. Anton Anderlich, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u16	Look, Mr President, I suggest that you do not explain any further, because you will further complicate the situation in terms of respect for the various powers that someone has. Who is the one who adopts the most binding political agreement? Who? The National Assembly as the highest legislative body. And why did you prevent the National Assembly from adopting a political agreement on how it would work at that time? This is my point, and I have only suggested that you present this political agreement to us and that the National Assembly treats it and accepts it, because, as I went to look at the 14.10. magnetogram, there was not a single debate. There have been some explanations again, Mr Plevell, and I only regret it here, and I hope that it is not necessary to continue, the matter has been concluded for me, I do not have anything here, but if, since then, when Parliament has been disbanded and there has been much talk about who will work and the Government and Parliament and so on, we have participated many in various debates, on televisions, on round tables and so on, but you have not even attracted professional colleagues from the business commission, except the business committee, you have not informed her that you intend to do this and that what you are now explaining is not correct, because the interpretation is just as you have written here or as I have written down that, in accordance with Article 37 of the Rules of Procedure, you are monitoring and giving an opinion on the implementation of the Rules of Procedure for Business Commission and nobody else. And I am sorry that this is the case, but I suggest that we conclude this point, we have concluded and I really hope that this agreement will not have to be realized, but if so, I hope that the assembly will participate more actively at that point and that it will be involved.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u17	Thank you very much, Mr. Anderlich. We are moving on to a decision on the agenda as a whole. We move to a vote on the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as received by reference and with the amendments adopted. We're voting. There are 58 Members and Members present. 43 votes against no one. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the agenda of the 49th Extraordinary Meeting of the Assembly has been set. We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY - THIS IS ANOTHER RELEVANT PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENT AND SUPPLEMENT OF THE RULES OF ROAD TRANSPORT LAWS UNDER THE REGULAR PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with the first signed Jozet Tank. At its 28th urgent meeting, on 20 October 2011, the draft law was considered by the Transport Committee as a working mother. Since the committee of articles of the draft law was not adopted after the discussion, the second consideration of the draft law was completed at the working body meeting. I give the floor to the representatives of the parliamentary groups to present their views. Mr Janko Weber has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u18	Thank you for your word and a nice welcome on behalf of the parliamentary group of Social Democrats. Let me say immediately in the introduction that in the Group of Social Democrats we are pleased with the Committee on Transport's decision not to adopt the articles of the Road Traffic Rules Act, which has been tabled in the procedure by the Group of Members and Members. This is a very grave breach in the Road Traffic Rules Act, which, while in good faith, would try to mitigate the level of penalties and the time limits for paying these penalties, but it is very gravely interfering with both the Road Traffic Rules Act and the Law on Offences Act, and also in the opinion of the Legal Service, would in fact prevent the implementation of the Road Traffic Rules Act and also the punishment of those who commit traffic offences. The definition of applicants for easier offences is of course extremely controversial, as it is difficult for us to agree that it is an easier offense if you do not use the safety belt. We also note that we cannot agree in any way that, in the winter, it is not necessary to clean both the passenger and the freight vehicle, because opacity, poor visibility and, last but not least, the parts of snow that can fall off freight vehicles are sometimes extremely dangerous. In other words, aggressive driving in temperate areas, i.e. in an area where it is intended primarily for pedestrians, could lead to a tragic accident. Also, the use of mobile phones in drivers and cyclists is in many cases the cause of accidents. In fact, over 20 kilometers per hour, a 20 - mile [20 km / hr] drive is also tolerated in the settlements, which is, of course, extremely controversial again in the areas when we meet playgrounds, playing areas, because on Saturdays and Sundays, children and, of course, in the game forget their safety as they approach the road. These are the reasons why we voted against this law on the Committee on Transport and we believe that it is indeed irresponsible at the end of this mandate to take decisions that would give a very controversial message to drivers or road users that everything is actually allowed, and that the penalty will probably not fly, because if this were adopted, the law could not be implemented in practice. This would, of course, be totally contrary to the logic of road safety and, last but not least, would undermine that achievement, which was also achieved in the mandate of the previous government, when the fines increased by 100% dramatically and many accidents were reduced. In this reference, Parliament has adopted a new law in road traffic rules, which also refers to these penalties, but there has been a drastic increase in penalties only for driving in the opposite direction on the highway and for driving under the influence of alcohol. In others, increases were significantly lower, some 20%. So that, because we don't ruin the extremely important and courageous decisions here in Parliament at the expense of some policeman ever doing his job in a way that, let's say, he doesn't like it most, it would be like I said extremely irresponsible. In the Group of Social Democrats, we once again welcome the decisions of the Transport Committee, which did not support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u19	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Mag will present his position. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u20	Dear colleagues and colleagues, honourable President, the Road Traffic Rules Act, which was passed last December and entered into force in the middle of this year, as well as all previous laws, which increased the penalties for certain road traffic or road safety violations, have therefore dramatically increased these penalties and eventually led to one excessive situation. The penalties for traffic offences, especially the smaller ones, are very high in Slovenia, too high for the purchasing power of our population, and compared to other European Union countries such as Germany, Austria is much higher. In fact, this is the result of some of the logic of some narrow - looking experts who see only in criminal policy, only in higher fines, a means by which they think they will achieve a reduction in the number of offences or the behavior of people as some robots, who will follow all the stupidities that are prescribed by either of them and put the road manager not least in the form of road signs. Today we have Slovenian roads written as a New Year's tree of various signs, which are more or less unimaginable, unprofessionally placed. And sticking to all the impossible limits is of course true art and has nothing to do with ensuring security often. Because these designations are often non-professional and they are set up I do not know when what will come, in particular in some parts that have not yet begun. There are a lot of restrictions here. Restrictions and designations of settlements where the settlement is not actually starting at all. And as a result, of course, police officers like to use these inadvertently placed signs as a reason to punish, either too fast or any other offence, although it is obviously not a threat to anyone for five, 10 or 15 km faster driving. That is why, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed that in cases of minor offences, where it is evident that there is no danger of road safety, a warning should be given first and only if a repetition of the offence takes place within one year, a prescribed fine is imposed. In this way, we want to make strict penal legislation a little closer to people. In fact, I am disappointed that many responsible at the Ministry of the Interior and the Ministry of Transport live in a closed virtual world away from people's problems. I'm sorry, dear coalition colleagues, but you obviously live in such a virtual world. Clearly, you are not affected by the problems of those citizens who have been ingrained in the past period, even though they have not done anything that would endanger road safety. Stopped about by some bush just by the settlement board although there was no settlement there. They were stopped in front of toll stations where restrictions are impossible. They were stopped for such a reason and for a different reason and did not endanger security but were ingrained and, of course, the consequence or sanction of the inexcusable provisions you adopted in December and were enforced by 1. This year's 7th. So, ladies and gentlemen, we want to make legislation on criminal policy and road traffic offences a little bit more lifelike and a little closer to reality. People who are respected are not machines, people will not follow all the impossible labels they see on the roads and have nothing to do with common sense. And these people are being punished and, of course, we are not proposing that these penalties be at least a little relieved for those offences that do not endanger road safety. You voted on the committee against such solutions, coalition members, members of the Social Democrats, members of the Liberal Democrats, DeSUS Members and, of course, prevented the adoption of this law, which reflects the needs and expectations of the people. I believe that you have done a poor service to those who have, of course, been persecuted by unnecessary law enforcement authorities and even those who will continue to do so in the coming days.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u21	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u22	Thank you for the floor, Mr President, dear colleagues and colleagues. In opening, I would like to say that most members and members of the Group of Members really welcome today's decision of the parent working body, which today did not support SDS's proposal to resolve the amendment of the Road Traffic Rules Act, which was the main purpose of which I mentioned at first reading, so that for some offences which they said would not directly endanger road safety and which would not cause harmful traffic consequences in the first time, instead of a fine, there was a warning. If a road traffic operator repeated the offence over a period of one year and the official would not have given him a warning, he would have punished himself with the prescribed fine. A novelty was decided in the Slovenian Democratic Party because the new law imposes much more severe penalties than the previous law on road safety, which applied until 30. 6. 2011. At the same time, the proposaler forgets to mention that the penalties increased dramatically in 2008, which was during the previous government of Janez Janša. In fact, we can agree with the SDS's concerns on the amount of penalties imposed by the new law introduced in the Road Safety Act. At the time of adoption in Zares, we proposed that the most appropriate level of penalties should be to adjust the level of personal income or the property condition of the infringementr of road traffic regulations. Unfortunately, no parliamentary group backed our proposal at the time, so we withdrew and did not insist. Well, again, I am surprised that the SDS Group just before the early elections to the National Assembly has submitted a new law that opposes the level of the penalties currently prescribed without being reduced but only introduces one-year layoffs. I reiterate that, should the content be adopted, it would be contrary to the General Offences Act to introduce non-systemic changes or to introduce reminders with one-year leave. The current Road Traffic Rules Act follows the main objectives of the country's transport security policy, namely to reduce the number of accidents in which persons are injured and fatal accidents. Therefore, with pride and upright attitude as part of the legislative body, I reiterate my satisfaction that such non-systemic solutions have not been adopted on the Committee. Preventing and changing the thinking of Slovenian drivers is one that we must pursue in the future without any forgiveness, because, as a fellow member of the committee said, insofar as the law means the salvation of one life, the solution of one disability undoubtedly achieves its purpose. In short, in the Group of Members, we really believe that the safety of our citizens and our children on the roads is significantly more important than one single or one hundred or a thousand pre-election points. That is why we have not supported this proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u23	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Janez Ribič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u24	Dear Members and Members. Nicely greeted. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we regret that this Parliament, by rejecting the law on the committee, after the collapse of the coalition, has missed the opportunity to make life easier for citizens and citizens at the early conclusion of the mandate with this small measure. In this mandate, Members of the Slovenian People's Party have also proposed that for the worst crimes resulting from serious injury and even death, for example, for the opposite direction of the highway, it is necessary to threaten sufficiently high and effective penalties in order to prevent them. However, we reiterate that this is not enough for road safety, preventive education, safe driving training and, of course, safer and properly equipped and marked roads are important. When adopting new road rules, we had a lot of comments and proposals. We have warned that penalties must be reasonable and proportionate, given the severity of the offence and the possible consequences. The legal novelty interferes with the recently established rules, which in fact caused a lot of disapproval and comments. Citizens and citizens are also referred to our Group of Members, and they point to cases that in fact point to the excessive involvement of authorities in the collection of penalties for offences. With the proposed amendment, fellow Members proposed that a reminder should be given instead of a fine for small offences that do not directly endanger the safety of road transport and that do not cause harmful consequences in traffic. This would certainly not compromise road safety and cause more accidents, so it is impossible to understand that such a positive law with such unconvincing objections was therefore rejected on the committee itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u25	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Anton Urh will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u26	Thank you for your word. Dear Mr President, Mr Secretary of State. Dear Members and Members. He rightly stated that we members of the DeSUS also participated in the decision that this law did not come or that the law was concluded in the form it was. I'm certainly proud of this as a Member of the DeSUS. The proposer or proposer shall say that the penalties are too high in certain cases. Here I wonder what this right amount of punishment is to be acceptable. For us ordinary people, every fine, every punishment is high or too high, but this is a reflection of the fact that penalties are when we do not respect rules and laws that we must respect for road traffic rules. Look at the road. You don't wonder who's got the wallet, who's weak and who's not. The road and traffic on the road require the rules laid down. And let that lead us. No law is good and no law is acceptable to ordinary people, nor is it possible to do so, but if the law on road rules saves at least one life, if it solves tragedies, then this law, or this law, has its purpose. When the last performance is in this call from the National Assembly, there's only one more thing. If we respect all road traffic rules, as the legislator says, then we do not have to be afraid of the height of the penalty, nor of safe driving. That is why I want a safe and careful ride for all users of Slovenian roads, also honourable Members and Members of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u27	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Silven Majhenič will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u28	Dear Mr. President. This law does not interfere with the most serious offenses but with the part of the legislation where they are offences of a nature that are not a threat to anyone and are an offence that a police officer could categorize with a warning. The law does not exclude alcoholics and drivers who are under the influence of illicit substances. No one wants the driver structure to go down, but the driver culture to go down, but as we can see, repressive measures are not effective. What does the current law offer us? It offers this, as we have seen, that the municipalities in their budgets are planning the proceeds of offences. As can be seen from the case of the Municipality of Ljubljana and for EUR 5.2 million. To send a year and more of the old decisions on payments and penalty points back, and these were sent by the Ljubljana City Municipality in June over 11,000. As we see, we hunt for drivers only on minor offenses, in settlements where radars are set up, with signs that limit speed. Speed certainly kills, but if you take into account traffic restrictions and rules and adjust the speed of road conditions, accidents will also be reduced by accidents. We are all involved in traffic, such as car drivers, very dangerous motorists and cyclists, and also pedestrians must comply with the rules applicable to them. It is not logical, however, to go across the border where traffic is even more dense, there are probably no fewer accidents, because if we follow traffic across Europe, we find that accidents are even more difficult there than we are with us, there are hundreds and more vehicles involved in chain collisions when the conditions on the road are poor with fog and smoothness. What am I trying to say? Although there are several times higher standards, they have lower penalties and do not increase penalties despite the increase in accidents when they analyze the situation and do not react in a panic. I am sure that in poor road conditions, we have this prevention and respect when conditions are poorly present, with our drivers, more than with foreign drivers. Who's driving and breaking up with us? Mostly foreigners, especially truckers, who don't take any warnings on the highway and in the tunnels, and I must say that I've never seen any of these violators stopped by the police. Penalising people in cash and even with the withdrawal of points is not productive at the end of the phase with the withdrawal of a driver's license for small offences. Some know that repression is still not a goal, but what if someone can't pay and it's always been a lot, even when the penalties were even lower. We're going to build dams on this? For the greater capacity of people, they've been locked up and put into this account at work? However, as far as reminders are concerned, there is no problem, since the police have been monitoring the work of every police officer for a long time, and there is no fear that a colleague who will be at work on the second day or within a week would have no data if he stopped the same offender, and in any case, a conditional reminder would have a greater effect than a financial penalty, all professionals who are professionally involved in this matter know. If you don't have the right winter equipment and you're causing traffic disturbances, there's 500 euros and 5 penalty points. Look, if you came to Parliament today, in the morning, now that you're going home, you're going to drive, some of you have bad road conditions, and you don't have winter equipment, it'll cost you 500 euros and 5 penalty points. So it would be right if we all thought about it. Apparently, the former coalition is doing a poor service to the Slovenes and the Slovenians. We all agree that road accidents need to be reduced, not least you had the opportunity to secure railway crossings, where the most fatal accidents have occurred, but you have done nothing to convince us today that you understand the problem of traffic and the causes of accidents, because you never knew how to listen, colleagues and colleagues from the former coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will present the position on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Bojan Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we have always supported all discussions, taking into account all opinions concerning transport safety. The fact is that the legislation we are talking about today and we want to change, we have adopted some year ago, and it was enforced with July of this year. The results of transport safety in Slovenia are good and are improving, the number of victims in transport is smaller and this is an important and necessary message. It seems too early to us that after a few months, some solutions that work in practice would change for better or for worse, but with attention and concern we have listened to all the problems that these marriage solutions proposed by the Ministry of Transport cause. On the other hand, our thoughts also go in this direction, that of course the time to change this solution will be something else and that just before the elections to open up these issues, which will become a pre-election topic, is not wise, not wise. The decision of each of us, when we commit an offence, when we also pay the penalty, is, of course, in our heads, in our hands behind the wheel and on our feet. Of course, in these difficult times the penalties are high, sometimes too high and painful, but I must tell you from my personal experience, I had the opportunity to be at what some funerals where the victims were young participants in traffic and I must say that at that time I would be present, even though nothing is due or not guilty, the greatest punishment, so in the Liberal Democracy Club we estimate that this moment is not yet suitable to change the solution, and in any way we are close to those thoughts that enable people who find themselves in distress, to provide some reasonable, perhaps even extended time to pay the penalty. Until then, the decision on how we will act in traffic, how many crimes we commit is primarily in our hands, our feet and our heads.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u31	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. In accordance with the Commission’s interpretation of the Rules of Procedure of 9 December 2009, the National Assembly notes that the legislative procedure on the draft law has been completed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 2. PERIOD OF THE DAY - IT'S ON THE DEFINITIVE PROPOSAL OF THE AMENDMENTS AND SUPPORTS OF THE HEALTH PROTECTION AND HEALTH PROTECTION LAW, AFTER A COMPLETE PROCEDURE. The draft law was tabled by a group of eleven Members and Members with the first signed by Mrs Majdo Shirca Ravnikar. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed bill, Mrs Maja Širca Ravnikar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u32	Respectable. The Novela answers the question of what happens in cases where the parents after whom the children are insured do not have settled obligations, of course for the area of health insurance. In fact, if contributions are not paid, children cannot get all the medical attention they need. This means that today children, adolescents do not have all the health services provided. Shares are only necessary but not left with health care and, as has already been said, a child can receive a mate, not rehabilitation after a break or injury, he can receive an infection medicine or not a longer treatment for asthma or the disease he needs to treat. This truth has particularly hit hard in recent times of crisis, so we can say that this novel literally saves time, dictates time, because we are facing an ever-increasing failure to pay contributions, which is a particular issue, and in this place it would also be worth stressing this, integral question, the non-payment of contributions will be regulated by the novel if adopted in the State Council, which touches on this issue. But we are dealing with the issue of children's rights as enshrined in the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, which does not distinguish between emergency and other medical care, and we are also talking about Articles 54 and 56 of the Constitution, and we are finally talking about the moral principles and ethical principles that this society can defend and must defend. And if I'm talking about ethical principles, I'm stressing that when doctors and healthcare professionals face situations where they shouldn't offer help and treatment, even for non-essential health care, we know that. But if medical workers who take care of children without insurance offer assistance, they always risk being punished for the provision of services without financial coverage. And ethically and solely in this way, it is necessary to act in accordance with the laws and therefore the amendment of this Article 78 is more than necessary. I would like to point out that, therefore, it is not only Members and Members of Parliament who are convinced of this change, but that they have literally enrolled in the Association for the Rights of Sick Children, as well as in the Association for the Civil Control of Public Health, as in the report of the Ombudsman at the Advisory Centres. The very advice that was the fruit and result of such complaints and observations that took place on the ground that took place in the State Council brought conclusions, so to speak, stating that a novelty should be cut down into this law. And in this sense, I believe that there will be no major problems in the National Assembly in this movement. Many will say, as we have already heard at the meetings of the committee itself, that other solutions need to be found, that not only are children here, that parents are also, that mothers and so on, and that the system is especially for self-employed people when they cannot pay for such and other reasons and that it creates new injustices. But these are questions that we cannot resolve in one article, as the Government itself has already said. In its project and its vision, the government has also drawn up such solutions. It has prepared a strategy, but what helps us when we are in a state where we are, and when the legislation on strategy and overall vision recorded there by 2020 cannot be implemented. But we can do something that's not integrated, but it's extremely important. After all, it eliminates discrimination, upholds the Constitution, the Convention and brings us down with our own conscience. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Health Committee as a working mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the Vice-President of the Committee, Ms Mag. Andrei Richter.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u34	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! At its 10th regular meeting, on 13 October 2011, the Committee of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia considered the draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance, submitted by the group of Members with the first signed Majdo Shirca Ravnikar, which gave an introductory explanation on behalf of the applicants. In doing so, she stressed that the existing Health and Health Insurance Act laid down in Article 15 the category of insurers we classify as 25. Article 20 provides that children shall be insured as family members of the insured under the conditions laid down in the law. On the basis of Article 78a in force, insurance undertakings and their family members shall retain their rights to health services and to compulsory health insurance benefits at the time when they do not have paid their contributions. Until then, only necessary treatments may be applied to compulsory health insurance. The purpose of that proposal is therefore to enable the full exercise of children's rights in the field of health under compulsory health insurance. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service explained the following in writing the opinion and made comments on Articles 1 and 2 of the proposal. She pointed out that the basic purpose and purpose of the draft law was to regulate the protection of children's rights, as the bill stipulated that children were not deprived of their right to health care at a time when their family members did not have equal contributions to health insurance. It noted, however, that the provision of the proposed new second paragraph, if it was to be in the full interest of the children, should be supplemented by the rule under which rights are not retained, including, in addition to the right to health services, the right to payment of compulsory health insurance benefits. The representative of the Ministry of Health, the Secretary of State, presented the Government's opinion and stressed that the Government supports the proposed law. The Ministry of Health is aware of this problem and supports any changes that could lead to its speedy solution. At the same time, the drafters of the law point out that the proposed third paragraph is wrong and unnecessary. The opinion of the State Council of the Republic of Slovenia, the Commission for Social Protection, Labour, Health and Disabled Persons was presented by Mr Peter Požun and stressed that the Commission had considered the draft law at its 61st regular meeting and fully supported it. It calls on the proposers to clear up the text of the bill in the legislative procedure with amendments by qualified applicants and, in particular, to update the proposed third paragraph. A written opinion on the bill was also forwarded to the Committee by the Institute for Health Insurance of Slovenia. The meeting was attended by Director Sam Fakin, who presented the opinion and attached himself to the bill. In the debate, the members of the Committee agreed that the problem must be resolved, but it is certainly necessary to start reforms in the field of health and health insurance, which awaits the new government. In accordance with Article 128 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Health Committee voted on all articles of the draft law and adopted them in full. By including the amendments in the legislative proposal, he has thus set out the text of the amended bill, which is an integral part of this report. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u35	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. You have the floor, Dr. Ivan Ergen, Secretary of State of the Ministry of Health.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Respectable members and members of the National Assembly. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia is aware of the problems related to inadequate insurance solutions for individual categories of insured persons, as now defined in the Health and Health Insurance Act. These irregularities or difficulties in accessibility due to inadequate treatment of individual categories of insurers are more than the one that the group of Members decided to intervene with the proposal for a new law. As a result, the government has also supported the solutions proposed by the Ministry of Health in relation to health and health care reform processes. Unfortunately, there was not enough time for these changes, which we have also prepared, to bring to this high assembly and we have suggested that you decide on them and allow for a better and fairer health insurance and adequate access to health insurance rights. Thus, we have no choice but to support and we are glad that this initiative has resulted in at least one group of insured persons who have been given free access, including the spirit of the law itself, because we have written down in the law that all the rights of children or adolescents up to the age of 18 are available free of charge, without any extra charge. And we all know that children and adolescents are also entitled to this, and this administrative prison, which has been created, is actually unworthy of our system or our definition, which is definitely that we are supporters of all solutions that allow equal and fair treatment of groups that are either more vulnerable because of their social situation or because of their characteristics. That is why we support this solution and propose to the National Assembly that this amendment, together with the amendments, be supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u37	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr France Tsukati has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues. The law that solves the issue of the health care of children whose parents have this bad luck that the legislator does not pay them social contributions. For these children, the issue is important, and as far as our economic situation is concerned, it is increasingly topical, but in terms of the overall and increasingly difficult health care problems, it is only one stone in the mosaic that is becoming increasingly severe. At the end of the year, the health treasury will have €55 million deficits, €18 million will be covered by its own reserves and €37 million will run out. As a result, payment deadlines will be extended, and hospitals and health care homes will be paid at an ever-increasing rate. The health department also predicts a lower share of payment of certain health services, dental prosthetics, non-emergency transport, intermediate-leaf medicines, glasses and the like, the cashier will pay half as much as he has paid so far, so the burden of payment of health care is transferred to supplementary health insurance and thus directly to the insurance community. This has been happening more and more noticeably for many years. In 2006, we spent 2.4 billion euros on health care and 3.2 billion last year. So in 2006, 8.3% of gross social product, and last year, 9% of GDP. In 2006, compulsory health insurance contributed 80 per cent of these funds and last year only 70 per cent, the rest came from the pockets of insured persons, 14 per cent from supplementary health insurance and 16 from direct payments. From year to year, the health insurance situation is deteriorating dangerously, and we obviously do not have a heart for government policy in this area. First, Minister Miklavčič ensured that by the end of 2009 the National Assembly would adopt the Law on Health Care and Health Insurance and then the promise was made by the end of 2010, and Minister Marusič extended this promise until the end of 2011. Well, it can now be used for early elections, but that doesn't help us. The problem that should have been solved long ago will be exacerbated in this time period, and in the following year we can expect a 200 million-dollar loss of medical bills. In fact, there will be no loss because we will no longer be able to repay ourselves, but we will have stagnation and a decline in health care by firing employees, abolishing individual ambulances, closing down duty stations and hospital departments, in short, fewer health services. All of this is genuine, confusing, painful, because we should have long since rationalized health care, updated its management, adopted a rational basket of health rights, and redesigned supplementary health insurance. The Minister, both former and current, is aware of all this. He also promised all of this, both past and present. And you can't live from the promise itself. We also had bad luck in this mandate in the area of health. We will support the marriage ourselves, even though it repairs a single pebble in a coloured mosaic of health care, it is only foregone conclusion. A more lasting solution would be if employers were subject to strict discipline in paying social contributions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u39	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Zares Group, Ms Majda Shirca Ravnikar will present her position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u40	Thank you. If I continue with my predecessor. Indeed, this novel solves one stone, one part of the problem, one stone, because when we talk about the rights and respect of the Constitution, we are talking about difficult issues and the necessity of correcting them only. It is true, however, that other approaches are also necessary, and already in the question of how to deal with this non-payment and the possibility of integrated care for children, there was more solution, including the one proposed by the Ombudsman, who in some ways speaks about universal and overall protection, or even about the automaticity of health insurance when talking about children. Indeed, the number of people who do not have at least one year of compulsory health insurance has been increasing recently since 2008, when we faced some 1,780 cases, by the following year, when there were 100 more and finally by the end of last year when there were 4860. They also have no official data on the causes, but it is true that more and more independent entrepreneurs are among the unprotected. And I believe that the issues of non-discipline of payment, or even the possibility of forgiveness of non-payment of contributions, as now contained in the law, are being resolved or abolished by the law introduced in the State Council, which deletes an article that allows the health insurance institution to cancel contributions to health insurance in certain cases. In short, it is a path that will try to remedy the existing situation. Undoubtedly, we are being cured of what everyone has recommended, what we ourselves know is that it is necessary to ensure that children do not share the fate of their parents or that they must always be fully protected and that children and adolescents must be provided with all health care, not only essential. As I say, as I said before, practice has shown those aids that ethically motivated health workers have helped but were illegal, have many times become in trouble, and we should not even allow this to be done in black, even if it is good, because if they have also accepted what is more than necessary medical care, they have already been difficult to write prescriptions. However, a stone, a stone, a change means that we respect our own, not only marital, constitutional obligations but that we properly take care of children and minors. The question of how to remedy other cases arising from the fact that contributions are not settled is that they are being resolved elsewhere, today on "horuk" it is promised by many who say that in the future, unless these contributions are paid, people will thus be erased from the register of this space or just expelled, and certainly very punished. Accessions can be different here, said and repeated again in the state world, one system already offers a certain solution and all those who take care of this especially for a healthy society will undoubtedly know how to find answers for everyone else, not just for children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u41	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party Group, Mr Jakob Presečnik will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u42	Thank you very much for the statement, Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues. The Slovenian People's Party's Parliamentary Group supports the proposal for a law that will allow for the full exercise of children's rights in the field of health. In addition to basic treatment, treatment should include other health care services, as well as compulsory health insurance health care, as well as the right to monetary benefits, irrespective of whether the contributions are paid by the employer or by the obligor under whom the children are insured. In this regard, we note that changes should not be directed only to children, stepchildren, brothers, sisters, and children without parents, but also to other immediate and extended family members, as referred to in article 20 as family members of an insured person living with an insured person in a common household. The Ministry of Health is a similar solution to what we already knew in the context of the preparation of health legislation based on a document on the upgrade of the health system by 2020. Members of the Slovenian People's Party Group would like to point out in the debate on this law that when looking for solutions, it is necessary to take into account the fact that a large part of the insurers referred to in Article 78, who are unable to pay their obligations, such as independent entrepreneurs, have not found themselves in trouble by their own fault. In most cases, they became victims of poor economic conditions, lost their jobs, and sought a solution to self-employment. They found themselves in a vicious circle, for sudden and solvable for them is not an easy situation to solve. Members of the SLS believe that the proposal for a second-reading law will be adopted, as it is also supported by the Association for the Rights of Sick Children, the Association for Civil Health, the Council of State and the Government. Members of the Slovenian People's Party's Group will support the solution to the problem of child protection in the light of the fact that there is one first and most urgent new parliamentary call, the rapid preparation and adoption of measures to stabilise the health treasury, as well as pension and social policy measures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u43	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Mag will present the position. Your Clavor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u44	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, honourable Members and Members. Although it was our desire at the beginning of this mandate to reach a new reform of the health system that we have unfortunately failed. We can see that there are many problems in this and perhaps this is a bitter taste today, just before the present, when we say goodbye and when we have to admit again that this has failed. I am therefore extremely pleased that at this last point, although just before the fruit, without any other taste, this point of the applicants should be adopted on the agenda. The proposal speaks of the most vulnerable group of the Slovenian population, about children. I don't think there will be any of us who won't support it. I will not repeat what this law brings, I will not talk about it, but it has been supported by the Committee on Health of our National Assembly, supported by the Government and unanimously supported by the DeSUS Group of Members. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u45	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Miran Györek will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u46	Thank you for saying so, Mr President, colleagues and colleagues. In the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group, we believe that the adoption of the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Health and Health Insurance Act is only about throwing sand in the eyes or sweetening it with pre-election candy and knocking on the conscience of the poorest and weakest voters. The aim of the legislator should be to systematically address irregularities and illogical misregulations rather than to violate the decaying system of complete anomalies and contradictions. If I return specifically to the bill, I can say the following: Even now, the Constitution and the legislation in force allow for the treatment that emergency care needs to be given to patients whether they are children or adults. All those who need such assistance are entitled to medical treatment whether they are insured or not. I therefore wonder what is the point of adopting a bill amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act, and what is the need for health care especially when we are talking about children? When it comes to health problems, I think that every visit of a child with scarecrows to a doctor is in some way a search for emergency medical attention. Parents don't go to a doctor with their children because they don't know what to do or they're bored. Kids aren't stimulants. And when we have to accept one such additional amendment of the law for children now, it seems to me that this is actually the pre-election intention of the proposer and that the proposer does not blame me, I don't mean anything in a bad way. First of all, we should consider what needs to be done in order to permanently eliminate inconsistencies in the non-conformity of contributions, how to recover outstanding contributions, or how to sharpen a payment discipline that is not, in fact, a discipline that is increasing every day. There is no way we can solve the problem only with cosmetic adjustments if we do not fully and consistently reach into a system that we must say is bad, if not very bad. I wonder why the system does not already comply with the provisions of the Constitution, which, as the highest legal act of the modern state, is intended to ensure, inter alia, the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms, which is certainly the right to health and social protection in the first place. The second paragraph of Article 50 of the Constitution states: The State regulates compulsory health, pension, disability and other social security and provides for their operation. The first paragraph of Article 51 of the Constitution states: Everyone has the right to health care. So, what laws do we have to make here? Why should Members still take the right to adopt additional laws if the Constitution allows us to do so? It may be necessary to consider what is wrong with our country, not to protect or execute what is enshrined in its basic charter, this is the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u47	Thank you very much. Mr Mag will present the position on behalf of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u48	Thank you, Mr. President. A friendly greeting to the Secretary of State. When a person cannot do everything in life, it is good to correct or at least do what is right. Of course, the health system is a wide story. A similar broad story is the pension system that we have touched, and we have not been successful. In this country, we need to be aware of the simple fact that we can share what we pay in pension and medical bills. However, children must be the last ones to feel financial embarrassment, both health care and other cashiers. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we agree with the reflection of the applicants. We were also one of the signatories. If it is the will of all to do the matter before the discharge, then of course it is not and it will not be the thanks of the applicants, not the thanks of the signatories, but the thanks of all of us who will press the button to adopt such a law. I am sure that, because it is a few hours before the vote, that we have this opportunity and the opportunity for a positive message for the benefit of the children all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u49	Thank you very much. On behalf of the unrelated Members, Mr Andrej Magajna will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u50	Respectable. Of course, in the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we will support the proposal for a law amending the law. We join all those who advocate essentially the principle of universal health and non-discriminatory treatment of children. If they had not done so, they would actually have a second category of children who would otherwise have received those basic health care, not what remained of the children. This non-discrimination is being eliminated, although, as the Secretary-General of the Ministry has already warned, we have not covered all the categories. Another note. For three years, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Labour has not resolved the issue of non-payments, which has long been regulated in many of our neighbouring countries and cannot do so at all. It is interesting that in three years this could not be settled, although we have already warned many about it here in Parliament for the first year. In many documents of client programmes, the principle of the universal health system has been put first or foremost, and we also have different interpretations of what this means, although there should not be so many interpretations. And it's also a contribution to this novel or a change to put an end to it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Before I give the floor to Mrs Andreja Črnak Meglič, who will present her position on behalf of the Social Democrats' Group, I am merely informing you that this time there is a direct vote and that there are no amendments. We will draw closer to the vote after this position. So, on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, the position will be presented by Dr Andrej Črnak Meglič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u52	Mr President, Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues, welcome. The existing health system in Slovenia, due to changed circumstances, and shortcomings in the functioning of the system, is urgently needed for renovations. This fact has been further exposed by the economic crisis, which has shown shortcomings affecting the exercise of health and health insurance benefits, particularly in the provision of child health care. In practice, children of insured persons who are not compensated by the employer for contributions to compulsory health insurance cannot obtain medical care unless in urgent cases. It is true, however, that the payment of health insurance contributions should not be avoided at the starting point, which is often a result of poor economic conditions in which individual insurers, in particular independent entrepreneurs, are not found guilty and therefore have limited access to health services by them and by family members who are insured by them. However, with the proposed amendment to the Health and Health Insurance Act, which we adopt after a reduced procedure, we cannot solve this problem, which would also have an unsuspecting financial impact, at least EUR 10 million. However, a comprehensive reform of the system has been written down, namely in the material already dealt with by the Government, the upgrade of the health system by 2020 prepared by the Ministry of Health. It sets out the legal solutions by which, in the event of the non-payment of the contribution by the beneficiaries, these entitlements to health services and compulsory health insurance benefits would be exercised by all family members of the insured person. We can only hope that such solutions will be recorded in the document adopted by the next government. We are of the opinion of the Social Democrats that legislation that violates children's rights under the Constitution must be amended without delay and that we have also signed a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Health and Health Insurance Act, which aims to enable the full exercise of children's health rights in the field of compulsory health insurance. The draft law provides that children are not denied the right to health care at a time when their family members do not have paid their dues. Our country has also committed itself to the protection of children's rights through the adoption of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, on the basis of which we must all strive to ensure that children have the highest attainable level of health and services provided by the health system. Why do the Social Democrats feel that the proposed amendment should be adopted in addition? First of all, children cannot influence the fulfilment of the statutory obligations of employers, even though they are their parents under whom they are insured. Second, children do not have the possibility of insurance as a specific category of beneficiaries. Thirdly, it is also necessary to mention unequal access to the health of children or to health services provided by existing legislation. Some children, already under the existing law, have access to all health services, regardless of the payment of the contribution, provided that they are educated, while others, today, we are not talking about them. Social Democrats are convinced that regardless of the upcoming comprehensive legal changes in healthcare and health insurance, children's rights must be addressed without delay. The high support for the proposed amendments to the law was also demonstrated when the material was examined by the Health Committee, through which we adopted amendments to improve the content of the proposed provisions. It seems that no one will oppose the proposed law, which can only please us. We all agree that our children are our future and only by caring for their health can we expect them to develop and realize their potential. Therefore, as has already been said, we also promise our support for the law to the Social Democrats. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u53	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since the amendments to the amended draft law have not been tabled, I conclude the second reading of the draft law in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill, which is to decide on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Please check the functioning of your voting devices before the vote. We're voting. 61 Members and Members are present. 61 votes against no one. [[61 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We're moving to 3. It's a point of the day -- it's on mentally loving matters. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint the Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency by means of a proposal for a decision. The proposal was tabled by the Government. The proposal was considered by the Mandate-Electorial Commission as the parent working body, which informed the assembly in writing and submitted a proposal for a decision. Following the presentation, you're standing by the parliamentary groups. Mr. Barovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u54	Dear Mr President, if you have already enforced the consideration of all these points, we have before us the proposal of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to appoint a director. I just didn't have time to read all that crowd we had to read this, but don't you think it's worth telling us and showing us that this is the government's proposal? I don't know. I'm asking. If this is a government proposal, if my proposal were to be said, my proposal is for it and for it. I request or make a procedural proposal on behalf of the Slovenian National Party to request government representatives to come forward and present their proposal. Please put a procedural motion to the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u55	Mr Bogdan Barovic, or you suggest that we vote on this in accordance with the second paragraph of Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u56	Dear Mr President, as you will say, you are a better acquaintance at this time, I must say, you have led very well, even though you have had a hundred days not even peace, but labor and if you have said so, then so.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u57	I understand that we are putting to the vote a procedural proposal to provide an additional explanation to this proposal by the representative of the Government or the proposer. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present. 24 votes in favour and 33 votes in favour, or Member of Parliament. [[The vote was 24.]] [[Against 33.]] The proposal is not accepted. We continue and give the floor to the representatives of the groups of Members. I give the floor to Mr Jakob Preseknik to present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. He's quitting. I give the floor to Mr Ivan Grill to present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u58	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President. We are also protesting in the Slovenian Democratic Party that the Government did not wish or did not wish to present this proposal, as there was no government representative at today's urgent meeting of the Mandate-Electorial Commission where further clarifications could be given on the proposed candidate. This shows something that has obviously not yet happened in Slovenia but is now becoming a practice before the end of the mandate. Just a few hours will separate us when the President of the Republic will disband the National Assembly and just a few hours before the National Assembly in this composition will be disbanded by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and its coalition of formal and informal personnel to the key positions. You want to use the final hours of your commitment to place people in the responsible positions of your mind. In doing so, you do not take into account that such behaviour is unhygienic, that it is contrary to democratic principles and what is most worrying is also contrary to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which was voted on 20 September, has lost its powers by the Constitution and by law and should manage only ongoing transactions. During the current course of business, it certainly does not include the recruitment of key positions. Unfortunately, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not respect its limited powers and violates the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, while in the coalition, both formal and informal, you help it. Similar things are happening today when the Director of the Agency for Insurance and Control is confirmed. Although the Government no longer has powers, it has appointed a new person to this position and sent this proposal to the National Assembly for confirmation. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have proposed that this process be put to the decision of the next Government and that our proposal on the part of the coalition be rejected. With this, the ruling coalition assumes full responsibility if the confirmation of Mr Simoniti is to be experienced in the event of a complaint before the Court of Justice. This could leave him an ungrateful mark in his future career and, of course, he himself would not be to blame. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not define ourselves to his professional competences, but we strongly oppose such a mode of recruitment just a few hours before discharge. We will not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party, and we propose that you do so in other parliamentary groups. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u59	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, if I ask you kindly in the right attitude towards the one who represents the position that will give us a little more attention. Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word is "ma'am mag." Melita Zupevec. He's quitting. Mr. Matjaz Han? He's quitting. Mr. Bojan Kontic?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u60	Thank you very much. I've been thinking about quitting myself, but when I'm listening to arguments about why I should reject the government's proposal, of course, I have to take a call. Now, the additional arguments of the Government, which should be supported by this proposal, would certainly not rest with those who voted against the Commission's mandate and those who would vote against the Council of State. However, let me say that there were in fact no additional requirements for additional arguments on the Commission's term of office, perhaps because there was no representative of the Government, but I must say that the meeting of the Commission was held in such a way that we had a regular meeting at first, and after the regular meeting at which we considered this proposal. The government and the competent minister with the co-workers are very difficult to plan work in this case, and so it has been this time. It's not about evading, we have a secretary of state here between us now, but the real calls for further arguments have not been made, although they have not been taken into account, we know that. But when someone says they won't support the candidacy for protecting the candidate then it sounds like I won't use the term. Because, in fact, the candidate is a good candidate, we have nothing against the candidate, because it is proposed by the Government, which is carrying out the current business and because it is the conclusion of the mandate, it is inappropriate to confirm this candidate. This, of course, is not a valid argument; the correct argument would be disagreement with the candidate because it does not meet the professional criteria or anything similar. And to place it in mental frameworks or within any framework is already inappropriate for a candidate that you want to protect in some way at the same time. The appointment procedure takes some time and does not begin when you specify, but the procedure is ongoing. We have come into a situation where it is necessary to decide at a meeting of the National Assembly. The National Assembly has full powers and is functioning normally, making decisions, on the contrary, it is obliged to take decisions, even those on time, that is what needs to be done, and these are our powers, which we must actually exercise. This is now at the end of the mandate, at the beginning of the mandate, in the middle of the mandate, it is not important at all. It is important that this is when it is in accordance with the legislation which prescribes mandates. This is similar, respected colleagues and colleagues, as if they said that the goal in football in the extension is not valid. And that's how it works. And sometimes he takes all three points. And that's the way it is when we vote in the National Assembly. As long as the National Assembly has a mandate, we must carry out this mandate whether we like it or not. We are obliged to do so, the Mandate-Election Commission has drawn up a proposal and the National Assembly has to decide on this proposal, given that it is an extended meeting, with this item on the agenda. I will certainly support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u62	Thank you very much. The previous show came out, we're [[?]] debtors, according to homework sometimes say "mus" is just to die. But if circumstances are strange, it is better to ask and sometimes to stop. In fact, when I look at this proposal from the government, I find that the invitation to tender was 10. 6. 2011 and that the insurance control agencies are 31. 8. 2011 carried out the process of identification of competence, last test. And that's when you did those procedures. The proposal comes to the table last minute before 12. In fact, I have to say, he's probably a victim. That you didn't want to confirm it in the National Assembly in regular time and normal times, but now that your system has collapsed, when we have experienced the implosion of this left-wing system, you're giving it forward because it's a less bad solution than what you've probably planned and tacted. This call would probably be cancelled if your mandate were to continue. And look, the insurance agency's got a bigger weight. The insurance companies are in some way connected to the banking system, and both systems are not healthy. We have had a lot of irregularities in insurance in the past, an affair that has been suppressed, because insurance companies are well-standing companies because they pay constant risks and that is why some insurance bosses are big bosses. And the country didn't have what insurance companies were supposed to have. Look, now that it's said that the former director of the Mutual, Mr. Marko Jaklič, we know what the affairs were there, what the will be, with that money is probably this black construction, I don't know how many millions of euros it will be worth, and then Janković put it on Lekarne Ljubljana, where he was preparing the black privatisation again, and now we hear that he would be in the Janković ministerial team, the troublesome people themselves, would have them as ministers, and you would quietly, quietly look and approve and until such things are cleared up and until there are so many problems in insurance, but problems in the sense of working under the table, to separate state money, to hear a whole bunch of things about the Triglav insurance company and the Director's aspirations, which he has practically already hit the Klemenč rail lines, according to our information, we need to have a good chance to have, but have a chance to think about it. I don't know who the candidate is either, I see that he was already at his first job when he left, he was already the Director of the Legal Service, so he probably had good connections from this point of view, but in this way the responsible places and in such a state in the insurance companies cannot be perfected. Make sure of that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u63	Thank you very much. I give my word to Mr Dusan Kumr. She's canceling, thank you very much. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision appointing Sergei Simoniti as Director of the Insurance Supervisory Agency. The position shall take place from 1.1.2012. Explanations to the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I shall then open an application for explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Rudolf Petan will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u64	Thank you for your word, Mr President, Your Honor. So, our opinion is as it has already been announced, so we think that this point is not suitable for consideration, but if you forced it, then we will not support it and, of course, we will not support it. However, I would like to say here that thinking that if a candidate meets all the formal conditions, including the professional conditions that he must vote then, of course, it is not so simple, that another question is asked here. Is he a proponent, this is called the Government, but does he have all the professional qualifications to propose such a proposal at all? This is not a proposal for running a pastry shop, this is a proposal for the management of insurance supervision and this is the first supervisor in the field of insurance and insurance companies are part of the financial system, but the financial system in Slovenia is currently in a situation such as it has never been far from finding such a comparison. Of course, some are worse, but it is not good to compare with others. And the fact is, this government only does current business and why I said earlier that if the government has all the expertise to suggest it, because even the government doesn't know what the current business is, that's the problem. So if they don't even know what the current business is, how can they then propose such an important function for six years. No one here today talked about the name, no one, and I don't think, not by any chance. However, these are other things that are more important and the Government does not currently have all the professional qualifications and grounds to propose such an important staff proposal and it is very frightening how the Government currently employs long and medium-term staff and sets out why it is not necessary that it does not know, nor does it itself know if it therefore has all the appropriate qualifications, given that it has limited opportunities for substantive work and that it does not even know whether it must come to Parliament or not. Now, in this case, we have a representative of the government, that's true, but at other points, and also at the point when the government answered Members' questions, it was such a bad occupation, so we got the feeling that the government really doesn't know whether it has to come to parliament or not. And, therefore, it is very irresponsible that it comes with such a proposal at this time to Parliament. We will, of course, oppose such a proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u65	She's very pretty. We have completed our explanations of vote on behalf of the Group of Members. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? He doesn't want to. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 42 votes against 1. [[The vote was 42.]] [[Against 1]] I understand that the decision has been taken. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Board of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zmago Jelinčič Trimeniti has the floor on behalf of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u66	Good evening. Today we will vote on one matter, which is called government intervention and extension, which is very questionable if I say gently. Other candidates are fine, but I am not doing well and I am not going to the Slovenian National Party to account that the candidate is under the number thirteen of Dr. Gregor Jurak. In fact, there is some information about this gentleman; by the Ljubljana Police Administration, the criminal police sector of 12. 6. In 2009, he filed an appeal against Gregor Jurak for a criminal offence of abuse of a criminal position under the fourth and third paragraphs of Article 261 of the Penal Code. However, it was no big deal, Mr Minister for Education and Sport, that he proposed and proposed it further. Secondly, by the sport of the competent ministry, warnings were sent to the National Assembly by this Ministry about the illegal conduct of the then Director Gregor Jurak and the illegal payments for his work to his personal company, the illegal conduct of that Director and the illegal payment of prizes. The Anti-Corruption Commission found illegal payments for his work at the expense of his company by the Sport Foundation where he was the director. The Court of Auditors found illegal payments of awards for his work. Entrepreneurship carried out by Mr. through the Sport, Child and Youth Union with activities in the Faculty of Sport is also without legal basis where he was employed here was also covered. And yet, Mr Lukšič considers that this gentleman is suitable and has proposed him to the positions of the professional council of the Government of Slovenia for sport, for one of the three candidates. One wonders what the Ministry of Education is up to. Do we really have to push our friends everywhere? Do those for whom it does not matter whether they are accused, convicted in court and so on - these people will quietly continue their strange work. Of course, Mr Luksic is behind this. Despite the fact that the Ministry has been warned several times, both by the Anti-Corruption Commission, by the Court of Auditors, by the Sports Foundation, by the Police Administration, Mr Lukšič stands behind this man and does not matter what he does, the main thing is that he is "our". And the main thing is to get him to this job at the last minute. I am almost sure that the coalition will, of course, vote in favour of this "his" candidate and support him, but I think it will have to be triggered - I hope that some other stability will lead the country so that the pigs will no longer be possible. In order for those coalition gentlemen who have supported various frauds to be punished and called to account, these should be former ministers or former Members or something like that. I don't think we can support something like this. The fact is that he is voting in the set for everything together, and that is exactly what Mr Lukšič meant - to say in this set, well, yes, because others are fine, it will be somehow. It won't be any more! Because it's been said for three years, somehow, the state is in that state. And that's why at least now we can't confirm it. We will vote against it in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u67	Thank you. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we will vote as always, each in accordance with our conscience and conviction. But the fact is, there's quite a few thoughts on this scale. On the one hand, we received several calls from citizens, some mayors from various political options, that the Sports Foundation share important resources and that it would not be right if the procedures to be launched and signed towards the end of the year were not completed at the beginning of the year, because many investments are needed for funding, in various Slovenian municipalities waiting for the necessary co-investors. On the other hand, when we talk about candidates, names and procedures, it would certainly be better if we decided on each candidate as an individual, in particular. We are also convinced that the Slovenian sports scene overcomes a large number of different names and that any candidate who storms and disturbs could be replaced by a number of sports workers who know the area and have earned it in the past. I would also like to point out that, as far as Slovenian sport is concerned, we must see that all organisations and all spheres are represented. From the field of sport and recreation of all citizens and citizens, we may also have overlooked the so-called Sport Union of Slovenia. The Sports Union brings together 75,000 recreational animals and recreational animals. We also run a number of projects aimed at young people, the youngest, bringing together sport of all generations. And it is important to consider why, for example, such an organization as the Sport Union, which is overrun by large membership, does not have a representative. Simply, the dilemma is quite something, and we will, as always, take a decision each with our own view of problems and things. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u69	Thank you very much. Mr Ivan Grill will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u70	Thank you again very much for your word. Also, this item on the agenda, when you appoint a new membership of the Sports Foundation Council, you have demonstrated in the coalition that you want to put your people in positions of responsibility in the last days before the dissolution of the National Assembly. There is no need for a new composition of the Sports Foundation Council to be set up just before the end of the mandate of the Government and the National Assembly. In the National Assembly we received a notice from the Sports Foundation that there were 11. 10. In the existing composition, the urgently needed work has been carried out from calls to the adoption of the financial plan, which ensures that all things are carried out in advance. Any justification that a new composition should be adopted in order for the work to take place immediately is not justified. This membership, which is today being adopted, proposed by the Government a person who is morally more than controversial. This is Mr Jurak, for whom the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption has identified elements of corruption in its opinion. The Court of Auditors also found irregularities. Mr Jurak, when he was the director of the Sports Foundation, paid more than 10,000 euros illegally to his company. And after the investigation, the police also filed an indictment with the D.A. On the basis of its competence, however, the Prosecutor rejected the complaint on the grounds that there was no intention to do so. Whether such rejection of an accusation is proud of the rule of law should be judged by each individual. As a mockery of all these findings, Mr Jurak was once again proposed by the Government and Mr Luksic in a new proposal for the Sport Foundation Council. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we strongly protest such proposals and we will vote against them. As I have already said, once again, let us draw attention to the fact that the existing composition of the Council has all the necessary powers to carry out its function forward and there are no valid reasons to rush into the appointment of a new composition of the Council, because everything that needs to be done in this area can be done by the existing Council. It would be hygienic to re-evaluate those candidates who are fit for this position and decide on it in the next assembly of the National Assembly. One more time. We will not support this proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u71	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, Mr Jakob Preseknik has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u72	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Once again, everyone, welcome. Given that I am firmly convinced, and in the Group of Members, that no shadow of any appointment or group of candidates or individuals should fall on any of the appointments, we will therefore vote against this proposal. And another reason is that our belief is that it is the appointment of members of the Council of the Foundation for some kind of usurpation of certain institutions in the field of sport in the appointment or in these appointment procedures. Because of this, as I said in the introduction, we will vote against this proposal in the Group of Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u73	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members. The word has magic. Melita Zupevc - she won't discuss it. Mr Matjaž Han - will not discuss. Mr. Bojan Kontic - he won't discuss it. Mr. Ivan Grill - he won't discuss it. Mag. Borut Saiovic - he won't discuss it. Dusan Kumer - he won't discuss it. I conclude the debate and move on to a decision on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. What group wants to explain its voice? Procedurally, please, Mr. Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u74	Thank you very much for your words, Mr Vice President. In view of the fact that we voted by name on each candidate on the Mandate-Electorial Commission, I would suggest that the National Assembly, today or now, in this vote, also decides on each candidate individually and not in the package. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u75	Mr. Grill, I would like to remind you that we have a proposal that has been submitted to us by the Mandate-Volution Commission. This proposal contains a decision appointing the members of the Board of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. Only this proposal can we vote on, on the other, but we can, of course, vote against it and then possibly force another decision, only we have one and only we can vote on it. Does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? I am applying for explanations of vote on behalf of the parliamentary group, please sign in. Mr Bogdan Barovic on behalf of the SNS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u76	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Otherwise, Mr Victory Jelinčič told us what our position is, but it does not seem right to us, and these are your words from yesterday, not yours, but your political options that because of some of the facts for one of the members and these facts are facts, they are not supposed to be, we must vote in a package and therefore exclude some others who are probably already entitled to become a member of this foundation. That's the first time. That is why it is difficult for us to vote against everything now. And secondly, given that we have a large constitution and a small constitution called the Rules of Procedure, I would be very happy, but this is not a burden on you now, but how can it be that the Commission decides in one way, so on each and today all together. Are we really out of the woods already, or what? If the Commission voted on each individual, it would be fair for us to vote on each other today, or this is as if the Commission voted on all of them together, but today we would be asked to vote on each one individually, or it would be a proposal to vote on each one individually. The simple logic that I, I'm sorry, I really don't understand. The decision on the Commission is equivalent, but if we rejected it on the Commission, but today, as we should not have at point 1, on the Transport Act, we could have said our own, but the Commission rejected, goodbye, and if the Commission had said no, no matter how, today we should not have decided again, so that these things are, excuse me, a little strange, Mr President, I would not want to discredit 5, 6, 7 people for one reason, I am not suggesting, but for one person whose data are facts. You have to understand me, Mr Vice-President, I do not want to interfere, but the Slovenian National Party will, if you introduce a group vote like this, say no and fail, if such will is to be done, the system of all people, among whom I believe that they are very capable and desirable in this foundation, so it does not seem fair to me that the Commission is voting individually, we are voting for everything together. Here, even if you don't want to think about something strange happening, and that's why I apologize to all those who we think would be good candidates, but to thank those who have made such a suggestion that because of some facts about one person, we will reject everything. At least as far as the Slovenian National Party is concerned. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u77	Thank you very much, Mr Barovic, I can't help but repeat the decision that follows business solutions. The proposal is a day and we must vote on the proposal, we do not have the opportunity to change the proposal ourselves. Mr. Grill, please. Procedural, or explanation? Explanation on behalf of the Group of Members, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u78	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u79	In my own name. Just one moment, does anyone else want to explain their vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? No, no, no. Mr. Grill, please, in your personal name.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u80	Thank you very much. See, I will vote against such a proposal for two reasons, for the first time, because in this package there is also Mr Jurak, whose documents show that he is more than morally controversial and another reason, which is equally justified, is this letter, which we received from the Sports Foundation in the National Assembly, where we were informed that the Sports Foundation is an existing one that manages all functions, so writes, we carry out all of the legal acts of a given task. At its regular meeting on 11 October 2011, the Foundation Council adopted a financial plan, a work plan and a call for a fund-raising fund for 2012. He also appointed appropriate working bodies and commissions to take care of the implementation of all publications and public procurement tasks. The opening, evaluation and analysis of applications is expected to take place by 20. 12. 2011 their financial evaluation by allocating funds will be carried out by 5. 2. 2012. This means that there is no need to call today the new composition of the Sports Foundation or the World Sports Foundation, especially since it is more than a moral challenger. Therefore, as I have said, I will not support this proposal alone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-10-20-SDZ5-Izredna-49.ana.u81	Thank you very much. Anyone else want to explain their voice in their personal name? I do not therefore wish to conclude the debate and explanation of vote and to vote on the proposal for a decision on the appointment of members of the Council of the Foundation for the Financing of Sports Organisations in the Republic of Slovenia. We're voting. There are 61 Members and Members present, 31 votes in favour, 22 against. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. And I am going over this point C. - this is a proposal for a decision to amend the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to establish political responsibility due to the suspicion of involvement in the financing of disputed management acquisitions and the lack of takeover legislation. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. We are therefore not taking a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 57 Members and Members present, 52 of whom voted in favour, against no one. [[The vote was 52.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposal for a decision has been adopted. We are moving to point C - this is to the Proposal for a Decision amending and supplementing the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to establish political responsibility in the preparation and implementation of construction investments in the area of the construction of motorways and economic infrastructures financed by the State budget. The proposal for a decision was submitted by a mandate-holder committee for consideration by the assembly. We are therefore not moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending and supplementing the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There were 60 votes in favour and 53 votes against. [[The vote was 53.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted. We are moving to point D - this is to consider the proposal for a Decision amending the Decision on the composition and appointment of the President, Vice-President and members and alternates of members of the Commission of Inquiry to establish political responsibility in the preparation and implementation of certain projects of the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Housing Fund of the Republic of Slovenia, the University of Primorska and public health facilities financed from the State or budget of the Municipality of Ljubljana. There are no applicants for the debate, so we are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 48 Members and Members present, 45 votes against. [[The vote was 45.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the core. We are moving on to the consideration of the proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of the Commission of Inquiry to determine the political responsibility of the holders of public functions in the Patrio case. The proposal for a decision was forwarded to the Council by the Mandate-Electorial Commission. There are no applications for discussion. We are moving on to a decision on a proposal for a decision amending the decision on the composition and appointment of the President, the Vice-President and the members and alternate members of that Commission of Inquiry. We're voting. There are 60 Members and Members present, 54 votes against none. [[54 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I note that the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly. I'm closing this agenda item. Dear fellow Members, distinguished fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen. Today's 49th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly is probably the last session of the fifth session before the elections and before the constitution of the newly elected National Assembly. So let me say a few words of thanks on this occasion. Much work has been done in this mandate, which has not always been easy. The expiry of the mandate was marked by a wide range of work and decisions and, to the greatest extent, by the global, financial, economic crisis and the search for and finding a way out of the global, financial and economic crisis. It was also marked by the 20th anniversary of a number of events that had a significant impact on the development and progress of Slovenia's independence process and the development of Slovenian parliamentary democracy and allowed us to grow from nation to nation. For a short time, I took over the leadership of the National Assembly from the successful predecessor of Dr. Paul Gantar during an extremely lively period marked by a restless political atmosphere and troubled and tense economic circumstances. Nevertheless, all the time I have tried to carry out my entrusted function faithfully, responsible to the best of my ability, and always as the first of the same. I am sure that my work without your support and without the support of my colleagues and colleagues in the National Assembly would be significantly more difficult. Therefore, allow me to express my warm and sincere thanks to all my fellow Members, my fellow Members, the Vice-Presidents of the National Assembly, the representatives and representatives of the Government, the Secretary-General of the National Assembly, all my co-workers and members of the services of the National Assembly, all the institutions and individuals, including civil society, as well as the representatives and representatives of the media. I wish you all well and to remain friends and forget about some, sometimes even a harsher or more unkind word. I hereby conclude the 49th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. Happy and happy, wherever our next life course leads. My colleagues and colleagues, at the end of the 5th term of the National Assembly, I invite all Members and Members to take group photos. I invite you to gather in a circle around the pay phone as the photo shoot will take place from the balcony. Let this photograph be a good memory of the work done and spend time in the National Assembly. All those who monitor our work, either with a camera, camera or keyboard, thank you very much. [[Let's hear it.]]
