ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 57, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I am informed that today's meetings cannot be attended by the following Members: Alenka Jeraj, Marian Križman by 3 p.m., Roberto Battelli, mag. Stefan Tisel, Joško Godec, Franz Pukšič and Dr. Vinko Gorenak. I invited the President of the Government to agenda items 1 and 28, Minister and Ministers, on agenda item 1, Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, and Minister for the Environment on agenda item 29, representative of the Council on agenda item 31, and representatives of the Government on all agenda items. I welcome everyone here. We are moving on to the agenda of the 25th meeting of the National Assembly. You have received the draft agenda by reference to the 21st meeting. 2. 2011. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals to withdraw the item from the agenda or to extend the agenda. The College of the President of the National Assembly shall be held at its 94th meeting, on 21. 2. 2011 concluded that the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, EPA-1615/5, should be considered in accordance with the urgency procedure. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the National Assembly to decide on that decision by the College. On the basis of the third paragraph of Article 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, we are moving to the examination of the requirement of 27 Members and Members that the National Assembly decide on a decision by the College of the President of the National Assembly to consider the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Capital Investment Management Act, EPA-1615/5, following an urgent procedure. I give the floor to the representative of the proposers to request Zvonko Černač to present his position. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u2	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u3	For the pay phone, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u4	Dear colleagues and colleagues! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we object to the urgent procedure for considering the amendment to the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia or to the Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. There are several reasons for saying that this novel should be dealt with on a regular basis. One of the essentials is that there is no minor amendment to this law, but that there is a fundamental change, particularly in Article 11, which significantly reduces the competence of the recently established agency in 11 indents. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we objected to the adoption of this law because we have estimated that it is another para-national institution that will not justify its existence. At that time, the ruling coalition justified the necessity of adopting this law with the OECD recommendations. After a good half year, despite these recommendations, the OECD changes in its substantive work, and following an urgent procedure, the Agency is taking on an essential part of its competences, one of the capital investments or capital investments that will not be managed through the Agency, including capital investments in companies operating in the public service of the system operator in the field of electricity and gas transmission and distribution in the Republic of Slovenia. It is more than obvious that it is not an expert one, but it is some other prestigious political reason that substantiates this novelty by emergency procedure. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we cannot agree with such an approach, we propose that this amendment be considered on a regular basis, that the changes envisaged be re-examined and debated, and that if the Agency has already been established, it finally begin to carry out its tasks and mission. We have recently discussed decisions in the National Assembly at the Public Finance Supervisory Commission that the Agency should take urgent and rapid action in individual management cases, where it has been established that Dars or his administration and the Supervisory Board do not act in the spirit of a good master, that they do not act in good public tax means, that individual decisions taken at the level of the Supervisory Board and the administration of Dars are detrimental to public funds and to the implementation of the programme adopted in the Republic of Slovenia, and that these findings have also been supported by certain independent institutions, including by the Court of Auditors, that the Administration has acted in some way contrary to the recommendations of the competent Minister for Transport when, in addition to those powers, it has safeguarded its own liability for errors which it could have been able to make, that basis should not have happened. The management of the capital investment management agency has not acted, should act and ensure the cost-effectiveness of the management of public funds. The new law that we have on the table today speaks of the fact that this agency will significantly be deprived of the power of administration, which means that one good part of capital investment management will again be under the influence of these or those ministries, in contrast to what was justified in the adoption of this law six months ago. At a time when, in the opinion of the Government and the ruling coalition, the adoption of a law within the meaning of the OECD recommendations for our entry into this membership had to be adopted, one law had to be adopted, now after a good half year the law is being substantially amended and supplemented in this essential point, which once again allows non-transparent management. All of these are reasons for saying that this change needs to be carefully reconsidered, if not even rejected, and therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we propose that this amendment be considered in a regular procedure in order to change, but that it cannot be accepted or rejected in the content we now have on the table. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u5	Thank you very much. There is no discussion and no explanation for this request. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. I propose to the assembly that it decide on the following decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia shall be considered on an urgent basis. If no decision is taken, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on a regular basis. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 41 votes against 29. [[The vote was 41.]] [[Against 29.]] I note that the decision has been adopted and that the assembly will therefore consider that proposal in accordance with the urgency procedure under the envisaged 4th item of the agenda. The College of Presidents of the National Assembly shall meet at the same meeting. 2. In 2011 it decided that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law reshaping the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and the Investment Policy of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and the Slovenian Compensation Society, EPA 1616-V, should be considered on a regular basis. On the basis of Article 21, paragraph 10, of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, the Group of 35 Members and Members, with the first-signed Dušan Kumro, requested the National Assembly to decide on the above-mentioned decision of the College of the President of the National Assembly. The request shall be placed on the agenda of the first next meeting of the assembly without discussion and vote. The meeting will therefore consider that requirement in accordance with the meeting's timetable as 1.A item of the agenda today, following the establishment of the agenda. We are now moving on to a full agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 66 votes against 2. [[66 votes in favour.]] [[Against two.]] I take it the agenda of the 25th meeting of the assembly has been set. We move on to the 1st item of the agenda, which is to respond to the demands of the group of Members, to the decision of the President of the Presidency of the State to propose a law on amendments and amendments to the law on the reshaping of the capitalist and invalidity insurance companies and on the investment policy of the capitalist and invalidity companies, following the ordinary procedure. The College of the President of the National Assembly is at its 94th session. 2. In 2011 it decided that the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law reshaping the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and the Investment Policy of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and the Slovenian Indemnity Company, EPA 1616-V, submitted by the Government following an urgent procedure, should be considered on a regular basis. Within the time limit of business, a group of 35 Members and Members, with Dusan Kumro, requested, pursuant to Article 21, paragraph 10 of the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly, that the National Assembly decide on the above-mentioned decision by the College of the President of the National Assembly. There is no discussion and no explanation for this request. I propose to the Assembly that it decide on the following decision: a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law recasting the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and the Investment Policy of the Capital Insurance and Disability Insurance Company and the Slovenian Compensation Society shall be considered on a regular basis. If the decision is not adopted, the National Assembly will consider the draft law on an urgent basis. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 41. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 41.]] I note that the assembly will deal with the proposal of the law as a matter of urgency. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I am adjourning the meeting of the assembly, which will be resumed at 3 p.m. at 1 p.m., with questions from Members and Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u6	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We're moving on to one. PERIOD OF THE DAY — QUESTIONS FROM MESSAGES AND MESSAGES. Mr. Zanoskar, you want procedural? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u7	Thank you. Honourable President, Honourable President of the Government, Minister and Ministers! Allow me to make a procedural proposal on behalf of the DeSUS Group on the basis of the first paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly. We suggest that the two points of the 25th meeting of the National Assembly be replaced, with paragraphs 17 and 10. The 17th point is, according to the programme tomorrow as the first, to talk about amendments and additions to the Company Act and the 10th point is the Law on Promoting coherent regional development. We are aware from the information that the Law on the Promotion of Coherent Regional Development is particularly important for less developed regions and is of great importance to all these regions every day acquired by the adoption of this Act. We therefore propose replacing these two points, i.e. points 17 and 10. You probably remember that we tried to get the third reading of this law through two previous extraordinary sessions, but that didn't work, so we're trying today. Our proposal is to switch paragraphs 17 and 10 of the agenda. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u8	Thank you very much. The proposal was submitted in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 65 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. I shall put to the vote the following decision: The order of the hearing of matters at the 25th meeting of the National Assembly shall be amended by Tuesday, 1. 3. 2011, at 10 a.m. deals with 10 a.m., Monday, 7. 3. This appropriation is intended to cover expenditure relating to the general budget of the Union and to the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the Union and the general budget of the I would like to remind you that the decision will be taken if one third of the Members present do not oppose it. We're voting. There are 63 Members and Members present, with 40 votes against 22. [[The vote was 40.]] [[Against 22.]] I note that the decision is not adopted and therefore remains the agenda as received by reference to the meeting. We continue with the first item on the agenda, questions raised by Members and Members. With regard to this item on the agenda, I have received written applications for 36 questions from the Member States within the time limit. The order of business shall be laid down on the basis of an agreement with the Heads of the groups of Members and in accordance with Article 244 and Article 245(2) of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. The first three questions raised by members of the opposition and the Member of the ruling coalition's question to the Member of Parliament will be answered by the Prime Minister of the Government. Each Member shall have three minutes to ask the question. The President of the Government, ministers and ministers shall answer the question within a maximum of five minutes. If the question is raised by several ministers, all together have five minutes to answer. A Member who is not satisfied with the answer may request a supplement to the answer, but does not have to ask an additional question. Members and Members of Parliament, please pay attention to this. An explanation of the request to complete the reply shall be given by the Member within two minutes and the reply may be completed for a maximum period of three minutes. The Member who asks a question may request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister. This shall be decided by the National Assembly without discussion. In the event that the Member does not receive an answer to the question put by the Member today, the President of the Government, the Minister or the Minister must provide him with a written reply within 30 days. A Member who asks a question which has not been answered may declare that he remains in the oral reply. In this case, I will place the question at the next regular meeting of the National Assembly. On this point, the following ministers and ministers apologized for today: Samuel Žbogar, Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mag. Darja Radic, Minister of Economy, and Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior. You have received a review of the questions sent to you, which were not answered within the deadline of business. We are moving on to the question of the Member States. The first four questions will be answered by Prime Minister Borut Pahor. The question of emissary will first be posed by the Magi. Andrej Vizjak, Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please, mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u9	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! Allow me to mention in the introduction 10 key problems in the economic, financial and social sphere, which are facing our economy and therefore have an increasingly difficult impact on the living and functioning conditions of people and businesses in Slovenia. First time. The decline in the competitiveness of the economy. The Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development recently announced that Slovenia has stagnated or deteriorated after all international comparisons of the competitiveness of the economy, according to the latest data. The most radical was the Swiss Institute of IMD, which in 2010 saw a decline in the competitiveness of the Republic of Slovenia in 20 cities, in 52nd place, the biggest decline among 58 countries surveyed. Another time. The indicator of the economic climate. As of August 2008, we were in the European Union in the fourth place following this indicator, last September at the 18th, which is the biggest drop in the European Union. Third time. The cost of work is rising. Labour costs increased by 2.2% in 2009 in the European Union and 4.5% in the Republic of Slovenia, the fourth largest growth in the European Union. Fourth time. Late payment. Uncollected liabilities are increasing, uncollected liabilities and the number of legal persons with mature uncollected liabilities increased by three times between 2008 and 2010. Fifth. The number of bankruptcys is increasing. From 2008 to 2010, the number of bankruptcys more than doubled. Six. The fall of gross domestic product. In the longer term, by 2008, we had reached the average of the European Union with our home product and reached 91% in 2008. In 2009, we fell to 86% of the average, and we're still falling. It's a week. There's a drop in investment. In 2009 and 2010, construction investments and investments in equipment fell more than twice according to the euro area. Eight. State budget deficit. In 2009 and 2010, we spent or will spend 20% more than we created. Nine. Increases in public debt, increases in guarantees. Since 2008, when the public debt amounted to 32% of gross domestic product in the Republic of Slovenia, it is now 58.3% of gross domestic product. Ten years. It's the most painful growing unemployment. You doubled the number of unemployed, the trend in the European Union was positive last year, it was shrinking, and we are still growing. In addition to the introduction of these ten key problems, the honourable President of the Government is also plagued by the injustices that are taking place in this country. As Prime Minister, do you feel responsible for the situation? These comparisons are relative, so despite the crisis, everyone has gone backwards in the European Union and we are far from the most. So do you, as Prime Minister, feel [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u10	Thank you very much. The President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u11	I feel responsible for solving the problems that I, as Prime Minister of the Government, together with a team of ministers and ministers, caught in December 2008. In many ways we have succeeded, and in some ambitions we have not. First and foremost, it was an important decision, we secured our stability and peace, we settled relations with the southern neighbour and prevented any social problems in the Western Balkans from clapping as a national problem and endangering it, and that is now another thing, our full focus on economic and social problems. Member of Parliament, you have been a minister in the previous government and in 2008 you could see from quarter to quarter that economic growth is falling, but I cannot say that the previous government, and it is not guilty of the economic crisis of these dimensions, has acted in the spirit of these insights. We have taken responsibility for leading the government just before the beginning of 2009 and have adopted a package of measures to help the economy immediately. In 2010, we adopted structural reforms and, as you rightly note, because competitiveness has fallen, even so that our people have not felt the social crisis, as if the Slovenian government had not secured its economic and social policies, we have now decided to go into a package of measures to improve competitiveness. No offense, it is not true that Slovenia is the biggest problem among all. I want to tell you something – I hope that we will not only understand it here in a narrow political circle, but that our people will also understand it – I think we are giving the wrong signal from ourselves if we say that Slovenia is actually sinking. That's not true! Slovenia has the power to emerge from the crisis, and that is what is happening. Let us not merely give information that causes people to become discouraged and anxious. Of course they are. Always. May we also give those who show that we are recovering! After 2009, when the rate of economic growth fell by 9%, we note positive economic growth by 1.2% this year! When you provide some data, let me as well: industrial production and exports reach between 5% and 10% growth, with the exception of construction, we are on the path of recovery. The deficit is at a good 5%, we have a relatively low rate of inflation. The country's debt is still far below the European Union's criteria and average. However, through the measures taken, we have provided and maintained 25 000 jobs. No offense, in the area of entrepreneurship promotion and competitiveness over the past two years, the government has supported more than 4 000 300 company projects and has called for more than half a billion Euros. Support to the development centres of the Slovenian economy amounted to slightly less than 200 million. In creating the conditions for the development of the economy, it also proves that in 2009 and 2010 we recorded a rise of 5,000 49 new companies and cooperatives and 4 thousand 191 espionages. Of course, there are also alarming data on unemployment, or they are lower than expected, but of course they are still concerned. We missed, or the delay in time, when the crisis came to Slovenia, so Slovenia is now slowly emerging from the crisis with some backlog. As the number of unemployed in the European Union is slowing down, the number of unemployed in Slovenia is slowing down or the number of employees is rising. What I want to tell you is that Slovenia is currently maintaining all political, social and economic conditions so that it can emerge from this crisis. However, there is a need for a little more optimism and a little more style in Slovenian politics and society. If we support each other and, I'll say, encourage, then we'll look forward to doing better. If we see only bad things in everything, there will be one malaise in society that is not good for anyone. And then here's the question of an alternative.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u12	Thank you very much. You want to complete the answer, mag. A viscous? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u13	Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! The numbers are inexcusable and eloquent. I've listed ten specific points where the official data and the numbers are bad. These comparisons are made in comparison with others in Europe, and not only because of the crisis faced by all in the European Union. Surely they are also the result of the timeless and inappropriate action of this government. While the government has taken some measures to mitigate the consequences of the crisis, they have generally been too slow, incomplete or even targeted in the opposite direction. For example, job conservation measures have largely postponed the problem of forgiveness, spent 200 million euros and virtually no jobs have been created. The guarantee scheme has caused many reprogrammings of loans to construction tycoons who eventually failed and many people have lost their jobs on the road. The opposition has proposed three sets of anti-crisis measures, over 100 concrete sub-legislative proposals, and unfortunately no cooperation partnership has been adopted. Such a proposal, which could at least partially settle matters, was also in the end to bring an end to the silent associates and to the enrichment of individuals. It is also difficult to avoid the feeling that the Government does not have the answer to the accumulated problems and that it even supports some influencers and tycoons. Here are some examples, say your lobbying for the Wallar SCT-posts in Libya at the Gaddafi self-reliant. Then a state firm like Dars quickly settles accounts to dedicated companies such as SCT, many subcontractors and employees are free of charge for the work done. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! These cases I told you hurt people because they feel that some are dedicated, so-called tycoons, protected, so nothing can happen to them. I'm asking you: Will you take the initiative to disclose all these people’s accounts abroad? Are you going to stand up for the confiscation of these people's assets?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u14	Thank you very much. Mr. Prime Minister, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u15	I don't mind. On the contrary. The government, under the leadership of the Justice Minister, is drafting four laws that will also affect this area and regulate things better than they have been before. People who cared more about the ownership of businesses than their management can not be found in our mandate, but were the product of the previous ones. I'm not accusing anyone of doing this on purpose. The fact is, the legal system or poor supervision has made this possible, but not in this mandate. We were the ones who turned the moral category of tycoon into a law-enforcement act and also made it impossible for people to continue to receive credit for thinking about their property and not the management of the companies they were responsible for. Another time. I want to tell you that this month we will work very hard on the competitiveness pact proposed by Germany and France. With this competitiveness pact, the working group I set up last week will also come before the presidents of all parliamentary parties, i.e. the opposition's accounts in mid-March. Mr. Ambassador Vizjak! Can I count on Slovenia to participate in the competitiveness pact in a crucial decision like this, but there are six conditions for this, and I can count on your cooperation as well? I am not saying that I need an empty support far from this, but a critical consideration is whether joining Slovenia is a competitiveness pact that will require a lot of us, too, I will say, partly a view of the expenditure side of the budget, or can I count on understanding from your side. If and for all, then we have the opportunity to settle down, as I have said many times, on this German-French train and take the first locomotive forward. If this option were not, as you say, due to poor references, Slovenia would not even be actively invited to do so. Yes, it is. In Slovenia we are thinking about this and working, in the Slovenian government we are preparing measures, and now you are here in front of everyone, as you are me, before your colleagues, I ask that in mid-March when we come up with a proposal for our cooperation in the competitiveness pact, which will be a very difficult thing, but will slowly but confidently get Slovenia out of this crisis to come along and express your views. With regard to the situation in which we have come with the new government, I once again say, with no offense: Slovenia was poorly prepared for the crisis. I don't blame anyone in particular or any government in particular. That is why we have slightly more problems than any other country has. But still much less than most of us are comparable.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u16	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizjak, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u17	Thank you very much, President. In accordance with the provisions of the Rules of Procedure, I would like to propose a debate on the response of the President of the Government. Dear Prime Minister, of course we are in favour of cooperation. However, before we talk about the competitiveness pact, we would expect in the Slovenian Democratic Party your response to our partnership 2 + 10. At the beginning of the term of office, we gave you an initiative to cooperate, and so I would say that this cooperation was uncaringly rejected. And we miss this cooperation all the time. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government! I think that many workers and workers without a job, 60,000 unemployed more in this mandate, 46,000 less active in this mandate, can no longer live off the promise and not from the optimism you are wasting. For promises and optimism there was enough time in the first half of this term. We should be reaping the results now. But I gave you the results in ten points. And let me repeat them: the decline in the competitiveness of the economy, the fall in the economic climate, the rising labour costs, the delays in payments, the higher number of bankruptcys, the fall in GDP, the fall in investment, the deficit of the state budget, the rising public debt and guarantees, and ultimately the dramatic increase in unemployment and the fall in labour. This, and not the last time I told you, is the key to pension reform. If these 46,000 were not less labour-intensive in 2010, if there were more unemployment, if there were more investment and work in this country, then the issue of pension reform would also be significantly less. Once again, all these international comparisons show that the cause of this situation in the Republic of Slovenia is not only a crisis. And your finger pointing back is typical. When you defend yourself, you don't know anything but to place your responsibility on someone else, but rarely on yourself and your team that you are among today. But you didn't answer that question, so I think that the debate is also crucial. All these falls on a material level hurt people and beat them in the pocket. It is even more painful to feel that people have been wronged, that on the one hand some who have "furnished" the Slovenian economy sit well in beautiful villas, have thick accounts abroad and smile at these people in a mustache. I asked you why in God's name you don't want to disclose these people's assets abroad. You said, literally, you don't mind. We don't expect you to have anything against it. You must do this as responsible. Therefore, I believe that the disclosure of all these accounts and the confiscation of this money would be a major step in terms of clearing up matters in Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u18	Thank you very much. Mag. Vizjak, you can no longer ask the President of the Government in a procedural proposal because he can no longer answer you. On the proposal of Mr Mag. Andrej Visiak, that the National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, will decide tomorrow, 1 March 2011, in the framework of the votes. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be asked by Franz Bogovic of the Slovenian People's Party Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u19	Good afternoon, honourable President of Parliament, distinguished President of the Government, ladies and gentlemen ministers, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! Economic sovereignty is certainly one of those fundamental sovereignties that the state must provide, and also territorial integrity and also the situation and events that take place at the border and at the border on our side are part of this. Therefore, in line with the many initiatives that have been addressed to us, also to you, I ask you: Or how does the Government of the Republic of Slovenia monitor changes in the structure of property owners and consequently the population in all border areas of the Republic of Slovenia, specifically in the border area with the Republic of Italy in Slovenian Kras? What will you do to ensure that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, in a historically always sensitive area along the border with the Republic of Italy and on Slovenian Kras, will ensure the quick, timely and appropriate protection of Slovenian culture, cultural landscape and language in Slovenian Kras and prevent the likely long-term consequences of the open property market at the border and the right of immigrants to communicate with the Slovenian authorities in Italian? We know that you have appointed an interdepartmental government commission to examine the subject and the options for action, but because time is running out and there is a risk that the deadline for action will be delayed, we are giving you an initiative in the Slovenian People's Party, a request which has already been expressed by civil initiatives, that the State of Slovenia should immediately initiate a procedure for the adoption of protection measures relating to the real estate market in the European Commission, just as Denmark has achieved the protection of the southern territory against the purchase of citizens of the Republic of Germany. Since Slovenia can only ask for a general safeguard clause by 1 May 2011, it is necessary to act immediately, so I ask you: Or in what way and when will you, by your authority as Prime Minister of the Government, ensure that the Republic of Slovenia will request the use of this safeguard clause in due time?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u20	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u21	Not to be forgotten later, honourable Member, the Danish case is somewhat special because it has chosen a special annex in the negotiations on the purchase of real estate. However, this does not mean that Slovenia does not have any legal or other means to protect the interests we are talking about. As you rightly warned, the government has therefore decided to establish an inter-resortary group. It is now working, and we expect it to say in due time what decisions could be taken within the scope of Article 37 of the Act on terms of accession, including Slovenia, to the Treaties of the European Union. As you know, on the basis of the principle of free movement of capital, Slovenia must also ensure the possibility of purchasing for all citizens of the European Union. Notwithstanding the above, Slovenia has provided a fuse during the membership negotiations, I think you mention it in your question as defined in the Accession Treaty, so that under Article 37 of this Treaty we can apply this general safeguard clause over a period of 7 years. This deadline, as you have rightly mentioned, is due this year, and action is now needed. I believe that this Commission will soon conclude its work and that we will take, if necessary, further measures that are important from this point of view, perhaps before any other, perhaps more broadly. In addition to that protection clause on the real estate market, there is also the possibility of introducing protective measures and control mechanisms, such as those introduced by Italy and Austria, as far as I know, in sectoral laws and regulations. As it is said, we, I reckon, will find out early enough what we can do – here I warn you that the principle of reciprocity applies – that we will safeguard our interests if we consider them possible and also report to the National Assembly on our actions in this regard.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u22	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Please, Mr. Bogovich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u23	The President-in-Office, also in a letter addressed to you by the representatives of the Civil Initiative, stated in the request that you should immediately publicly identify yourself to the problem presented and take appropriate action to prevent progressive spatial devastation and the long-term national erosion of Crassus. As we both said, a commission was set up to be appointed by the Government on 17 February. Responses from the government have been, these are your quotes that the government must be careful and smart, that we must be aware of the free movement of capital. In my question as Prime Minister and Prime Minister, I ask you if you can say this now, given that the Commission is already working and is already very clear on the part of many initiators of this problem, that the top of the country is to be defined. I myself assess that this is an issue of eminent political concern. Finally, a decision by the European Commission is necessary for such a safeguard clause for this area of property to be adopted by 1 May. So I have to say that in a way, I'm a little surprised that the first person to lead this committee by rank, if the question was first addressed to the President of the Government, then the Justice Ministry, within which this person is within, is the Minister, Secretary of State, Director of the Directorate, and then the people who run the sectors in the individual ministry, say, level five is if we go in the hierarchy, the one that will prepare this decision for you. I think that, for such an eminent political issue, it is also necessary to express clearly the political will, so I would expect that the answers to this question will also be given politically at a higher level. After all, we've been dealing with Italians lately when the European Commissioner [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u24	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u25	Dear High Council! As much as this is a matter of political will and possibility within the legal order, then there should be no misunderstanding here. The Slovenian government has the same view as the vast majority in this house, including you who are asking this question. Therefore, when I answered the press questions, I said, for the first time, not only as a Primorec, but also as a Kraševec, that no one is, and neither am I, indifferent to this question, that I am well aware of the need to deal with it, but not to talk about it, and that it is necessary to take into account the possibilities offered by the legal order. And that's exactly what's going on. Once we have these options and if a political assessment is needed, the government will say so if a wider consultation is needed, as well as a wider one. Let this high assembly not be misled, we have the same interest, and we understand that we must move within the legal order to which we are bound, within the principle of reciprocity, but here are some options in front of this clause and other instruments that I have mentioned that give us some idea of the measures that may be discussed in a different way than ever before this high assembly in an open session.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Bogovich? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u27	In accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I propose that the National Assembly hold a debate on this issue at its next meeting. As I am aware of the deadlines and deadlines of this Commission, this expert level will be carried out by the Commission before our next meeting, so I propose that we hold a debate at the March meeting on this pressing issue, which is certainly one of our problems, which is the right thing for policy to speak about in the National Assembly. I propose that we also vote in accordance with the Rules of Procedure on this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u28	Thank you very much. On the proposal of Mr Franz Bogovic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 1 March 2011, in the context of the vote. The question to the Prime Minister of the Government will be posed by the Victory of Jelinčič Noblemeniti of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Sexual crime in Slovenia and the gravity of such crimes is escalating and increasing year by year. In the SNS, we have been working in every possible way since 2001 and calling on representatives of all Slovenian political parties, unfortunately not to be successful to introduce a register of sex offenders in Slovenia, to increase penalties in the field of sexual violence by amending the Penal Code, and to extend the limitation of time limits for reporting crimes against sexual inviolability. However, the problem of sexual violence in Slovenia is not taken seriously and responsible by the authorities, as is the previous or former authorities, who have not taken seriously and responsiblely. Sexual abuse is a crime she didn't apologize for. It is one of the most cruel and shameful crimes that must be properly sanctioned in society, so it is very important to speak out about it and to point out the inadmissibility of such acts and the need to sanction sexual abusers. Sexual violence and child abuse are a social phenomenon in an ever-increasing scale. Only 11% of the perpetrators are known in the environment in which they live and most remain undiscovered. An important part of the perpetrators of crimes against the sexual inviolability of the act repeats and returns in cases of sexual abuse reach up to 70%. Given the state's attitude towards victims, care for our youngest is significantly lower than in the US and Europe. It is a shame that in our society the life of a child is less valuable than a traffic offence, because in the field of traffic offences, the government advocates a stricter penal policy, which is supposed to foster greater prevention when it comes to human inviolability, government apathy and obvious tolerance. Given that this is a very sensitive and painful subject, last week I would rather address to the Government a written question on this issue, but the President of the National Assembly, without explanation, rejected my question. But if you don't think you can stop me from alerting me to problems that you don't smell and want to put under the rug, I'm asking you publicly today, President of the Government, Will the Government establish adequate control over crimes against the sexual inviolability of all perpetrators of such crimes, which must be accessible to all institutions active in the field of education and education? Mr President, what are you going to do about this very pressing issue?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u30	Just a moment, Mr. President. Dear colleague Jelinčič, if you could write the question down as you orally presented it today, I would send this issue forward smoothly to the President of the Government. Thank you. Please, Mr. Borut Pahor, President of the Government.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u31	Look, I would also like to say in this reply that there is probably no difference between us in regard to our view of these discarded acts. If and as far as differences in approach are concerned, how to prevent these acts from being prevented, how to then penalize them, this is likely to be part of the professional discussion and at the end of the political decision. If and to what extent we are all likely to be favored here by harsh criminal measures. Of course, I do believe that I am not aware of this area, that this has certainly been taken into account in 2008 when the new penal code was adopted. In Article 84, they are included among the basic provisions for the provision of criminal record data, as you then asked me in the question which I received, on the basis of which, under the conditions laid down by law, the criminal record can obtain information on the unrepeated convictions of any offence, i.e. crimes against sexual inviolability. Another time. Under the second paragraph of the same Article, a specific requirement of institutions and associations entrusted to them by children and minors shall also be made available from the criminal record for already deleted convictions for certain offences, such as sexual assault on a person under 15 years of age, violations of sexual inviolability by abuse of a position by a teacher, educator, guardian, adopter, etc. Under the third paragraph of the same Article, the amendment of the law on the enforcement of criminal penalties provides that convictions for those offences shall be entered in a special record. The conditions under which, contrary to the general principle referred to above, data on persons who have already been removed from the criminal record are also laid down in respect of those offences. Convictions for offences against sexual inviolability are thus entered in a special record, subject to the conditions and restrictions for the provision of data on such persons. When you asked me a question, Mr Jelinčič, the Minister of the Interior told me that the overall guidelines for police work for 2011 are also high among the priorities for prevention and prosecution of crimes in this area. In this regard, the government is working with the instruments it has, and if it considers that there are reasons for it, it may also change legal standards if there is a political will and a majority and arguments for it. Here is the least important of all, because I do not believe that anyone thinks otherwise than the general opinion in the public, that these are repudiated acts that require strict punishment.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u32	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete Mr. Jelinčič's reply? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u33	The fact that there is increasing sexual violence against children and minors and that there are more returnees in Slovenian prisons from year to year is a worrying fact. Europe has taken this complex issue seriously, as some countries have introduced even chemical castration for pedophiles, in addition to the register and the legal obligation to submit a certificate of non-punitive sexual inviolability for those jobs related to education and education. Europe has long advocated a direct exchange of information on perpetrators of sexual violence against children. But the farthest advanced and most restrictive model they have is the United States. Since 2004, our government has been saying that the introduction of such a register in Slovenia should be inappropriate in terms of the principle of proportionality, while the Government is also introducing a new central register for all preschool children, students, students, students and adult education participants, where all of them will be listed, including the most personal data. Unfortunately, the practice is such that victims of these most serious crimes are largely left to themselves, stigmatized, exposed to threats and remain alone in their pain. Such ignorance raises the question of who in the Republic of Slovenia tolerates pedophiles, especially when we see that those measures imposed by prison sentences do not even reach the statutory minimum. On many occasions, however, the perpetrators of these crimes are conditionally convicted or pardoned. The question I have left is: Who in the Republic of Slovenia does the judicial system actually protect? Victims or perpetrators? But I don't think the answer is necessary. There is still no statutory requirement to check persons working in protective institutions within state and civil organisations: schools, kindergartens, camps, holidays and so on, where our children are entrusted with protection every day. So, Mr. President: What are you going to do about the problem I've outlined?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u34	Thank you very much. Please, Prime Minister, Mr. Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u35	It would probably be the answer that everything that needs to be said wouldn't say much. But basically right now, I can't tell you any more than that: everything that needs to be said. No one here has, and that is essential, a very different view of this issue. Both inadmissibility, as evidenced by the desire to prevent and punish such acts by means of preventive policy and, where appropriate, criminal policy, if there are professional grounds and reasons. The Slovenian government will soon amend four important laws. All to prosecute crime, economic, organised, even so. The Slovenian Government is open to initiatives and we will listen to proposals and arguments for them. I suggest, however, that we do not always try to create the impression that everyone has all the solutions for all the problems, while the Government does not see them and there is no solution to any of the problems. That's what we do, and we want to do it. If and as far as this readiness is concerned for proposals that improve the situation, the Government will certainly not be indifferent about them on this issue. That's what I want to assure you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Jelinčič? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u37	In Slovenian prisons it is only due to sexual violence and assault on a person under 15 years of age, on average 50 convicts whose sentence is only 3 and a half years on average. The biggest disappointment, however, is the decisions of the judicial branch of government, which, in spite of the already low maximum penalties, does not decide on the sentence of imprisonment for crimes against sexual inviolability, but on the basis of a straight-out excusable explanation, if we look at only the last such case that has occurred in the public. The concern of the SNS delegation is also demonstrated by the higher average penalties for pedophiles in the United States, which are 11 years old, and by the European Union or its members, of which Slovenia is fully passive, agree on a simplified exchange of data from criminal records that will prevent the continuation of such acts in future in individual countries. Each Member should therefore be obliged to keep a record of the criminal convictions of its nationals, regardless of where they are to be found. You make excuses, and your answers are not correct, they are misleading, even though they have been advised by the relevant ministers. Therefore, in accordance with Rule 246 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, I request that a discussion be held at the next meeting on the response of the President of the Government to my question. Members of all parliamentary groups are invited to support this proposal. Otherwise, dear Members and Members, the result of the vote will show how important it is for you to abuse the soul and body of a child who suffers the consequences of such acts for the rest of your life.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u38	Thank you very much. On the proposal by the President of the Government to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the President of the Government to his parliamentary question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 1 March 2011, in the framework of the votes. You've asked for it on a case-by-case basis, Mr. Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u39	Thank you very much for your word, Madam President. 24th, this is what we received a notice a few days ago that ministers will not be participating in today's agenda. Among these ministers is written Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior. Even a few minutes ago, when you read the absence of ministers, you also read Katarina Kresal as a minister who will not attend the meeting. And we are surprised that the data we receive from Members of Parliament on the table does not match the actual situation. Since the Minister was not present at this meeting, we did not prepare oral questions, for example, we did not ask about the Hypo case, we did not ask about the National Investigation Office, we did not ask about the Bulmastifs and other major stories in this coalition. And it is clear that Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, is one of the 18 Katarin Kresals in this country, as was previously written in a letter to colleague Branko Grims, that Drago Kos is one of the 18 Dragos Kosov and therefore cannot give information to be heard by the investigative commission. Dear President of the National Assembly, honourable ministers, President of the Government, I propose that in the future, so that the oral questions take place as they should in order to be addressed to the right people, with the right themes, with the emphasis, at least tell which ministers will actually be present and who is absent from the fact that these matters coincide, without having any documents on the table, with the head of the National Assembly sent by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, do not match what happens in two days. I think that's unacceptable. This is also why no questions are raised at the meeting of the National Assembly in the context of the oral question of Members of Parliament's affairs to the true ministers. However, as we do have cases that may not have ever been mentioned to be absent, we ask them questions, then they are not at the meeting, and at the next meeting, when all the news is gone, we have, as in this meeting, 10 oral answers to the questions that we have asked a month ago. The news of these issues has passed. Therefore, I propose that the 1st item of the agenda of the National Assembly should also be taken seriously, as the President of the Government would like it to be said, by oral questions. And in the future, I suggest that such things never happen again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u40	Thank you very much. While you were asking this procedural question or proposal, I inquired and found out that Minister Katarina Kresal apologized, her apology was valid. She will also leave today's plenary session soon because of the commitments she has made. And in this respect, I could only say that we should give her the credit that she came when she could, or she would have to leave because she has other obligations related to her work. So much for that. The question to the Prime Minister will be posed by a mag. Borut Saiovic from the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. In opening, I must point out that some of us in this Chamber have a second mandate to make sure that the benches held by the Government at this point are certainly more largely filled in this mandate than in the past, as Members and Members have been extremely positive. My question, Mr President of the Government, concerns problems and problems related to economic crime. The fact is that economic crime in this country has been too long for years, but it has never been as forward as it has been today, because of the recession, because of the economic crisis, and on the other hand, which I find extremely commendable and important, the government has put the pursuit of economic crime as one of the first priorities of its action. This is, last but not least, an extremely valuable message to citizens and citizens who want and require such actions to be detected, properly sanctioned and all that has been done on the basis of such criminal activity is also properly seized and returned to the state budget. The message must be clear: the place in modern Slovenia is unacceptable and will be sanctioned without mercy. We are also pleased to receive a message from the daily news media: if they were previously closed, as we would like to say, reserved only for chicken thieves, now this is no longer the case, it is no longer untouchable in this country. That's why I'm finally asking you, Mr President-respected: What is your opinion, do you think the Slovenian police are successful in the fight against economic crime? What are the results of her work? Do you agree that the National Investigation Office, which was established last year, is the right response to the challenges posed by economic crime? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u42	Please, Prime Minister Borut Pahor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u43	With regard to your last question, I can certainly give you a positive answer, and I can also give you arguments for that. Not only with regard to the obligations, tasks and results of the work of the National Investigation Office, which we have set up in this mandate in order to better prosecute organised economic crime, but also with regard to the conduct of the police acting as an independent body in the composition, nor do I interfere with certain cases, the Minister gives only instructions on the general direction of the police. Pursuing organised and economic crime is a priority number one. Let's look at the results. Last year, the scope of treatment and the criminal complaint of completed economic crime increased by 41% compared to 2009. The property damage to these acts amounted to just over half a billion euros, which is 162% more than in 2009. There are several reasons for this increase in economic crime. I am pleased that the police and other law enforcement authorities are also successful in detecting and sanctioning this. The share of economic crime in the overall structure of crime is increasing from 10.5% in 2009 to 14.6% in 2010. Also, the share of property damage caused by economic crime increased in the structure of the entire property damage from almost 70% in 2009 to almost 90% in last year. The share of economic crimes investigated remained at the same level in 2010 as that of 95.23% in the previous year. On the basis of the Law on the Liability of Legal Persons for Crimes, 73% of the crimes of economic crime, for which legal persons were also responsible, were also brought to justice, as in 2009. As you know, the National Investigation Office has been established and is currently investigating or investigating 17 complex cases of economic crime and corruption. If you'll allow me to use your question somehow to answer everything that's been said today. I don't think the whole Slovenian painting is black and white in front of both the domestic and the international public. If I had to determine the nuances in this, I would say that we are in that belt that allows us to get out of the crisis so that no one will remain disadvantaged, that no one will remain privileged, that we will fight for the success of the vast majority of people and that we will help those who may not succeed. Despite the fact that the crisis has affected it more than most other countries, Slovenia is recovering well. If and as much as those who make criticisms are justified, and the Government is not indifferent to them, to the work of the Government and you are establishing an atmosphere, and this is legitimate in a democratic society, you must at the same time tell where the alternatives are. Be careful, whenever we are dissatisfied with the current situation, we have the right to express ourselves critically about it, to open a democratic debate, but what is important to all of us, us, as political elites in the country, opposition and coalition, is to know what is better, what is the alternative. At this moment, I am telling you that, as far as I have my conduct and behaviour, the government is trying to destroy the toughest of the economic crisis, the social crisis. We are aware that 2011 is not an easy year ahead of us, that because of the shocks we are witnessing in our vicinity, there may be a rise in oil, a rise in food, that all of this can change very quickly the basic parameters of the economic crisis, not only in us, but in Europe as a whole, throughout the Western world. We need to look out for peace and good neighborhood. We have to have all this in front of our eyes. Slovenia is on its way to recovery. And I've only ventured so much earlier to urge myself, with a little more confidence, not optimism, but a little more confidence, to look at our will, our desire, and our knowledge to get out of this crisis. I don't see any other more successful alternatives right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u44	Thank you very much. We are moving on to the answers to the parliamentary questions raised at the 24th meeting of the assembly. I thank the Prime Minister for his answers. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr. Ivan Svetlik will first answer the question of mag. Stefan Tisla in relation to public works. Please, Dr. Svetlik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u45	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, honourable Members of the Committee. You are asking about the 2011 public works programme. This meeting was adopted at its 104th regular session. Ten. 2010, at a low level of €17 million. This is a poor half of what was intended for this programme in 2009. Such a definition of resources for this programme is due to budgetary constraints on this area and also to the fact that most of the programmes we implement in the field of employment are financed from the European Social Fund and that these funds must also be funded, whereas the public works programme is not the same because it is difficult to organise it in such a way that administrative procedures can also finance it. In view of the fact that funds for this programme have been cut off, two measures have been put in place at the Ministry to activate as many unemployed as possible. One is ready and will be on call shortly and the other is being prepared. The first measure is a new active employment policy programme entitled Opportunity for me, where organisations will be able to receive a subsidy for the employment of unemployed persons, including those on day 31. 12. 2010 are included in the public works programme and are disabled people over 50 years of age, or have long been unemployed before being included in the public works programme. Employers will be able to receive a subsidy of EUR 7 000 500 for a period of 12 months under this programme for the employment of the unemployed. If the employer employs an unemployed person for 24 months or renews a fixed period of employment for at least 12 months before the end of the 12-month period, he will be able to receive that amount once again. In doing so, I would like to point out that public works are intended to activate unemployed people who find it most difficult to find suitable employment in the labour market. Within the framework of the programme resources available for the implementation of public works, the Ministry wants to give priority to the work and social activation of these persons, through co-financing, the inclusion of persons in local initiatives and national programmes, as well as to help NGOs and the local environment. However, the primary objective of involving individuals is less the activity of organisations. However, the second programme, which we are preparing now and we are talking about additional funds under the 10 million with the Ministry of Finance, will go in the same direction so as to replace this failure with another active employment policy programme aimed at including these unemployed people, which we will not be able to include in public works programmes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u46	Thank you very much. Mag. Stefan Tessel is excused for today's session. That way, he can get to know the answer from the magnetogram. The Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik, will also answer the question of Marijan Pojbič regarding the Inspectorate for the Work of the Republic of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u47	Mr Pojbič, Commissioner, let me explain to you in the introduction that the figures I will mention are for the period 2008-2010 and relate to the activities of public administration and defence, education, health, social protection, accommodation and non-accommodation, cultural and entertainment activities, the activities of libraries, archives and museums. If we look at the answer to the question of how many inspections were carried out in this area, the measures taken and the infringements committed, then we can see that, in full during this period of inspection, there were thousands of 987, thousands of measures taken and violations of 2 thousand [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u48	Mr Minister, you have not switched off before, so now you have four more minutes to set for you, so you can use four more minutes to answer Mr Pojbic. We'll wait, we won't be walking on any nearby microphones.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u49	Well, I guess it'll work now. I have provided details of the checks, the measures and the infringements. In addition, at the end of 2010, the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia carried out a targeted action in which they monitored the implementation of labour law in the administrative units of the Republic of Slovenia. Specific information on the measures taken and the infringements identified will be provided in the 2010 report to be issued by the Inspectorate. Let me point out here that significantly less infringement of labour law in the public sector than in other activities is comparatively seen. Predominantly, there are violations in the field of labour relations. The most common is that, for example, the employer does not hand over a photocopy of the application to a worker, compulsory social insurance, then the infringements relating to the publication of a job free, regarding the provision of protection against sexual and other harassment, regarding the prohibition of the conclusion of fixed-term employment contracts and the like. However, in the area of safety and health at work, the most frequent infringements concerning the training of workers for safe work are, after that, the management of records, the provision of preventive health checks and the like. With regard to the third question, Mr Pojbič, as regards the efficiency of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work, I think this is what these figures speak of, as regards the checks carried out, the measures taken and the infringements found. This is evident from the annual reports prepared by the inspectors each year. These reports are then published and accessible to everyone. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u50	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Pojbič?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u51	Your Honor! In your reply it is not noted that you or the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia have dealt with all suspected violations for work, especially those that have recently become known to the public and relate to the Chief Inspector for the work of Borut Brezovar. Recently, we have witnessed in the media the statements of Chief Inspector Borut Brezovar, who point to reasonable suspicions of violations of the labour law on his part. It is entirely inappropriate for the Chief Labour Inspector to disregard the rules applicable to him and other public servants. It is undeniable on the basis of his statements that there is a reasonable suspicion of at least two infringements. First of all, it is clear from the media that Mr. Bezovar is 9. 12. During his term of office in Colosseum and Zincarna Celje, he was absent for six hours during the mandatory official presence. From you, who's in charge, he didn't get consent to use the extra hours as for the Journal 24 messages from your ministry. Therefore, its absence constitutes a reasonable suspicion of infringement of the Regulation on working time within the public administration authorities. And the second time that he gave those lectures he didn't have a contract for it, it comes from his press statements, more specifically in his contribution to Journal 24, 16. 12. 2010 This raises reasonable suspicion that he has co-operated knowingly in violation of the first indent of Article 5 of the Law on the Prevention of Work and of Employment in Black. That's why I'm asking you: What did you do as the minister to whom the Chief Inspector is responsible for identifying the above-mentioned violations of the Chief Labour Inspector? How do you see that different criteria apply to these employers and to the Ministry of Labour? Do you think such actions would make Borut Bezovar the chief inspector of the work, given the work and responsibility he manages, as an example to other inspectors, employers, public servants and the general Slovenian public?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u52	Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Dear Mr Pojbič, everyone in this country must be subject to the same law, both for the employees, including the employees of the Ministry, and also for the inspectorate. I must say that, with regard to the work of the inspector, of course also of the other co-workers, there are many reports and complaints, sometimes also those controlled by the inspectorate, for various and sometimes understandable reasons. We examine such applications, check them, and in this case we have examined when this information came, and we have not found any irregularities. At times, however, the interpretation of the activities of Ministry staff, including inspectorates, in the field is very questionable because they not only control but also advise in different environments so that no infringements occur. And that's their role. However, if you have very accurate information on this, we may not have received it yet at the Ministry, but I invite you to also submit it and we will check whether what these statements say is true or not. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u54	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u55	I propose that we have a broader hearing on this issue in the National Assembly. Mr Minister asked if I had any evidence or specific arguments for this. Here's one of these arguments. Mr. Secretary, I hope you've read this. There's another one. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u56	Comrade Pojbich, do not speak directly to the Minister anymore, because you know I can't give him my word. Please justify the procedural proposal. It's just that, nothing else, we're gonna vote one way or another.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u57	All right, Mr. President. I still think that when the media wrote about this problem and highlighted it, they wrote it with certain arguments and evidence, which they certainly keep in their archives, if I may say so. I think it is therefore essential that we deal with this issue more broadly, because it is easy for us to re-emerge when, on the one hand, poor citizens, workers and everyone else are subject to one law, but those who are leading officials and, among other things, those public servants are not. After what has been written in Journal 24 it is possible to understand all the key things that are necessary for the Minister to be able to respond appropriately in accordance with his mandate. Since he did not mention in that report here today a single word of the problem, that is to say that they were trying to hide the matter again or to put it under the rug. And that seems irresponsible, unfair and unfair to me. The fact is that the law must apply to everyone in that country equally, whether it is the first inspector in that country, or whether it is the one on the tail of this story, everyone must be treated equally. But what's important is, tell me how workers, employees, employers can trust an inspector, a chief inspector, when they hear and read such addresses and things that they write in these articles. This means that if those key people at the summit do not comply with the legislation, how will they then convince the other citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to comply with this legislation. And that's a key question that's been coming up to us all along. As with this problem, when it comes to Mr Brezovar, I think it is also about other matters. Since it has been said many times today that it is important here that all the team of ministers sit here, and this is a key issue, instead of thinking about what this team of ministers has done for this country and for these citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This should be a key issue. And when we face problems like this, then [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u58	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Marjan Pojbič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs to his question of the Member State, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 1 March 2011, in the framework of the votes. Minister of Health Dorian Marušič will answer Sam Bevk's question regarding the management of hospital infections in Slovenian hospitals. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u59	Dear Mr President, distinguished Member, Members, Members, Fellow Ministers, Minister! Hospital infections are an area that is satisfactorily or highly regulated in Slovenia by the law adopted in 1995 and is governed by the Law on Infectious Diseases, with all sub-laws. The advantage or impact of this law is that we are programmed to prepare for the management of infections within the framework of a commission operating at the Ministry of Health, so-called NAKOBO – National Commission for the Management of Hospital Infections, which prepares programmes or guidelines for the preparation of programmes at the level of individual hospitals. These have the appropriate commissions to prepare programmes and also monitor the effects of these programmes. In the years since the law came into force, we have received many doctors, nurses, who also control it. Where does Slovenia come out? In 1997, we started to systematically disinfect our hands, which is one of the most important causes of hospital infection transmission, immediately to Switzerland. The analyses that we have carried out later have shown that Slovenia is one of the best in the European area in the management of infections in comparison with some other countries and in comparison with the European antimicrobial system of resistant bacteria. Since 2003, an indicator has been introduced to be carried out by all hospitals and to monitor the number of infected patients and to take appropriate measures in the course of annual programmes. Of course that's not enough. In the course of the annual analysis, it was found for 2008 and in 2009 we also found some deviations in the consumption of antibiotics, so we introduced two regulations. I accepted them in January of this year. It is a regulation on the addition of a regulation on the conditions for the preparation and implementation of a programme for the prevention and control of hospital infections and a regulation on the professional supervision of the implementation of a programme for the prevention and control of hospital infections. In my view, these two rules show a very high degree of cooperation between the Ministry and the expert commissions. The Commission found an extremely large difference between hospitals in the use of antibiotics. We have found that there is no real control in the Slovenian space, so we also introduce greater control in the use of antibiotics, which indirectly also allows the growth of bacteria that are resistant to certain antibiotics. I do not have the final data for 2010 when they will, and we will also present them to you. However, in 2010 the Commission, acting within the Ministry, also prepared recommendations to prevent the spread of ESBL positive bacteria and positive carbapenemase. There is a great deal of willingness, or there are many programmes, to monitor these hospital infections. I would also point out that, as a result of demographic trends, the ageing population is also involved in the preparation of programmes to prevent infections in the homes of older citizens. Due to our involvement in European space, we have also prepared an approach to the study to monitor infections in Slovenian hospitals in cooperation with the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. If there is no European support, we agree that the Ministry and the Institute for Health Protection will approach this study in 2012. As Minister, I understand that there are also individual cases that these bacteria can be a very big problem, but I am sure that, at least through systemic measures, we manage them satisfactorily or even very well compared to many European countries.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u60	Thank you very much. You want to complement the Minister's response? Mr. Bevk, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u61	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected choir! Thank you for your answer, Mr. Secretary. I would like to say or repeat that in the course of the seminar on hospital infections at the Faculty of Medicine last year, last April, hospital infections were found to be a major problem in working with patients. The fact is also that the first epidemiological investigation in 25 Slovenian intensive departments in hospitals was not carried out until 1997; the prevalence of MRSA was 75%. In October 2001, however, the first national cross-sectional study of hospital infections showed 61.8% of MRSA in intensive units and around 30 to 40 in hospitals in general. It is said that we have not been as well evaluated as we have been in some other European countries. Therefore, my second question in the previous meeting of the National Assembly was whether after 10 years we will prepare again, of course, the Ministry of Health, together with the competent services, a second Slovenian national preliminary study on hospital infections. Only on the basis of this study could they make a comparison with the year 2001 when the situation was not best. However, these measures have significantly improved the situation today, but this is exactly the way we can confirm this. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u62	Thank you very much. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u63	Your Honor! Very quick answer. Yeah. As I mentioned, under the so-called pan-European approach, a re-intersectional survey is planned. Slovenia will join this European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control. If there is no agreement at the level of Europe, Slovenia will decide, unfortunately not in 2011, such a cross-cutting study lasts a little longer, so that we plan to do it on its own in 2012 at the latest if there is no readiness in Europe.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u64	Thank you very much. Minister of Health Dorijan Marušič will also answer the question of Alenka Jeraj regarding the exchange of property for the Institute for Health Protection.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u65	Your Honor! On 9 March 2010, the Republic of Slovenia concluded an alternating pre-contract with Mabra Engineering. With it, the parties undertook to enter into a swap agreement in which the Republic of Slovenia would hand over ownership and ownership of Mabra- real estate, i.e. the replacement between the Vienna crystals and the so-called Institute for Health Protection. This pre-contract in Article 3 shall also cover certain conditions to be met by Mabra in order for the contracting party to accede to the conclusion of the main exchange agreement. The Parties undertake to conclude an exchange agreement within one month of the fulfilment of both conditions. This period was extended from 31 August by the annex to 31 October. On the date on which the extension period for the extradition of premises in S-1 and S-2 Vienna crystals expired, Mabra did not fulfil all four cumulative conditions laid down in Article 3 of the Treaty of Exchange, which it was obliged to fulfil in relation to the text of the pre-contract, so that it was registered in the Land Book of the District Court as the owner of the property where the S-1 and S-2 Vienna crystals stand, that the land book would give rise to the fact that the property was free of all burdens for the benefit of a third party, that it would be used for the S-1 and S-2 business and residential complex of the Vienna crystals. On 10 February this year, the Ministry of Health called on Mabra to provide an answer by 15 February this year, or to fulfil all the conditions. The letter we received showed that it did not meet all the conditions. In addition to certain loads on real estates which would be subject to conversion on the Mabre side, no applicable authorisation has been given for the final use of columns standing on parcels in the Colossae. In the absence of compliance by the counterparty, the Ministry of Health informed the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the grounds of the divorce of the exchange agreement and it dissolved the swap agreement. Following a decision of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia on the divorce of the exchange contract on 21 February this year we informed the counterparty, and on 17 February 2011 we submitted the documentation to the State Defence Office.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u66	Thank you very much. Mrs Jeraj is justifiably absent, so she will be informed by the magnetogram. Minister of Transport Dr. Patrick Vlačič and Minister of Finance Dr. Franc Križanič will answer Branko Marinič's question regarding the financial rehabilitation of Slovenian railways. First of all, Minister Patrick Vlačič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u67	Thank you, President. It's agreed that I'll be on behalf of both of you, if you don't mind. Is that okay?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u68	You can spend five minutes. Will the Member be pleased or not? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u69	Activities related to the rehabilitation of Slovenian railways have been taking place since 2009 when it was found that the situation on Slovenian railways is very critical. The Ministry has taken immediate action to resolve the poor financial situation and in this regard has taken measures to improve and has cooperated with the Slovenian Railway Administration. You probably know the so-called steering committee led by me, where in the first phase, without the help of external colleagues, we sat on a weekly or two-week base with the administration and agreed together to address the financial problems of the Slovenian Railways. On the inside, we've done quite a few processes. We have embarked on rationalisation of business, optimization of work processes, human resources restructuring and financial consolidation in order to stop the trend of increasing loss as soon as possible. In parallel, there have been some other improvements, some other activities such as the recognition of passenger traffic claims, which I have estimated, and so I have also proposed to the Government, generated by systemically, we can say that there is at least inconsistencies, if not even a mistake. The State has always recognised to Slovenian railways the price in passenger transport or the subject of the subsidy and the amount of the subsidy, and then the regulation stated that the money should be given as much as it is provided in the budget. The money was provided less than was agreed in the passenger transport agreement. This is why we decided in the Government that this was the true systemic inconsistencies that systematically incorporated the loss of passenger traffic. That was part of it. That is why we also went extremely deep in economic public services and in the first three months of last year we also drank to the point that, in fact, economic public services should not lose. What is agreed and which is an economic public service must not generate loss. For the purpose of comprehensive rehabilitation and reorganisation, we have also performed a public order. A. T. Kearney’s main tasks were to prepare a business conversion plan for the rehabilitation of the Slovenian Railways, covering both the analysis of the existing situation and the presentation of the desired situation after the business conversion by assessing the effects of all organisational units, by all levels of management and by all business processes, as well as a plan for the immediate elimination of imbalances between the desired and actual situation in the Slovenian Railways, active participation and advice in the implementation of the business conversion of the Slovenian Railways at all levels of decision-making and the preparation of a proposal for the development of socially acceptable solutions for over-employees with a proposal for an identification model containing both an analysis of the staffing needs for the business conversion of the Slovenian Railways as well as the development of a reduced number of employees model, taking into account the stated needs of the company. Then the preparation of the Slovenian Railway Restructuring Model is in line with the European Union’s owner’s guidelines and legal order and advice and active participation in the implementation of the best working model of the Slovenian Railways Group in accordance with the owner’s guidelines, the European legal order, with the possibility of granting the procurator to the project manager or the consultant by the contracting authority during the duration of the comprehensive project. The process of rehabilitation and restructuring is not completed, but is under way. It is actively supported by members of the Steering Committee, the management of the Slovenian Railway Company, the advisers of A. T. Kearney, and is a comprehensive process that cannot be completed in a very short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u70	Thank you. You want to complement the Minister's response? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u71	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Respected and respected! Of course, my parliamentary question was raised at the January 31st meeting on 31 January, it is a month from that, so some things have already been revealed in the media. This, however, causes difficulties in the procedure that we now have when a Member or a Member, in this case in particular, receives an answer that is not as substantive as my question. My question was: How was the financial rehabilitation of the Slovenian Railways carried out? I don't have time to repeat the whole question now, but it wasn't the content of your answer, Mr. Secretary, to my specific question. That is why I expected you and the Minister of Finance to share your time and give a comprehensive response. We know that 134. or together with VAT 140 million have recently been rejected. This probably comes from the content of my question. And now I have a question. I asked you after the specific contracts you signed. It is 40 million if we take into account VAT and agree that this would result in the financial recovery of the Slovenian Railways, it is contrary, at least in my opinion, to the law on public finances. For you have signed a contract and defined the time delay in paying these recognised costs for the public economic service to railways, for which you do not have financial coverage. There is also a question for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u72	Thank you. Please, Minister Wlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u73	Thank you. Your question was: Were Slovenian railways financially rehabilitated? No, they weren't saved financially. I made that clear at the end of the answer to your question. But the fact that the process of recovery has seriously begun is true. We have also received their request for recognition of the claim and we will also resolve this matter. In the next few days, you will see how we can save her. However, the proposal is due to the fact that before the decision to exempt public rail infrastructure, freight transport was financed by public rail infrastructure. And when the cut was made, when this public railway infrastructure was exempted, there was some difference in the financial situation and the accounting situation was not regulated at the time. We have received this request from the railways and we must also arrange it. You know that the Slovenian state, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, must not grant State aid to Slovenian railways because it was granted in 2004. And all these claims, which are being cleared back, I described one earlier, for example, an embedded systemic loss when no one felt the need to settle it because, in fact, at the annual level, the loss from passenger traffic was generated due to the rules it was. We've changed that rule. And now I expect no loss from passenger traffic. And this is how financial recovery takes place, so that we can sort things out that weren't arranged for us to go back. However, how this will be done will be carried out in accordance with the Public Finance Act as regards the claim that has been recognised. There's no other way. If a claim has been recognised in the Government, then the budget of the Republic of Slovenia will determine in the tranches how this will be settled.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The minister's got a bad minute.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u75	Thank you very much. I would only say so much that the claim for a compulsory public service amounting to EUR 38 million 400 000 was actually recognised and that contracts for the implementation of the relevant public economic services were also signed last year, which allowed for the smooth implementation of this service despite the complex situation. I would add that the railways on their posts have quite a few resources allocated to the budget. This totalled € 142 million in 2009, € 139 million last year. This is a means of maintaining rail transport, maintaining infrastructure, maintaining and modernising stations and regularly maintaining or implementing passenger traffic. These are sufficient resources that are a stable source of this operator [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u76	The minute's over. You only have a minute. I would ask the ministers and ministers to attach the microphone only when I give the signal because there may be errors in timing. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Marinic?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u77	Yeah, sure. In accordance with the Rules of Procedure on the work of the National Assembly, I propose that the National Assembly carry out a broader discussion on this subject, which has obviously led the Slovenian Railways on a blind track. Days ago, February 22nd, and also today some media report a catastrophic situation on Slovenian railways. In doing so, it is not worth ignoring and ignoring the fact that, last year, the President of the Government himself announced a very bombastic, financial rehabilitation of the Slovenian Railways by the end of the year. This financial rehabilitation of the Slovenian Railways has not taken place. It is expected that, according to the way and according to the model planned by the Government or the competent ministries, this time too will not work out well. What Slovenian Railways will do in the first half of the year is, of course, another issue. Everything shows that they do not have the right solution for the rehabilitation of Slovenian railways in the financial sense and the reorganisation of the Slovenian Railway this time. The National Assembly shall be responsible for the legislative area of how it works. For we adopted the relevant legislation in December, exactly 16 December 2010, – the reorganisation of the Slovenian Railway System and the railway transport law, which clearly defined investments. It is therefore reasonable to suspect that the proposed legislation was considered by the proposer in the National Assembly with a view to the financial recovery of the Slovenian Railways at the expense of reducing investment in public railway infrastructure. In this regard, it is right for the National Assembly to have a broader debate on the answers of both ministers and probably also the promises of the Prime Minister of the Government, which show that everything that has been done so far has not produced fruit, and it is a question of what will happen to the Slovenian Railways after the first half of this year. The question is also whether, due to the financial situation on Slovenian railways, you will be able to implement legislation adopted by the National Assembly on 16 December 2010. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u78	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Mr Branko Marinič to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport and the Minister of Finance to his question of the delegation, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 1 March 2011, in the framework of the vote. Minister of Transport Dr Patrick Vlačič will answer Milan Čadež's question on transport links.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u79	Thank you, President. With regard to the rehabilitation of the R3-912 State Road, this is Railways – Divaca-Novaki, which was immediately after the floods in 2007 in the framework of maintenance, so that the possible decommissioning of traffic, arranged or asphalted was also a compulsory road, I can say the following. The rehabilitation is now continuing in investment works, for the section of the Zali Log-Davče road, 7 000 856 metres long, phased construction is foreseen until 2015. The investment is estimated at just under €8 million, €7.8 million. If the project were included in projects financed by European funds, which would mean providing financial resources, recovery could be completed earlier. As far as the Trebia-Sovodenje road is concerned, the repairs of the walls and the corresponding reconstruction of the road at four locations are currently under way and are expected to be completed by the end of this year and the value is EUR 600,000. For the rehabilitation of the long-term walls, the protection of the banks, the reconstruction of the road of approximately 5 kilometres will be proposed this year, if a new investment project is proposed for the rebalancing of the project and investment documentation. State Spatial Plan for the Cerkno-Hotavlje State Road. With regard to your question of the reality and economic eligibility of the chosen option between Cerkni and Hotalja, I can provide you with information that in the process of preparing the VAT for the course of the state road, 5 variant solutions have been assessed. As a result of the comparison, the most appropriate route of the new road under variant north 2 is proposed. The advantages that have been demonstrated are: a comfortable and effective link on the route tolmin-Cerkno-Gorenja vas-Skofja Loka, the time between regions is reduced to the greatest extent; the comfort of driving is great because it is a low altitude of passages into the tunnel and because of the favourable elements of the road, the developmental non-conflict also in the valley of Kopačnica, does not cross the valley north of Hotavelje, but preserves the integrity of this area with a passage in the tunnel, which in this part is acceptable in terms of urban development. It is also suitable for the development of leisure activities as it enables a comfortable connection of the ski centre Cerkno and enables the anticipated development of spas in the valley of Kopačnica this optimized route. This route also performs the function of the Cerkno bypass. The proposal for the most appropriate version of the new road link, which has proved to be the most appropriate option among all variants and does not reach economic eligibility, was therefore the most appropriate version of the proposal made in June 2010 by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, which adopted a decision on the continuation of the VAT preparation procedure under this option. The most appropriate option was the proposal of 21. 6. 2010 by the Ministry of Environment and Space and the Ministry of Transport and Directorates of the Republic of Slovenia for Roads presented to the municipalities of Gorenje Vas, Cerkno, Idrija, where there were no comments at the time. I reiterate that the process of preparing the VAT or making an idea project will be followed by an optimisation that would cost the investment and make it economically justified. Well, since we were sitting together at this meeting last time, I'd like to tell you the following. I listened very carefully to the arguments you presented to me, and I listened to the arguments of Mayor Cerkne. I'll be with the Minister of Environment and Space or myself, we'll make a deal, invite both mayors to an interview to resolve this Gordy knot. The problem is, they have different views. One option you don't like, one option he doesn't like, but here we have to agree somehow. We need to agree, because every road intervention is a conflict, every environmental intervention is a conflict in itself. I suggest that we find a solution together so that we can be content. I've been ready to talk for a really long time so that no one in this process will feel that this solution has been imposed. But now I have a fundamental problem that you, as mayor, disagree with what the mayor of Cerkne, and vice versa. We have to solve this problem together.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Would you like to complete your answer, Mr. Chadjeg? Please, I meant what I meant. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u81	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary, thank you very much for your answer. Perhaps at the beginning I would also like to commend the last work in two years on the movement on the path of the fourth development axis itself, as the archdiocese is built and also on the outskirts of Gorenje you are quite made, so we are quite pleased here. As regards the first part of the response to the link between the Zali log-taxa road, I would like to stress that you also stated in your reply that the project of the good seven kilometres of the long route would be completed by 2015, but do not forget the promise of the Prime Minister at last May's visit to the railways when he promised that the road would be completed within one year. This is just a warning and I expect it to be realized. However, as regards the link between the fourth development axis, we both know that the existing VAT is not real. It is far from reality, since the average price of a mile away is 11 million and in this local environment of the Polish Valley, which is extremely natural, to place tunnels and viaducts, it is not an invasion of the environment, that is all. And the proposal of the municipality of Gorenje Vas-Poljane, which is followed by both the public and the municipal council, last but not least by me as mayor, as well as currently as a Member, I would like to point out that it is necessary to place our feelings in the environment, to examine carefully everything that has been done so far, but I have remembered your words most. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u82	Unfortunately, Minister, this last most important sentence has been overheared because the microphone has been turned off. I'm asking for a supplement.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u83	How glad I would be if all these state roads, which need to be repaired this year, could be done: Posočje, Partizanka, Railways, Koroška, in Prekmurje there is a bunch of things Styria is quite fine, except where in some part of the state road they were little destroyed due to the construction of highways, but Styria has a very good road network. [[...]] There are a lot of parts in Slovenia where money is used bloodyly on state roads and it would be my greatest pleasure to do it all as soon as possible. It is likely that this President's commitment was made before the rebalancing when, for various reasons, we also had to cut off the legal obligations of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and, in order to reduce the budget implementation, in fact, on investments. To me, my heart bled just as much as all those who fell out of those programs. We are looking for different ways to put forward proposals for this financing of state roads in a different way. I've talked about this a number of times in the National Assembly, we have models of a kind of semi-public-private partnership. I have made these proposals several times, and I will make them again, something similar to Germany, which does not have enough money for state roads. So there are some ideas, and otherwise within this framework of the budget as we have it, because you in your government have already provided more money for state roads than before. We have continued with this trend, which I think is fine, but the fact is that because of this lower budgeting, it had to come to a balance and it was cut at these points. This is a problem, and believe that when it's a little bit better, as far as finance is concerned, all these projects will come at once. But as for what I said earlier, it's an expensive option, but in the streets you always have to look not only at the cost of the road. The price of the road is only one part, I agree that it is very expensive, but the price of the road is one part of the transport economy. So environmental acceptability, the transport economy, that is, this connecting moment of infrastructure that we want to bring into an environment. A number of reasons affect which route you choose, you know this system. I have said several times that some route in Slovenia is also a monument to human stupidity, and now I will not say again, because I am already plenty of time, which is because it cost a lot of money. Let's find some optimal variant there. But you're gonna have to make a deal. I've been ready to talk to both of you for a long time, but somehow we have to make a deal, somewhere this road has to go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Chadjeg? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u85	Thank you again, Mr President. Everyone in Slovenia knows that the connection between Gorenjska and Primorsko, I can say, is very difficult for today. For this reason, I also propose that a broader public debate be held in the National Assembly, because these things are burning. We need to distinguish the eastern part of Slovenia, which is mostly flat, and the western part, which is hilly, and the connections are time-bound longer on the western part of Slovenia than on the eastern part of Slovenia. And you have to be aware of that. I will now repeat that, Mr Minister, when you said at the end that there is no means for the 4th development axis to make this debate more difficult to realise. I fully understand you, but I would suggest that you include in the reconstruction programme at least R2-403, which runs along the Seine Valley, the connection to Primorska, and the connection across the Poljanska Valley, this is R1-210. This is crucial, where we can speak realistically today, because we well know that the current proposal for placing the 4th development axis along the Kopačnica Valley is unrealistic and I propose a variant of the south that we do not open new corridors but improve existing ones. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u86	Thank you very much. On the proposal by Member Milan Čadež to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Transport to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 1 March 2011, in the framework of the votes. The Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, will also answer Janez Ribič's question regarding the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Transport Act, in particular with regard to the transformation of the Directorate and the Society and the resulting safety of employees.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u87	Thank you, President. The correct use of vinjets at toll stations is supervised by Darsa, the Customs Administration, the Traffic Inspectorate and the Police. Travel control shall be carried out systematically in relation to traffic flows in which [[...]] [[advertising in the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u88	Yes, I'm sorry! You must answer Mr Ribič's question regarding the implementation of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Transport Act. I'm sorry I didn't listen to everything.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u89	Just a minute. I'm so turned on the vines, I missed your question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u90	Please proceed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u91	The establishment of a new company will be carried out in accordance with the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Rail Transport Act. This provides that the management of public rail infrastructure investments at the expense of the Republic of Slovenia shall be carried out by an economic company of 100 % of state ownership. The only founder and associate of this company is the Republic of Slovenia and the business share must not be transferred to another person; this is probably what you remember when we recently adopted the law. And according to the regulations of the law, the Ministry is carrying out activities in order to carry out our tasks in a timely manner. The law entered into force 11. 1. 2011 and so we have until 11. 4th this year is the time for this decision. The company will assume the tasks of JI within 6 months of the entry into force of the law for the management of investments, that is 10. Seven. 2011, and the Minister shall determine the content and manner in which the IT system of investments in JI is managed. Implementation is 180 days, but here we will try to do this sooner because this is about transparency of the public money actually spent. Deadline or clock is two years after law enforcement, I'll try to do it sooner at the Ministry. With regard to the situation of workers, the law provides that when undertaking investment management tasks, the company shall also take over part of the employees who perform certain tasks on the day of the entry into force of the JI law. Part of the employees who, on the day of the entry into force of the law, perform on the JI tasks related to the Ministry will come to the Ministry. For these two reasons, there is no uncertainty about the employees. One part goes to this newly established company or to a company in 100% of the ownership of the Republic of Slovenia, which will carry out the tasks of investments which are commonly referred to as new construction and part to the Ministry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u92	You want to complete your response, Mr. Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u93	Thank you. Dearly-respected Minister! I have another question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u94	Complementing the question, not an additional question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u95	The new company is intended to lead only new constructions and upgrades and renovations are expected to fall under the Ministry of Transport, which, through public procurement, would seek out contractors for individual projects. Slovenian railways could also apply for this invitation to tender. This, as can be understood, actually duplicates the functions of managing investments in the area of upgrades, additionally the intermediate article between the investor, that is the country, and the concrete operators. This will make the system impenetrable and complicated. Instead of speeding them up, we'll stop the investment. When the Slovenian Railways themselves are invited to look for specific operators, they will violate the European directives and find themselves in a conflict of interest, as we have pointed out in the adoption of the law. However, it is equally unacceptable, harmful and highly uneconomic that it would undermine investments in this way. Where do the real causes of such irrational solutions go? How does the Ministry intend to resolve this and prevent the negative consequences that I have stated? Given that Mr Marinič proposed a debate in the National Assembly on this issue, I will not do it alone, and thank you for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Please, Minister Patrick Wlačič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u97	See if you can get anything on investments [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u98	Just a minute, Mr. Wolf. Apparently, our measuring devices are not working. I suggest you start talking, I'll just watch my wristwatch, but you have three minutes. Please, Mr. Wolf.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u99	If investments in railway infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia were to go well, then I would not change the system. The fact is, we're ahead of one big investment cycle. At least my desire as Minister of Transport, the desire of those who believe that something needs to be done in the field of the transfer of goods from road to rail, the desire of those who believe that the environment is being overburdened by road transport, all on the basis of the conclusion that public rail infrastructure in the Republic of Slovenia is old, durable and needs investment. The system like this is next. We have a directive, which is a body within the Ministry of Transport, which works part of the tasks that we call new construction, and part of the tasks that we call upgrades. Then we have railways carrying out maintenance and renovations. There is virtually no reconstruction in Slovenia, because every time a so-called renovation is done, upgrades are also made, such as an increase in load capacity or electricity or something like that. The fact is that at this point the system is untransparent, because our directorate, because it's not sufficiently teamed up, on a wide scale with public calls, gives something to the railways, something to give here, something to put there. This moment is untransparent. Now it will be completely transparent: we will have the new constructions to be carried out by a company that will own 100% of the Republic of Slovenia, we will give all the upgrades with a public invitation to tender to someone – who will – and probably Slovenian railways will also be able to run on this call, while maintenance and reconstruction will continue to be carried out by Slovenian railways. So the new constructions are, according to the local word, the construction of a completely new track, the upgrade of electricity, the increase in load capacity, the improvement of elements, bridge objects and so on. When restoring the track, it remains with the same elements as before and maintenance – basket, lubrication and so on. I think right now the system is completely transparent, on a new set. That was exactly my goal: transparency of the system. Because so far it has happened that someone under the law had the task of carrying out the upgrade, but someone else has done it. That's exactly what imprudentness was about right now.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u100	Thank you very much. Just a moment, please. The Minister of Transport, Dr Patrick Vlačič, will also answer Ivan Gill's question regarding control over the use of vinjets. Please, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u101	Thank you, President. I used to go to the vineyards so I wanted to answer in advance. So, as I said earlier, the inspectors of Darsa, the Customs Administration of the Republic of Slovenia, the Traffic Inspectorate and the police exercise control. Travel control is carried out systematically in relation to traffic flows, taking into account various factors such as holidays, both at home and abroad, various major international and domestic events and daily migration flows. Special attention is paid to surveillance during the tourist season, when the Republic of Slovenia crosses many those who buy vineyards for a short period of time. That is why there are many coordinated supervisory actions with other criminal authorities. In 2008, when blames were introduced in the middle of the year, travellers issued 15 thousand 684 payment orders, in 2009 51 thousand 989 payment orders, and in 2010 51 thousand 641 payment orders. They gave a thousand 630 warnings. According to the number of payment orders issued, road traffic controllers issued approximately €7.5 million of fines in 2010. In this regard, the proportion of the perpetrators of the offence due to unpaid tolls in foreigners is 95% and the Slovenian nationals is 5%. With regard to the determination of the proportion of users of motorways which do not install valid vineyards on the vehicle, Dars monitors and analyzes the data on a weekly basis. Data collection is based on a comparison of the number of offenders detected by toll controllers during their actions and the total number of users of the motorway at a given section. The data shall be compared only at the locations of toll roads where quality data can be provided. At toll stations, we get a total number of vehicle crossings from numerical devices, and the number of licensed drivers are forwarded by tollers. By analysing the above data, the proportion of non-wine vehicles shall be determined. This is about 1% and even around 2% in the summer, usually less than 1% outside the tourist season. In doing so, it should be stressed that data cannot simply be generalised as it is not possible to provide data on the total number of infringements on all motorways, because not every vehicle is completely controlled. Monitoring shall be carried out on a sample basis and at locations at which Dars considers it to be the most effective and the control of all traffic with existing human resources. We have 96 road controllers who are evenly distributed throughout the entire highway and expressway network. Road traffic controllers will soon begin to exercise a new authorisation relating to the stopping of vehicles during driving, which means that road traffic controllers will be able to carry out toll controls, following a new one where it has not been possible for reasons of traffic safety so far. During this time, toll control vehicles shall be equipped with light boards allowing vehicles to be stopped while driving. In addition, road traffic controllers will soon begin to exercise control over the use of vinjets also through video surveillance, which will significantly simplify the control process itself, and in these cases it will not be necessary to stop the offenders and to keep them on the scene of the offence for the conduct of criminal proceedings. Of course, the latter does not mean that the control will be carried out only by means of technical means, but the toll inspectors will nevertheless continue to exercise control with a classical method, i.e. by stopping vehicles. It is a fact that the use of technical means to detect infringements can further strengthen this control and that the offender will in fact be detected, i.e. virtually everyone. As a result, the effectiveness of the control of vineyards will also be improved.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u102	Thank you. Would you like to complete Mr. Grill's answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u103	Thank you very much. Dear Minister, you have also provided an answer to some of the answers that I have set out for you. But I didn't get the information: Is there an estimate in the financial amount of what percentage or two, if I understand you correctly, of vehicles which are not expected to be guilty during the tourist season? I think this amount is very high. Look, I come from my own experience. In fact, I drive on the highway every day, and I must say that I was very careful just at the time the holidays took place in Croatia right after the new year. And I must say, from New Town to Italy at that time, certainly half of the cars with Croatian registration without wine. And at that time, there wasn't a single section of inspection or surveillance. Therefore, this finding or your statement that this control is trying to adjust mainly the time of vacations or holidays mainly in foreign countries surprises me, and I was also uncomfortablely surprised at the time that there was not a single inspection. I am sure that money is being driven along the highway, but we do not know how to pick it up, because I am sure that with more systematic supervision and even sanctioning, we can get much more into Darsov or the state budget. Therefore, it would be worth considering that this control, as you have already said, will be further accelerated. I would also suggest that, above all, border crossings may be made with more noticeable boards, mainly by foreign drivers, to buy vignettes. I don't think that's enough, because a lot of people don't accidentally buy guilt and not systematically or intentionally, but that this thing is just trying to motivate them to buy guilt. If, perhaps, we could answer about the amount. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u104	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u105	Thank you, Chairman. That's exactly what this camera system is about, where it'll be possible to detect anyone who doesn't have blame. Then it can also be stopped in a much safer way than it is now, when virtually all traffic at some section stops. I get a lot of disgruntled responses when we're in control because it's causing anxiety. But let me put it this way: of course, this is not a pleasure to receive about 7.5 million fines, but this is significantly more than a drain due to those who are blameless. If we're trying to calculate quickly, I don't have this data right now, but if we get something over 100 million from the vignettes per year, that's, say, the pessimistic variant, 2% of the vehicles, that's something over 2 million a year. But with penalties we get significantly more, indeed in the integrated budget, but the country is not in that sense to the detriment. Of course, you are right that for anyone who rides without wine, there is damage to the state. It is true, however, that when we have full control, this will simply be completely clear to all who come to the Republic of Slovenia to pay for it, then basically the effect for us will be worse for the country if you look at it that way, because the penalties will be less and all the money will be collected. Let's say that if we calculate it now, it's going to be about 5 million euros in difference right now. But well, you still have to do control. As far as these notification tables are concerned. If you want, I can also give you a brief overview of what Dars has prepared for informing foreigners because we have prepared for the Commissioner. I think this information is pretty good. Of course, I could always be even better, but I can send it to you, and then you can also create an image of how many of these signs are, where they are, what distances; and that's not enough. Today I have to say about a foreigner who comes to the Republic of Slovenia and drives without guilt and says he does not know that in the Republic of Slovenia he is guilty of missing a lot of tables.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u106	Thank you. Mr. Petan, Mrs. Radiceva is gone, will you still ask the question? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u107	Thank you for your word. Honorable representatives of the government! My question is addressed to the Minister for the Economy, but I would like to ask her about silent companies, which represent a source of financial abuse, financial manipulation, unjustifiable wealth, illegal contract making and, above all, what is very critical for the whole country, the outflow of capital abroad through some postal collectors. Particularly current are Liechtenstein and Cyprus. Certainly, however, the case with silent companies has culminated in, or at least shed light on, those who have so far blindly followed the political affiliation of the case in question, when it became clear that the President of the Taluma Danilo Toplek is also the owner of certain companies at the same time, and more companies with which the Talum operates, on favourable terms, may even be privileged conditions. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we are aware of this problem and have proposed a solution. Today, the Prime Minister of the Government, when answering the question, said that anyone who had a problem with the measures taken by the current government should propose an alternative solution. I can say that we have proposed it, an alternative to a silent society is a public society and we have proposed it, but the ruling majority have peacefully rejected it, even with the support of the Government, which has not agreed that silent societies will become public. Apparently, someone's got hide-and-seeks, table machinations, away from the eyes of the public. In the case of silent companies in the sky, I ask the Minister of Economy: How do the government in the Ministry intend to respond to and prevent the problems that have arisen in Slovenia when the presidents of the administration, in particular those who are still in the majority ownership of the country, conclude contracts with themselves and enable businesses to be exhausted? I expect an oral response from the Minister at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u108	Thank you. Mag. Andrea Richter, please ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr. Žarnić.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u109	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. True, the minister is here now, now there, apparently, as is our environment and space. Dear Minister, it's a flood. Environmental protection or changes due to floods are likely to be a constant in your work, especially probably in some authorities of your ministry. I would, of course, be interested because last year I heard or talked about the fact that the Ministry of Environment and Space added a number of means to solve such problems, flood safety problems. You have also proposed, in the course of the budget debate, that you help local communities with some concrete content, such as the preparation of flood maps, which we know to be a major cost to local communities. I would be very specifically interested in this: How is this thing going? What congregations have you already occupied? On the other hand, we know that ARSO has had a few less planned resources in its rebalancing for this year, but we know that – if we are talking about its area of Celje and the flood security of Savinja, which is always at risk – much more resources are needed. I also remember that there have been local elections where the Government – and, of course, local communities have been expecting or expecting a solution, not least that the promises that have been made have been resolved. In this regard, I am also interested in the work of the Water Fund, which discusses the resolution of some of the problems with villains. Again, in my area, the region of the Celje region or Celje as such. I also recall that the then mayor or current mayor and the local community were just trying to co-finance their own duties, the obligations of the state, because the state was not then, and not yet, able to obtain funds to draw on European funds. Therefore, Minister-in-Charge, quite specifically: Which activities have you already carried out since last year's promises? What is happening in your ministry and in your organs? And: How will concrete measures ensure flood safety in this year and in the future? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u110	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u111	Thank you very much, Chairman. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Emissary issues are the opportunity to make some inventory and to tell us what is wrong with our promises. In our ministry in the field of environment, there are two major themes and many important smaller ones. And two great darknesses are waste and floods, or all that is associated with water. We manage the waste story somehow successfully and also through the acts that we have recently published, we are somehow taking it to the end. Floods, however, are a matter that is now running parallel and which will be strongly intensified in the coming months. We've got big backlogs here. When the floods occurred, we also found out where the reasons for the years in this area were less than they should have been. However, we have taken quite a few of these steps since the flood, which should have begun to bring more order in this area. State spatial plans are being prepared for the most endangered places, such is Ljubljana, including the Celje area, and this is some technical part that is now happening and which will be completed in the expected time of this year. This will also be the basis for the development of project documentation and actions on the ground. We also have many facilities that need to be repaired, including many dams that have a function in agriculture and flood control. Let's say Vogršček is one of them and another one of them. With regard to flood maps, I have just signed a contract for the production of a whole of Slovenia worth about EUR 1 million. The invitation was, the three of them applied, we chose the most advantageous one, and these days the contract will be signed, and we have some details to settle. Thus, that promise to obtain basic data for the production of flood maps will be fulfilled. I must also say that some liquidity funds have been raised at this point in the Water Fund, but some other operations have not yet been completed, which could be used immediately and to the extent necessary. Right now, they're the biggest embarrassment, the biggest problem of personnel. We know that we have a limited number of personnel, we know that it is constantly repeating how many employees are in our ministry, which is also possible, but not the right ones. Right now, I'd need 15 water experts and problems around him, because I can't give some administrative officer a job that only an engineer can do. Because of the construction situation as it is, I think there are quite a few experts on the market right now who are not allowed to work because of known restrictions. I'm going to open this matter up at one of the government's meetings and ask nicely if, at least in this area, it's important enough to make an exception so that we can get it started. I also promised to organise a new group of new water directorates, which we have called DIVO with shortcuts, this matter is being organised and it will run and we will have to deal with this problem in some way. On the contrary, if we are just assigning tasks to companies, we have done a bad service, because knowledge is spreading and we do not have our own staff to do so. I want to say that we are working in this direction, and about what specific numbers we can follow.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u112	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u113	Minister, if you do not currently have any specific information available, I will ask if you can inform me in writing. I really don't care about your human resources problems, and it's a matter of organization, how you organize. They've been flooding the waters since we can remember. I live next to Savinja and since the memorial, because it changes its course, it's connected to a way of life. Of course, I am very interested, given that promises were made last year, specifically: How many additional funds will our concessionaire Level get to solve the flood problems that occurred three, four and five years ago? I believe that Ljubljana has finally been flooded once and that things have fallen apart, but you know, Savinja swims every two years and every two years we're almost destroyed. And the whole area of Celje is threatened or we are in an area where it is always necessary to have the consent of your ministry or agency for any intervention, and this is, last but not least, a very high burden on investment or asset acquisition. That is why I would be interested in the promises and also in the drawing up of European funds, because the Municipality of Celje has prepared itself very well, and it has done everything for itself, but, as the Ministry says, because of the problems you are mentioning, it has not been possible to prepare its share in the documentation and in drawing up the funds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u114	Thank you. Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u115	Thank you very much. In order not to take too much time, we will make a concrete review and also the responsibilities that Level has within the regular concession contract and also look at options if they can do more for additional funds. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u116	Thank you. Mr Milan Čadež will also ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Mr Jarnić. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u117	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again a nice greeting for me! Dear Minister, a number of observations and complaints have been made by citizens who own property in the process of public decommissioning of mass property valuation. In particular, it is the land on which the categorised local roads, public roads and other public areas have been built in the past. Since its establishment in 1995, the majority of municipalities have also obtained from their predecessors an irregular situation in the area of ownership of built local roads and public roads. In view of the high costs of geodesy and compensation to landowners, the municipalities manage very few cases annually. Accordingly, it is noted that the arrangement of ownership relations for municipalities is too large and therefore we expect cooperation from the State as well. I am thinking mainly about solving the above-mentioned problem with simplified and substantially faster procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u119	Your Honor, thank you very much. Unmeasured public roads are one of the heritage of the previous social system, as you yourself have found, and you know well, which we must resolve in a modern way. At that time it was appropriate to ensure quality road connections, regulation of ownership relations and payment of possible compensation was not exactly a front. Earth cadastre data analysis shows that more than 23,000 kilometres of categorized roads are undetected or land-booked. Unmeasured public roads are, by actual use, recorded as walled land and therefore, the value of the plots on which these roads are carried out is too high in the valuation of real estates. Unregistered roads affect the incorrect determination of cadastral income, cause problems in spatial planning, regime setting and much more. We all agree that this problem must be addressed urgently. Road managers are first called for this solution. The remediation of this problem by the implementation of the classical geodetic measurement, compensation to landowners and the regulation of the land register is an overburden for public road operators, as you rightly said, even for municipalities. That is why our ministry is preparing for a more rational solution, at least to start in the field of registering roads in a land disaster, which would allow better data for land valuation, spatial planning, the establishment of cadastral income and other public purposes. As a result of the expected lower costs of the cadastral measurement of roads, problems of compensation to landowners will still remain for the municipalities; this burden cannot be passed on to the ministries by the current legal order. We propose that a transitional period should be introduced until this problem is settled in the introduction of a real estate tax, so that landowners who run undetermined roads would not pay taxes for these land. However, the responsibility for the management of the land register should be somewhat regulated in cooperation with owners or with state and municipal property managers. With regard to the purchases of these land, it will be precisely because of these measures that it is possible to make the issue of glass easier and this serious problem and hard nuts will have to be tackled in some way. In the future, there may be other legal solutions, what innovations in laws are possible, but in the current legal order, the issue is that unfortunately, the congregations are the ones who should bear this burden as managers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u120	Thank you. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u121	Thank you for your answers, Mr. Secretary. We both know that quite a good number of land-book owners are in the nature of the road and the public road. You also correctly note that this is primarily the legacy of the previous system, when it was, we can say, "all of ours", but today ownership is an essentially different category. I myself agree that the legislation would provide for a transitional period, and as you said, owners would not pay taxes for these lands. Now I'm especially interested in: When will that be? In view of the topic which is very topical, I also propose a broader debate in the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u122	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u123	When will that be? When I checked with my people on the Geodetic Board, they know this problem. The matter is not so complicated in time, it's more of a political decision. And since this is also one of the steps forward, we will agree in our house to prepare things as soon as possible in accordance with the legislation and then on one of the committees we might also discuss this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u124	Thank you. Well, as I understand it, Mr Čadež is proposing a debate on the Minister's response. On the proposal of Mr Milan Čadež to hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Environment and Space to his question of the mission, Mr Jarnić will decide tomorrow, 1 March, in the framework of the votes. Mr. Radovan Žerjav, Madam Minister is not here. Will you still do that? [[...]] Here is the question, Mrs Darji Radic, Minister of Economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u125	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. We have recently witnessed the collapse and bankruptcy of more Slovenian construction companies, including so-called large construction companies, such as Vegrad, CPM, SCT and so on. These are mostly companies that have obtained most of Slovenia's major infrastructure projects in Slovenia, including, for example, the motorway cross, even today. In the same breath, when we see these companies, once the pride of the Slovenian economy and construction industry, to fail sadly, the same actors who, because of their greed and greed, have brought these companies into such an inexhaustible position are predicting a shining return to the Slovenian construction scene by setting up new, fresh, unladen companies. Ladies and gentlemen, I'd like to ask you: How will you ensure that state infrastructure investments are completed within the agreed deadlines in those cases where the undertakings that received the business in the tender are already in bankruptcy proceedings or at the very threshold? Or how will you prevent the chain establishment of new businesses to persons who, as owners or directors of companies, have destroyed them or forced them to settle or bankruptcy, and now, through the newly established companies, would like to return to a secure volume of state investment and budget money? I request an oral response at the next meeting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u126	The Minister will answer your question orally at the next meeting. Mr Willi Trofenik will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Mr Gregor Golobic a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u127	Thank you for your word. Nice greetings to all present! My question is about building a broadband network, but not about the current call for proposals, but about the implementation of projects that are under way or should have already been completed and that have undoubtedly been granted funding for them in a questionable way two years ago. In principle, the construction of a broadband network in the area of so-called white foxes is not disputed. Undoubtedly, however, it is a questionable practice both to identify white foxes and to carry out investment works and to remedy irregularities. In 2008 and 2009, €45 million was granted for 12 projects in a rather questionable way from the point of view of citizens living in the area of actual white foxes compared to those living in the area of recognised white foxes. On my question of responsibility for identifying the white foxes who received the European funds granted two years ago, the competent minister then replied to me, citing: "To determine the areas of the white fox, both the local community, the Ministry of Economy and telecommunications network operators are responsible. The final list of white foxes shall be drawn up by the Ministry of the Economy on the basis of the information obtained from the study prepared by the Geodetic Institute from data transmitted by local communities and on the basis of information provided by operators expressing commercial interest in each area and thus stating that they intend to build broadband networks in these areas. Each local community had the opportunity to participate in the definition of white foxes in the manner proposed by the Ministry of Economy." End of quote. Nevertheless, there have been inadmissible errors. White foxes have been created within recognised white foxes or otherwise said: in practice we have areas or, better said, villages where on one side of the road a broadband network is being built, on the other side of the road is not, and at the same time it is being built in parallel with the optical network in settlements where the owners of existing optical networks are already built with public funds, operators who have been involved in the production of white fox projects. I'm asking: What is it, or what will your ministry, which has taken on this issue from the Ministry of the Economy, do to address these irregularities? This question, posed in writing one year ago, was not answered until today.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u128	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u129	Thank you so much for asking. In fact, in your question, you have already summarized the answer given by the Minister for the Economy before the time, in fact at the beginning of the mandate, and where exactly did he take up the procedure, how, in 2007, and in the years around 2007, when this call was made, white foxes were defined, so I will not take it personally. Your question concerns in particular the question of the ex-post assessment of the correct implementation of that call, taking into account all the criteria and possible measures. The fact is that most of these projects have been completed, something small is still in progress, most of them have been completed in the meantime; and what is increasingly clear and is consistent with some of the indications in your question is that it has obviously occurred in that call for irregularity. There are suspicions of this, they are increasingly justified, and I have already, in this sense, reviewed that call and all the related actions of both the Ministry, the competent companies and other institutions. The fact is that it is an extremely important project in a sensitive area, in the area of providing some key development infrastructure in Slovenia, which is also handicapped or deprived, and that particular attention should be paid to the correctness of the allocation of these funds, non-derogation and transparency of the process. The interest is large, white foxes in Slovenia, including the current discussions on the new call for proposals, so called GOŠO 2, show that the need to engage public funds to build this network in the area of white foxes is great and that new steps will have to be taken here. The identified weaknesses, shortcomings of the previous call and the law on the identification of white foxes were eliminated in the National Assembly by a amendment to the Law on Electronic Communications. Indeed, in the process of identifying white foxes, operators, commercial operators have been called in the past to tell where they intend to build such a network in the next 24 months, so they have a commercial interest. They did so, apparently, in many areas. One such case was mentioned by Member Zorn months ago with a fig in his pocket, if I may say so, with a view to preventing competition, but not in fact to express an interest in the construction of this network. In the new ZEKOM, we have defined sanctions for such behaviour by operators. An operator who has committed himself to this new call, or who has pointed to a commercial interest, to build a network in some area within 24 months, will be subject to a penalty of up to EUR 240 000 if this forecast is not met. This is one of these changes that has been made in this context. With regard to the specific invitation to tender and procedures with the so-called GOŠO 1, i.e. the construction of an open broadband network, I have ordered the Ministry to carry out a thorough audit of all actions. This audit is drawing close to its report, and I will soon get a report showing where all the mistakes have been made and who is responsible for them; both on the side of the Ministry, the competent services and the municipalities and any third parties involved. At that time, it will be possible to talk specifically about names. I also intend to take this report to the attention of other competent institutions which need to monitor the transparency of the use of public funds. The sanctions, which are also possible here, are for Slovenia to lose the right to reimbursement of the funds that have been paid in respect of irregularities identified and to impose penalties. This is all the truth we will have to face in case the audit confirms the suspicions that exist. As I have already mentioned, they show quite a few justifications. [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u130	Thank you. Would you like a supplement, Mr. Trophynik? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u131	Thank you for your word. The Minister, with what you have said, can agree, but remains a fundamental problem: inequality or discrimination against citizens in affected areas that are not guilty and are not owed anything – in order to lose this service. On the left side of the road to illustrate, they will have a broadband network, on the right side of the public road they will not have it. That's a fundamental problem. And the second fundamental problem is questionable, as you yourself have acknowledged, the use of European funds. In January of the second year, as you yourself have stated, we will have a very interesting situation. Areas for which operators are responsible will have access or will not have access. I doubt that these operators, irrespective of the envisaged penalty, will fulfil their legal obligation, which expires in the second year of January, as far as I know. And we will have the same situation in those areas where European funds have been spent, some citizens will have access, others in the same village will not have access. Of course I'm interested: Who will be responsible or already responsible for remedying an unacceptable situation? In fact, the cost assessment for individual projects to eliminate white foxes in white foxes goes to millions of euros. I doubt they're investors to fix this. I ask very briefly: Who is responsible, or who will heal the situation? Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u132	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u133	As I mentioned, the main part of the answer to your question will be possible after the audit has been carried out. It is clear now that such areas will need to be remedied, that additional resources will be needed to do so in order to achieve this discrimination. On the other hand, what are the possibilities of sanctioning doing in other cases, when it is not about building or maintaining a white fox inside a white fox, but where it is about doubling the capacity where, I will say, it is building from public resources a network, an optical network where there is actually a functioning and broadband link between the enabling network of a private provider. Thus both of these irregularities show that the instrument in the past was not best-perceived, and many of this has proved to be true in its implementation. In Slovenia, too, after exhausting the total amount of funds allocated to this financial perspective, there will remain a large area of white foxes and with at least the same attention as in the past Slovenia has decided to repay some €200 million to those citizens who have contributed their money in the area of so-called fixed telephony white foxes, with at least the same emphasis the State will have to ensure that people who are discriminated against either in the way you mentioned or have not succeeded on one or other call for such or other reasons as to provide them with broadband services as universally accessible services in the Republic of Slovenia, what used to be a regular fixed telephone service will be provided to them. This is one of the strategic objectives which Slovenia must pay due attention to in the coming years not only in the design of documents and objectives, but also in the provision of funds for this – either European or national.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u134	Thank you. Mr Marijan Pojbič will ask the question of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u135	Dear Mr. Secretary! Days 20. Seven. 2010 you received an invitation to define the work of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work due to suspicion of abandonment of duty and the requirement to define the privileges of certain foreigners in the Republic of Slovenia. You were thus aware that an application was made to the Inspectorate for the Work of the Republic of Slovenia, where foreigners were to conduct business at the Slovenian company without formal conditions. The Inspectorate accepted an unusual conclusion that it was not about management but only about business visitors. The applicant then sent clear evidence proving that in this case it was not just business visitors' activities. The Slovenian Inspectorate briefly replied to this evidence that the case was closed for them and did not take into account the new clear evidence of the infringements, nor did it identify itself. When you were 20. Seven. 2010 invited to define yourself until the Inspectorate's conduct, you did not respond to our data until today, although the story has also been published in the public domain, and the matter may soon be outdated. How is such a method possible for the work of the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia? While the Ministry does not even respond to calls to explain why the Inspector claims that the matter has been closed despite the fact that additional evidence of the infringements has been transmitted. The functioning of the authorities, especially the supervisory authorities, is, in our opinion, essential for the functioning of the rule of law, in particular in order to ensure effective prosecution of work on black and infringements of labour law. On the one hand, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia restricts neighbouring aid with non-life provisions and, on the other hand, the current law is not being implemented effectively, but those who point out it do not even get your answer. That's why, Mr. Secretary, I'm asking you: What have you done to effectively and fairly resolve applications at the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u136	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u137	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Your Honor! Justice in the handling of applications received is ensured by the fact that the Inspectorate treats exactly every complaint of alleged violations of the labour rules, regardless of who sends them, whether signed or anonymous, in the sense and framework of the powers conferred on it by the law. Of course, the alleged infringement must first also prove what they are doing with the inspection and other ways they are available. In doing so, it should be pointed out that there are also numerous reports of alleged infringements which do not fall within the scope of the Inspectorate's competence. In such cases, they shall be waived to other competent authorities and shall inform the notifier thereof, except where the application is anonymous, in which case they shall not know which notifier should receive such notification. Effectiveness, however, depends on the powers the inspection has to take in order to enable it to act. In doing so, it should be borne in mind that working relationships are primarily contractual relationships, which are primarily a matter of the relationship between workers and employers and are a matter of judicial review and, in certain cases only, an inspection has the power to do so. We are already reviewing the Labour Inspection Act this year, and we may also propose more powers here so that we can interfere with any questionable behaviour. However, another very important factor in addressing these applications is the staff capacity of the labour inspection, which we know is limited. Well, no matter what you ask for effectiveness, let me say that in 2010 9 000 908 inspections were carried out in the field of labour relations, in order to increase the number of criminal complaints filed by the Inspectorate, which have been more rare so far. We note that the number of violations is increasing and therefore the activity of the Inspectorate itself. However, it should also be noted that there is also an increase in the scope of requests for professional assistance to the Inspectorate and in 2010 there were a thousand such requests for professional assistance in writing. The number of individual types of controls carried out in 2010 is also marked by exceptional inspections, as are the controls carried out in various directions and other actions carried out under official responsibility in relation to various applications or initiatives. In view of the nature of the infringement, the controls were largely a priority and, in this case, the Inspectorate must react very quickly. In the performance of the Inspectorate's primary function, this is the exercise of inspection, a total of 6 000 456 violations were found in the field of labour relations in 2010. Thus, the effectiveness of these data is sufficiently evident. We also note that if I add this information, the nature of these infringements or the environment in which these entities operate and then the infringements are different in 2010. In particular, organisations or organisations have less resources to protect work and health, that workers are more mentally affected by increased pressures in terms of forgiveness, non-payment of wages and the like, and thus the infringement of these types is changing. I'd like to add that. In 2010, the total number of safety and health checks carried out at work amounted to 8 thousand 56 and 16 thousand 137 violations were detected. In short, the Inspectorate works, but of course it is never possible to say that it cannot improve its activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u138	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u139	Ladies and gentlemen of the Minister. First of all, I have to say that you haven't replied to anything. I asked you something specific, and you're talking about everything else, just not what I asked you. You've been talking about human resources, it's supposed to be the malnutrition of inspection services. And just one question before, I asked you how the first inspector of this country could afford to teach by companies, instead of being a primary task for him to work in the public interest, the interest of this country, because it is extremely well paid for, and on the other hand, it is essential to him that he earns something in black. I am not saying that this is true, but I am sure that these lectures after companies and so on cannot be and should not be the primary task of the Chief Inspector in this country. Its primary task is to work in the public interest of this country, so it is in this place where it is. And the Ministry and you at the head of this ministry should be the first to be called to control their work. And you haven't even answered my previous question in particular, as one of you would have expected, and you haven't answered it either. I asked you again, I repeat. When you were 20. Seven. 2010 invited to define yourself until the Inspectorate's conduct, you did not respond, according to our data, to this day, although the story was also published in public. Tell me, please: Why was there no answer until today, four or five months after you were invited? Please give me a specific answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u140	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u141	Dear Mr. Pojbich. I received a question from the National Assembly: "What have you done to effectively and fairly resolve applications at the Inspectorate of the Republic of Slovenia for work?" What you just said didn't come to me. So if you have specific questions, specific information that you want us to check and control, please send them to the Ministry and include them in questions and we will do so. Not now, however, to complement the questions I have not received, with some information, from newspapers that are probably not a credible basis for us to make any supervision or inspection. What you're telling me right now, I'm sorry, I didn't get it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u142	Thank you. Do you have a procedural proposal, Mr. Pojbich? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u143	Of course, Mr Vice President. I would like to hold a broader hearing on this issue at the meeting of the National Assembly, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. There's a whole bunch of reasons. First of all, all that I've heard here today and this evading of the Ministry for Key Answers How can Mr. Minister run the Ministry if he is not aware of the basic issues? [[...]] If this is a key item with which it has not been answered for almost five months, then I am sure that it has an extremely poorly regulated situation in the Ministry and is unable to control it or that something is wrong with someone else. It is therefore necessary to make a replacement there so that this ministry works in accordance with what citizens and citizens expect from this ministry. I am sure that citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia expect everything else from this Ministry than that those who have a problem and who draw attention to this problem by the Ministry and the Minister do not receive five months of response. So it means that the ministry works very badly or, as I said, they have employees there who are there to receive nice salaries, to rejoice and so on and they do not care about what happens to this country and to these citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. This is what is very problematic, and we increasingly see this problem happening in most ministries in such a way; that they do not care what happens to citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. They can't live, their standards are declining, so I won't say that we don't know how many over a hundred and thirty thousand unemployed and so on and so forth. Instead of dealing with specific problems and solving them, we hear answers in Parliament today, such as 'you have not asked me this question, I am not able to answer this question'. But I want to know how it could have been that five months ago this issue was in your ministry, and you know nothing about it. It says here exactly, I read it to you, it says here when the question was referred to you. Do I read to you again?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u144	Mr. Pojbich, procedural proposal.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u145	Yes, so, Mr Vice President, I agree, I will not proceed. I think I said what I wanted to say. The fact is, I did not get a concrete answer to this question. That is why I would like to hold a hearing on this issue at the meeting of the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u146	Thank you. On the proposal by Mr Pojbic to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs to his question of the Member of Parliament, the State Assembly will decide tomorrow, 1 March 2011, in the framework of the votes. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will now ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u147	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear Mr. Secretary! My question concerns respect or even more contempt for the Ministry of Environment and Space's legal and contractual obligations. In fact, the Regional Waste Management Centre of the Stajer region, CERO 2nd row, Slovenska Bistrica, in the location of Prague, is the only centre in the region for which a decision of the Government Office for Local Self-Government and Regional Development on the allocation of cohesion and state resources has already been issued 12. 9. 2008 This project is adequately located in spatial acts, is in a flood-proof area and has optimal technology and is in a phase where immediate physical realization is possible. The project is foreseen in the State Strategic Papers, but your ministry, Mr. Minister, the Ministry of Environment and Space, has not prepared a co-financing agreement, despite the commitment of the SVRL Decision of 12 March. 9. 2008 and in spite of the fact that the Ministry of Environment and Space prevents the use or use of European cohesion funds, thereby harming the country and also hampering the development of this area. The centre would be today without sabotage by the Ministry of the Environment and the area just before completion. Instead, the ILO, through inspections, is bullying and punishing municipal companies and municipalities for not dumping waste in a properly managed landfill. This is a perverse, illegal conduct, partly sponsored by the interests and interests of some coalition officials, which prevent this part of the region or eight municipalities that do not allow normal development in Slovenia and prevent the country from drawing European funds from the Cohesion Fund. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister, or asking for an exact answer: When will your ministry fulfil its legal and contractual obligations to the CERO 2 Slovenska Bistrica project in Prague? When are you going to stop stalling and flirting or giving in to intrigues and pressure from some government officials behind whom are the criminal environmental-taccoon acquisition interests to the detriment of the state? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u148	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u149	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Dear Mr Jerovšek! You know that Slovenska Bistrica is a complex story that I inherited and in which, in the past, when I was gone, everything was not as clear as it seems. I'll explain a little, maybe from the other end first, and then this. As regards the implementation of environmental waste management projects, five decisions have been issued so far, including this smart decision. The total value of these five projects is 221 million, of which 118 million from the European Union and 103 from national resources. Here we can find CEROD Koroške, CERO Ljubljana, Slovenske Bistrica, Zasavje and Pomurje. We have work to do in Logatec, Novi Gorica, New Town, Ljubljana and Maribor, and elsewhere. About the Slovenian Bistrica. We must be aware that once the centres are set up, they will be set up, at least according to expectations, with too much capacity. We must also be aware that the European Union can review the eligibility of funds at any time, even if there are problems in any area. In particular, in Slovenia: when the application was prepared, it started at a very low number of 55,000 population units, even though there is a minimum of 100 000, 110 000 in the European Union. I have no problem with this, even if the decision and construction for Bistrica glass, as things are now going on, I will demand some assurance from those who want to have this, that in the event of any penalties and refunds, the ministry will not be the one that will have to do so, but those who have continued to do so. The matter has a decision, as you said correctly, three years ago. It was a shame that the flood story at the time had not been devoted enough time, enough attention, and it was an embedded mistake. In spite of this, this project is not focused on some kind of back-up game. Even though I am experiencing pressure from different sides for and against this project, I want to think soberly, with a technical head – we are both naturalists and we know how this is going – so that things are safe and formally visa-free for the European Union as well as technically resolved. Therefore, do not worry, this project is not put in a drawer, things are happening in the area of building permits and issues that will be resolved in the short term. I'm sure I'll be happy to report it to you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u150	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u151	Mr. Secretary, I asked you for an exact answer. These things that you've discussed and troubled here have been expounded and solved in your conversations. And it's not true that it's too much capacity, not that it's 55,000 population units, but it's 67,000. This area will have a significant increase in gravity, and it is possible that it will gravity here half of the bird’s area and of the maribor region – of course, there are other interests. If this were built, there are already 100,000 population units, because it is the most optimal location, the center of the entire area, on a plane where access is easy. There was no mistake about the flood story, since the study has been done for over a year – and I am a native there close and I know and am a naturalist and technician. And Mr. Minister, stand by for what is exact, clear. Ordering studies to different institutes should not be your obligation. And that's why the harm to the state, if you're subject to, as you admit, the pressure behind which private interests are hidden is tycoon interests. Do not succumb, sign, fill out the pact of sunt servand in this country or at least your government should take the initiative to comply with the signed contracts. And please don't paint these people in this area, not paint them! This project has been signed as a priority, it is in line with strategic documents and you have nothing to think about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u152	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u153	Thank you. I agree with you that things are but the same heads count at least three ends in that end, you know. [[...]] Then as much as you'd have [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] I know, I know, but just like that – Slovenia has at least 4 million inhabitants according to the calculations of the population units I get, but this is, by the way, like an anecdotes. I certainly don't have a problem with that story. As I have already said, it is clear that we will continue to assure those actors involved here that if anything happens, returning any money, which I hope will not be that it will not be the responsibility of our ministry if any matters prove to be overlooked together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u154	Thank you. Mr Only Bevk will ask the question of the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs, Dr Ivan Svetlik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u155	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. A respected choir! The number of unemployed in the country is slowly but steadily increasing. Today, there are about 115 thousand unemployed registered in the Employment Service. In Slovenia alone, it was mostly in the early 1990s, more specifically in 1993, when we had 134 thousand unemployed. An institute of public works had already been established to alleviate the plight of the unemployed. I remember that only at our museum in Idria did we have as many as eight employees on public works. At that time, most of the funds were contributed by the State and some by the local community. I can say from my own experience that public works have done very well. A call for public works in 2010 was launched at the end of October last year and €16 million was reserved in the State budget for this purpose. It is thus envisaged that up to 2 000 600 unemployed people could be included in national and local public works programmes in non-profit employers at annual level. This, in view of the increase in the number of unemployed at the beginning of this year, is clearly not enough. I do not have precise data, but for 2010, the programme envisaged that up to 7,000 unemployed persons would be included in public works. In my view, it is also essential to create significantly more jobs in 2011 in public works. I am convinced that within a few months we could draw up a programme of public works with additional budgetary resources that could include between 7,000 and 10,000 unemployed persons per year. That is why I am taking a parliamentary initiative to significantly increase the scope of public works in the country. The Minister responsible for the work, Dr. Ivan Svetlik, I ask: Do the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs plan to increase the scope of public works or what they have already done about this problem? We have heard about this today, and I would ask the Minister to answer this question of mine. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u156	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I remember myself in the early 1990s, and I consider it an honor to be there when the programs of public works were being designed. This year, unfortunately, as has been said, we had more time-consuming resources for employment policy, including public works, which has also resulted in a smaller call for proposals for this area currently under way. The problem we have right now is that any action in the sense of a new programme or a complementary programme of public works would be too late this year to be effective in this area. As the public works programme is first accepted by the Government, it is an invitation to tender for the selection of public works programmes, then it is a matter of sending the unemployed, and of course it is also earlier for the relevant operators to engage. We usually do this in the second half of next year. Thus, if we want to strengthen the public works programme this year, we are too late to be effective. Instead, it is with the aim of facilitating the situation in this area that we have drawn up two additional programmes within the framework of an active employment policy, the first programme being the Opportunity for me programme, which I have already mentioned today, under which 8.7 million euros will be provided from the European Social Fund. Under this programme, NGOs will also be able to receive subsidies for the employment of unemployed persons who fell out of the public works programme at the end of the previous year. The invitation will now be published on the website of the Institute in a short time and these organisations will be able to apply for this programme. However, in agreement with the Ministry of Finance, we have provided an additional €10 million out of the budget to prepare another programme under the active employment policy, in order to increase the employment problem from the reserve resources. The aim of this programme would be similar, in particular to ensure the social inclusion of long-term unemployed persons and, at the same time, to encourage the activities of those institutions that provide public good at local level, such as social protection, education, culture, nature and the environment. In doing so, the two programmes would also compensate for this loss in public works, reduce the number of unemployed and also help local communities. This is the goal and such programmes can be prepared quickly enough, long enough, so that we can respond appropriately to this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u158	Thank you. Would you like a refill?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u159	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you, too, Mr Svetlik, for answering my question. Of course, it is gratifying that there will be an additional €18 million and €700 000 for the integration of the unemployed into different forms of work. However, I would insist if now the trend in the number of unemployed were to increase so that we would still go to another call for public works and also get reserves from the Ministry of Finance for this call. I do not think it is necessary that such a new call for public works be tied to, say, January 1st of one year, it can also be tied to May 1st, June 1st or July 1st of this year, and in this first half of the year, a new call for public works that would begin to take place in the second half of 2011. I stress that if the trend goes on now, 115 000 unemployed against that figure, which was the highest in the history of Slovenia in the early 1990s, then I believe that additional public works programmes in the country need to be put in place. Of course, because you have this experience, as you yourself have said since the early 1990s, when you actually proposed or co-sponsored public works in the country, I believe that you will succeed even now that you are Minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u160	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u161	Thank you very much. There's nothing to add to that. We will monitor these trends, I hope they will not escalate further, we expect the growth in unemployment to calm down and, of course, we will also propose further programmes to do so. As a matter of fact, if we were to go along the road as required by the preparation of the public works programme, it is not real before autumn that we could prepare such programmes. That is why we will publish these alternative programmes in a short time, but they will be directed towards the same institutions and the same people, so that only the name and framework within which these programmes will be prepared will be different and we will probably be able to achieve this objective more quickly. However, in the event that the problem of unemployment is further exacerbated, it will be necessary to consider public works programmes perhaps in the second half of this year or to strengthen other programmes in this area, so as to thank you for the initiative.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u162	Thank you. Mr Miro Petek, Mr Žbogar's Minister for Foreign Affairs, will you still ask the question? Yeah. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Nevertheless, I will ask the question that they will be able to prepare themselves at the Ministry for a comprehensive, quality, fair and correct answer. At the beginning of its term of office, the government announced quite a bit loudly that it would strengthen economic diplomacy. This has also led to some organizational changes in government departments, but unfortunately we do not know in public whether and how much economic diplomacy after two and a half years of this government has already been reflected in major business activities of the Slovenian economy abroad. Therefore, the question is: Has the government taken this project seriously, or has it relied on the wrong people and also the wrong countries? Mr Borut Pahor, Prime Minister of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, has called for the biggest representative of Slovenian economic diplomacy, who has been in a hurry to visit Libya and the public in recent years to explain how they are great friends with dictator Gaddafi and, on the other hand, there has been no business in Libya. Gaddafi, who is a tyrant and dictator with whom our President of the Government has also celebrated the anniversary of the coup, has been killing Libyans like a fluke for the last days. Just as it was shameful for the Slovenian state to associate with Gaddafi, our economic diplomacy in Libya ended shamefully. With hundreds of millions of state guarantees, a company would certainly work and compete for various transactions abroad, not just the SCT, which the Government is covering its way in one way or another, but we know where the SCT is today, before the collapse or collapse. Again, the second part of the economic diplomacy of the Slovenian government is lobbying with the President of the Government or the President of the Republic of Serbia, Mr Dodik. At that time, the president of the government lobbyed for a road company from Maribor, which is also in bankruptcy. The President of Dodik, who is insinuating himself to the Dayton Agreement and who is reviving himself to peace in Bosnia and Herzegovina, is not at all accepted by some European Union countries as their interlocutor. That's why I'm asking Minister Zbogar: What is the framework for Slovenian economic diplomacy? We rely on totalitarian and dictatorial countries that have human rights violations written down on their flag, but in view of these patterns offered to us today by Libya and Gaddafi? How can such dictatorships and authoritarian regimes be expected at all? And finally, I'm asking the Minister: How does he assess economic diplomacy in this mandate? I expect an oral response when the Minister is present at the meeting. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u164	Thank you. On Mr Petk's proposal that the National Assembly hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Foreign Affairs to his question on the matter, the National Assembly will therefore receive an answer at the next meeting. I'm sorry. Mr Franc Jurša will now place a Member Minister without a portfolio responsible for the local self-government and regional development of Mrs Duša Trbec Bučan. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u165	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings to the secretary, ministers, colleagues and colleagues! I will ask the question about the formation of municipal committees and commissions of municipal councils and the exercise of control over the provisions of the Law on Local Self-Government. The last local elections were held last October. In most Slovene municipalities, enabling activities were carried out normally. The municipal councils were set up, appointed by the Commissions for Mandated Questions, Elections and Appointments, democratically preparing procedures for the formation of municipal committees and commissions, which were also approved or elected at meetings of municipal councils. The Commission's mandate questions, elections and appointments, as well as mayors or mayors, have generally respected the results of the elections and the will of the electorate and electorate. In some congregations, however, there have been new self - servitudes that do not respect people’s will. I will present the case of one of the Slovenian municipalities, but unfortunately it is not the only one. Despite the election score of 11: 10 saints or saints in favour of the new coalition, this represents 52.4% to 47.6%, the majority in the committee of 7 members or members appointed 6 members of the coalition and only one member or member of the opposition, only in two cases this is a ratio of 5:2. The Commissions have a ratio of 4:1. In order to confirm the "great power of their own", under the terms of the slogans, five representatives of the coalition and only two representatives of the opposition were appointed to the seven-member Supervisory Committee. However, the Presidential or Vice-Presidential functions have all been allocated to the coalition, except as Chairman of the Supervisory Board. There are 71 members or members in all committees, 57 of which are allocated to the coalition and only 14 seats are awarded to the opposition. One of the parties has two saints and has 17 members in these bodies, saying 3 more than the whole opposition. My question follows: Do you believe that such conduct is in line with the rules or that political stakeholders have taken into account political hygiene? Who and how can protect the interests of the electorates who have elected parties or lists of opposition saints? And the third: What legal institutions can prevent or sanction such abuses?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u166	Thank you. Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u167	With regard to questions relating to the establishment of working bodies of the municipal council and the municipal supervisory committee following regular local elections, it should first be stressed that local self-government in Slovenia is based on the constitutional principle of the division of power and the principles of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The Law on Local Self-Government provides a framework for the organisation of this body of municipalities by not restricting to the municipal Council the right to self-regulation of this area in accordance with the right to local self-government and the principle of self-organisation. In accordance with this principle, the law governs the formation of the working bodies of the municipal council as an option, not an obligation that the municipal council takes advantage of, provided that the statute of the municipality provides for permanent and occasional committees and committees of the municipal council, their composition and the field of work, and further regulates the functioning of the working bodies of the municipal council. The law provides that committees and commissions may consist of other citizens in addition to members of the municipal council, but less than half of the members and that the working body of the municipal council shall be chaired by a member of the municipal council. The working bodies of the municipal council deal with matters of the work area of the municipal council and give suggestions and initiatives to the municipal council, as well as regulatory initiatives. Regulation of the composition and organisation of the work of the Supervisory Committee of the municipality shall also leave the law to the statute of the municipality and the functioning of the Supervisory Committee shall be governed in more detail by the Rules of Procedure of the Supervisory Committee. The Local Self-Government Act on the composition of the Supervisory Board shall govern the reasons for the early termination of membership in the Supervisory Board and the incompatibilities of membership in other functions in the municipality, by employment in the municipal administration and by the management of organisations that are beneficiaries of the municipal budget. The tasks of the Supervisory Board shall be laid down by law. Taking into account the electoral results or the proportional representation of political parties in relation to the result of elections to the municipal council in the composition of the working bodies of the municipal council and also of the supervisory committee of the municipality does not fall within the legal framework, but these are frequent provisions of the statutes of the municipalities and, in particular, the rules of procedure of the municipal council. You are right not in all municipalities or after all elections, but the fact is that disregarding these relationships in the composition of the working bodies and the supervisory board is only illegal if it is contrary to the regulation. Therefore, if the statutes, as a rule of procedure of the municipal council, provide that the election results should be taken into account in the composition of the working bodies or the supervisory committee of the municipality in such a way that the minority or opposition has a relative number of seats in them, the decisions of the municipal council which do not take this into account may be contested. However, they can be tried for action in administrative proceedings.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u168	Thank you. Would you like a supplement, Mr. Jurša? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u169	I would like an additional answer: Can the county’s closest relatives or mayors also participate in the municipal election commission?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u170	I believe that I have already answered this question; in the event that such a provision would be made in the Statute, however, it can. In the event that a person considers that he has a legal interest, this can be encouraged by an action in a legal dispute.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u171	Thank you. Mr Aleksander Zorn will ask the question of the Minister for Education and Sport, Dr Igor Lukšić. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! I'm asking you: At what stage is the call for proposals to co-finance investments in new buildings and upgrade primary schools? It is the fact that the possibilities for obtaining state resources are now stifling and that we have been waiting for this invitation to tender for some time. And that those schools that find themselves in a situation of anxiety and call for swift action are, because of the impossible conditions, and are dangerous to the health of the students. I'm specifically talking about Lithium Elementary School, which you also know, so I didn't surprise you with a specific question, because you were 23. 6. 2009 there and called for a full renovation of the school. And not to speak in just three days; it is, of course, a venerable school. The building was built in 1903, from 1904 to 1906, there was a district court there, from 1912 to 1912, a basic school was really built as an excuse, otherwise there was a court and then a military hospital and also a prison. From 1940 to 1945, the SS was the center of the school and in the nearby building, where the school is now the centre of the Gestapo. Then, after 1945, there were also some prisons and, of course, the Uprising after a normal sequence, as historically follows. Since 1947 the lower secondary school has actually been inhabited there, yet there have been prisons. After all, the judiciary existed all the time, and it shuts down, as it were, until the day before yesterday. But to make matters even worse, recently, two years ago, in a basement where all these famous prisons, Gestapo, SS and everything else, they discovered certain kinds of dances that I could barely read because they were in Latin: penicillin, for example, I also know, asperbolis, ulcladium, cladosporium, trichoderma, alternaria, fusarium, flour, absidia. They are all very toxic, and we already have children’s diseases, as well as those who teach there. So I ask you, because some schools are extremely dependent on your invitation to tender, your funds: When will you be able to do that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u173	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u174	Mr Vice-President, President, colleague of the Minister, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, and above all, Mr Alexander Zorn, Commissioner! You will not believe this, but I signed this invitation to tender on Friday, so that it will be published in the Official Journal on 4 March and at the same time all the necessary documentation or information necessary for the invitation to tender. I don't want to trigger too many appetites for the congregations. The law adopted before the 2008 elections makes it impossible to finance or co-finance schools and kindergartens, as it was in force until 2008. This will only take into account some schools, which will have a 100% chance of obtaining money on the call for proposals — or 80% of the VAT in the municipality. This seems bad to us, so we are already in agreement with the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Service for Local Self-Government in order to change this law at the point in order to go back to the previous way of co-financing or tendering these funds. For kindergartens, 7.5 million are foreseen in the next three years and 14 million euros in investment in primary school over the next three years of additional money. Those investments that are still running and will run out, they're not listed here. The main criterion is the demographic picture – sorry, not the main, first criterion, for example, is a demographic image of 22%. The second criterion is the level of the prepared project and other documentation, which is expected to cover 28 %. The main criterion is the lack of space in kindergartens or schools and the assessment of the earthquake risk of facilities, primary schools. It is said that such schools would have the advantage of at least 50 % over those where new construction is only concerned, but there is no such threat. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u175	Thank you. You want a supplement, Mr. Zorn, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u176	Thank you very much. This seems very good to me, as you said, also because some mayors are mayors of small towns that have little money and don't go to a new school when it's necessary, but rather put it there because it's cheaper than Mercator, even Interspar and Mercury and Lidl, and now I've been gone for a week now, maybe there's Hofer. But the school isn't. And we know that they have to put it there, because you also claimed when you were visiting, that this school needs a new building. It is also necessary to say that this school is attended by 500 students and that it is one of the best schools in Slovenia with all kinds of awards, while at the same time it has the worst possible premises in Slovenia. If we say "healthy spirit in a healthy body" and if I refer to what I said earlier, what was at this school was on the spiritual side, and it is therefore inappropriate and is also physical because it is poisoned, literally, with mushrooms, then it seems to me that this school is necessarily appropriate or I hope that you will give it preferential consideration when you choose the means. However, as I know, the calculations were already made there, and the pre-investment procedure has expired. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u177	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u178	Thank you very much for this additional question or comment. I am glad that there is some pressure here in the National Assembly on the municipalities to do what they can in the field of education and to put education among the main priorities. Regrettably, there are quite a few such schools in the game that are at great risk, some thanks to the lax conduct of the congregation’s leadership, so that now it would be difficult to prejudge, given that the funds are very few. I am sure that this team, which is at the Ministry, will be able to judge and decide on these criteria set out in the invitation to tender, so that they will actually come to the priorities of that school, those needs which fall within those criteria. I hope we can both be satisfied with that then. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u179	Thank you. Mr Jakob Preseknik will ask the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u180	Thank you so much for saying that. Mr Vice-President, Minister, Minister, colleague and colleague! Mr Minister for Environment and Space, I have the following question for you and I would like to comment earlier. That it is a well-organised geodetic activity is certainly a condition for well-managed real estate; therefore, one of the conditions for regulated real estate. Secondly, the conditions for carrying out geodetic activities must be clearly defined, and the prices of geodetic services provided by these geodetic undertakings must also be determined reasonably and on the basis of the procedures necessary for their implementation. It is known that this part of the geodetic activity carried out by geodetic undertakings is part of the free market and therefore the State must not regulate, on the basis of the European Directive on services in the internal market and the provisions transferred under this Directive, by setting tariffs which the service provider must comply with, unless otherwise specified by the public interest. And here we have a number of services, which are also provided as market activities, and the activity is regulated in some ways by the State, such as legal tariffs and some others, while geodetic tariffs are simply determined on the basis of a decision or price line set by the Management Board of the Chamber of Engineers of Slovenia. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Minister: Do you agree with such a method of determining geodetic tariffs as is currently in force when the height of geodetic services is determined only within the geodetic character? And secondly: Are you preparing any measures to unify and regulate the price of geodetic services? This would enable real estate owners to manage their property more quickly and in particular cheaper land registers. In doing so, I am referring to a certain part of the price-setting activity at the state level, not only at the geodetic level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u181	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u182	Thank you. Your Honor! The answer is expected. No one is most pleased if matters are regulated in cehos. Because this is essentially ceho regulation, I don't know if what we call free market design is exactly what we call free market design. At least two things should be that it is competition and free design. Regulated prices caused problems due to different property values and different economic possibilities of individual environments. Prices can be too high for someone, not for someone. As has been seen recently, in recent times, especially in the case of public procurement, these prices are already falling to certain limits where the geodetic profession says that the quality and professional performance of the geodetic service is at risk. Thus, on the other hand, there are comments that these prices are already too low. However, the main reason for unmeasured public infrastructure is not only in the price of geodetic services, as these represent a small proportion of the resources needed to remedy the situation. Most of the costs are compensations to landowners for which public infrastructure is carried out. The other is private property. We believe that the most appropriate pricing for geodetic services on the market remains obvious. It's a real market. With greater concern for the regulation of the land cadastre, land register status of all real estate owners and, in particular, property owned or managed by the State and municipalities, the costs of geodetic services will be reduced. The problem of the price of geodetic services today arises mainly because of the inherited unregulated situation of the past period or, we can say, enough work on the market. It takes a lot of money to get it fixed. Our ministry is preparing to simplify procedures and thus to reduce prices for geodetic services. Well, less will have to be done for the same task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u183	Thank you. Would you like a refill? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u184	Thank you very much for your answer. Otherwise, this response was expected, but nevertheless: you have already pointed out that all these unmeasured infrastructure facilities are also, I am also talking about, the consequences of the certainly high prices of geodetic services, the shortages on the other hand of experts in this area. Of course, other problems are compensations. I'm aware of that. On the other hand, we have, as has been further established in the last period, when we find extremely serious difficulties in registering and mass valuation properties in the country. It's not so much an evaluation problem here. According to my assessment, the problem here is largely the unresolved dose, the unresolved land book cases, where basic geodetic services must be performed in advance. We're back at geodetic services. It is certainly assessed in the section that many geodetic services are overpricedly high and that this also does not result in a dose and the handling of land registers. I therefore find it clear to me that it would be good, as in the case of legal tariffs, for the purposes of calculation, to set certain tariffs on which to give opinions, consent or anything [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] would be agreed, including by the State; on behalf of the State, certainly the Minister for the Environment and Space in charge of these matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u185	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u186	Thank you very much. On this issue of yours, it came to my mind that it might be good to invite you to our house, but perhaps we and our GURSA colleagues will have a conversation about these matters and together we will try to see which way this matter could be improved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u187	Thank you. Mr Mirko Brulc will also put the question to the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Good-bye! Vogršček was built in 1984 and there is no irrigation system in the lower Vipavska valley. More than 100 farms will benefit from the incendiary system and use will be necessary very quickly, as already in March we have frozen and saved agricultural crops. In 2007, a malfunction was detected, the leaking of the barrier and the water level on this container had to be reduced by 7 metres. All functions of the Accumulation Lake Vogršček are carried out by the ARSO, which is also responsible for this. It's about maintenance, safety, partitions, regular management and stuff. For emergency recovery, cca is required. Three hundred and fifty thousand euros. Less than a month ago, he was Minister of Agriculture in Goriška and also looked at the barrier and became aware of the defect. He immediately acknowledged that he was ready to provide half of the funds for emergency recovery so that this barrier and irrigation system could also function properly. I'm asking: When will the Ministry of Environment and Space be in charge, probably, of the ARSO, to begin removing the barrier? The only comfort in all this is that water permission will probably be granted to Vipava Agriculture in a short time, but this does not mean that the irrigation system will also work. Mr. Minister: Are you also prepared to provide an urgent half of the funds? I am not an expert to know if the EUR 350 000 is really enough, but I know that the final recovery of two to three million is a huge resource. Thank you very much for your answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u189	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I agree with you, a great deal; but for a little bit I am more optimistic. But let me try to answer it in full. Following a found leak on the air side of the barrier, further investigations were carried out towards the end of 2007 on the bulkheads and inspections to detect the leaking of the entire irrigation pipeline under the barrier, the poor condition of the removal facility and the irrigation pipeline due to the durability of the materials, which triggered the consideration of the condition of the floor release or the need to investigate as soon as possible the degree of durability of the material to the floor discharge tube. From also this high forecast of numbers. In 2008, intervention remedial works were carried out, the closure of the irrigation tube and the removal of water to irrigate on the floor drain pipe to ensure the possibility of irrigation. The intervention works were financed in proportion to 50 : 50 on the basis of an agreement between the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food and the ILO. For the purpose of the removal of the barrier, an investigation was carried out in 2009 with the aim of determining the actual state of the tube and assessing the duration of the pipe. In 2010, the ground pipe examiner envisaged another additional investigation in order to better assess the duration of the pipe and thus link the dynamics of the definitive removal of the barrier as well as the related costs. Unfortunately, this additional review has not been carried out because of the Ministry of Agriculture's opposition. At the same time, the geomechanical barrier monitoring operator proposed as the first remedial measure the injection of an unused water pipe for irrigation in the bulkhead. There has also been no implementation of this measure. In 2010, more precisely April 2010, the ILO acquired a pre-investment design for the rehabilitation of the buildings on the Vogršček reservoir. The design dealt with five different options for the rehabilitation of facilities on the barrier. The ILO has chosen a minimum of EUR 869 000 500, which is close, almost a million. In the framework of this barrier, phased implementation, injection of a dead irrigation tube, rehabilitation of hydromechanical equipment, re-examination of the soil discharge tube, static assessments and instructions for the use of floor release prisons are provided. The Ministry of Agriculture does not agree with the solution chosen in the work relating to the determination of the percentage of co-financing of recovery. With a water permit for the use of water from the reservoir, a percentage of the cost-sharing of regular investment maintenance and investment costs is determined. This ratio is around 85% at the expense of the Ministry of Agriculture and about 15% at the ILO. We've got multiple variants made. After the first option, the ILO insists on cost-sharing as set out in the water permit – 84.5% of the Ministry of Agriculture and 15.5 ILO. Option B – ILO and the Ministry of Agriculture will agree on a percentage of the cost-sharing of the rehabilitation costs. The ILO shall have the resources for recovery under 15.5% of the share provided by the Water Fund programme. After harmonising the percentage of cost-sharing, both ministries will approach the execution of the public procurement and the execution of the recovery. We at the Ministry think that the basic division is 84.5 : 15.5 law, because we do not need a large barrier to the anti-floating action. For protection against flooding, 15,5 % of the volume of the restraint is sufficient for us, and all else was intended for irrigation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u191	Thank you. Would you like a supplement, Mr. Brulc? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u192	Thank you very much. This is a unique retainer in Slovenia, I think there is something similar about Goričkem. It was built for agriculture to work, it is not an anti-floating and different barrier, and I do not accept that we will have a water cabinet there without soaking agricultural crops. Now the level is down by 7 meters, which means we have a pipeline right at the bottom, full of mud. Soaking against ice cream, when there has to be a lot of pressure to make things work, will be impossible. In the summer we water the crops with cold water from the bottom of the reservoir. I would only ask, Minister, but I would no longer torture you tonight, agree on both ministries, approach this most urgent rehabilitation, that the matter will work, because otherwise the entire Lower Vipava Valley will not be able to produce any fruit, no vegetables and no other crops. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u193	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u194	I may not have made it clear enough that 15.5% of the funds reserved are certainly sufficient for that amount, as you mentioned above, for half the smaller. But I wanted to say that the problem is broader and that it will have to be tackled once. I don't think there's a problem in providing what it takes to flood, I'm afraid there's a bigger problem than you've figured out, that it's agriculture, for agricultural money. [[...]] I think we'll be able to find some kind of agreement with our fellow Jew because we're very much in a good relationship in the future for this second step. For that first step, I don't see any big problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u195	Thank you. Mr Ivan Grill will also raise the question of the question of the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u196	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Mr Vice President, distinguished ministers, ministers! Dear Minister, I have two questions for you today, and I would like to begin with the first, again touching this increasingly disorderly area, at least it is immediately detectable, these are chimneys. Look, the more people realize that I'm talking to you myself, otherwise in Parliament, I get more letters, more additional evidence, more documents, and this area is really messy. However, I was, I can say, uncomfortably surprised that the State, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and thus your Ministry, do not respect the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia, does not take into account the judgement of the Administrative Court. On a question that I've already asked you, you mentioned at the time that there are no open cases, but apparently the officials misinformed you. I'm sure it's officials who are working against it in the background and probably don't support you with the right information. This is specifically the case for the two judgments of the Administrative Court for the Municipality of Škofljica and Trebnje, which, already in 2009, annulled the award of concessions obtained on the basis of false data. See, this has been received several times in this government, so concessions were granted on the basis of false information to the physiotherapists' chamber, which Mrs Friederika Kresal said was run, and here too, on the basis of false information, the concession was granted to an unjustifiable smoker's company. And despite the fact that this concession was abolished in 2009 by the judgement of the Administrative Court and was again called in September 2010 by both the Government and indirectly your ministry, that a new decision should be forwarded within 90 days, as I am aware, has not yet been made. The affected company, which, in fact, was unjustifiably excluded from this concession procedure at the time, is now suing the State, and that is justifiable. It is to be expected, at least so the District Court has already called for the case to be implemented and it is enforceable that the State will pay for the penalty. And I'm even more interested in this: On what basis and who is now providing chimney services in the Municipality of Škofljica and also in Trebnje? For those who received the concession at that time had this concession unlawfully or should not be in force at all. So there's a lot of anomalies here, and I'm not surprised that these services are probably inquality, and that's why we have so many chimney fires or chimney fires. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u197	Thank you. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u198	Your Honor, thank you so much for asking. I think smoking is a problem for all of us, but somehow in this story we are more coordinated than not, but maybe there are other procedures here and I have fresh information on this. As we said, many procedures are completed, 209 concessions for 194 chimney areas are awarded, in some areas there is more than one operator. And in the distribution phase, a lot of administrative disputes were triggered, and it wasn't the only one. The story of Trebnje and Škofljica is just before the end, but maybe it explained a little, just like they gave me what was going on. As soon as the judgment was received by the Administrative Court imposing a re-opening procedure for the selection of the concessionaire for the chimney area of Trebnja and Škofljica, the Ministry initiated activities to appoint an expert commission for the evaluation of tenders. That's the process. In accordance with Article 16 of the Regulation on the manner, subject and conditions for the implementation of the compulsory economic public service for the measurement, inspection and cleaning of combustion plants, smoke pipes and air ducts for the protection of the environment and the efficient use of energy, for the protection of human health and for the protection against fire, that is the full name of this document. Following this document, the Commission consists of two members from ministries, one from the Ministry of Environment and Space, one from the Ministry of Defence and one from the Chamber of Commerce and the Chamber of Commerce, it is said, a multi-member commission. I must say that in this case, the appointment of members of the commission has taken place to unforeseen congestions, not on the side of the ministries – I would not go into detail – so we have not been able to conclude the procedure yet, but this problem has also been resolved. The proposal for members of the Commission has just been sent to the government procedure. We expect the government to appoint these members in this week, on Thursday, if not next week, so that they can collect and review the offers. Now, whoever's doing the chimney service, I don't know how to answer you right now, obviously the one who was wrongly chosen because something is just being done. But I would say that personally, I am not very happy about this inherited story, which is formally fairly well-saved, although substantively – perhaps these words will not satisfy someone in public – is not as saved as I would like to. We are trying within the framework that we have, as well as everything that we can change, even in this matter to solve. I have to say that by email I get a lot of comments from the dissatisfied, these comments are huge daily. On the other hand, those who do so ensure that everything is in the best order and if there are inadequate concessionaires, this is a small share – well, so, flat. That's a big concern, and I'm not going to talk about the staffing problems in our house because they're general things, but we're going to try to do what we can. We are looking for some solutions, namely, the price is not that low, I must say that it is comparable to the price of the researcher, even though I had severe problems when we were applying this price because they wanted it higher. At the same time, we are not sure how these controls are carried out. There's so much work to be done here. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u199	Mr. Grill, would you like to complete your response? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u200	Thank you very much. Mr Minister, I fully agree with you that this story is not easy, that you have inherited it, and I believe that you face many of the problems that officials in your ministry are likely to cause you every day. They're the ones who cooked this story. I am not in charge, on the basis of the Administrative Court’s legal judgment, of setting up a commission to resolve the matter, why it was not immediately in 2009 for the re-election of the concessionaire on the basis of the invitation to tender and that the concession was made null and void because it was null and void. And now a hypothetical problem or question. Surely he is now providing chimney services in these two municipalities to someone who does not have a formal legal concession, which means that he provides services unlawfully. What would happen if an accident were to occur? Who might be responsible for the sloppy work of those there, such as cleaning smoke extinguishers, combustion plants, and so on. This means that we are allowing or allowing the Ministry an illegal situation. Here is also confirmed the question or numerous warnings on the ground that you have already set up a commission for professional supervision, which, if I recall correctly, has two members. See, Mr Minister, with two members, it will certainly not be possible to do this quality for all of Slovenia, for the first thing is, this commission should first examine the situation in Škofljica and Trebnje, where it is evident that matters are going illegally. This job will need to be strengthened, and most likely those who are doing a lot of work in the background in this area, according to the local word, "steel". Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u201	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u202	Thank you. I am very aware of this, but according to our human resources skills, there are already two members. Well, I'm glad this story ends at least. And it's my opinion, too, whether it's me who belongs to our ministry. I would seek a solution more in this direction to belong to another ministry, and that ours is just the criteria that must be, but not the control and the matter. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u203	Mr. Grill, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u204	Thank you very much. Dear Mr. Secretary! Although I firmly believe that tomorrow evening the coalition will not support my proposal to hold a broad debate on this acute problem, to shed light on the whole issue and to seek solutions and, last but not least, to find possible proposals to which the Ministry would refer. Since this answer or this debate has not provided satisfactory answers in this limited period of time, I therefore propose that, Madam President, we hold one in-depth general debate on this question at one of the next meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u205	Mr Grill's proposal to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and Space to his question of the mission will be decided by the National Assembly tomorrow, 1 March 2011, in the framework of the votes. Mr Zvonko Lah will ask the Minister of Culture a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u206	Dear Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen of the Minister! I would like to ask the Minister a question concerning archaeological heritage or construction in the area of archaeological heritage. In the European Convention on the Protection of Architecture Heritage, the archaeological heritage is a source of European common memory and a common heritage for all human society. It should therefore be protected, but the price of its protection should not be paid to the public when the costs for it are linked to the benefits of private interests. Those who benefit from spatial intervention projects are also responsible for maintaining their heritage. In the case of the construction of the pipeline, it is certainly not a private interest, but a broader social interest. The Act on the Protection of Cultural Heritage provides that the costs of prior archaeological research necessary for the release of building land for construction are to be borne from the State budget: if the land is not registered as an archaeological site and if the registered archaeological site is a natural person and builds a dwelling for its own needs on the building site within the settlement or if non-profit dwellings are built. The pipeline is also built by natural persons for their own needs and in the public interest, and these possibilities are that the costs of archaeological research are not borne by the State. Tell me: Why?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u207	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u208	Thank you. Dear Member, you have already correctly summarised that article, which provides for co-financing by an investor or a country, is Article 34, in previous archaeological research. You have already identified that the financing of those research is for natural persons who are intended for housing, for their own needs and for non-profit dwellings or in cases where the land is not registered and is an archaeological site and then, at the time of construction or other intervention, archaeological remains are discovered despite a preliminary survey of this area of spatial act. And some other extensions were laid down in this law, which means that they are investors or that the state is covering those investments or those previous studies, as defined by the Housing Act. But housing is defined here slightly wider, namely building in the scope of the plot to build housing and related infrastructure lines or connections to economic public infrastructure on such a building site – if it belongs to one another, of course. This is said to be the case if residential construction also involves those connections that are going on with it. This is also the case. The question of a specific water supply; it is always the investor who covers the costs, but in the case of a water supply, if it is within the building land for the construction of the building. Of course, there are other archaeological studies covered by the State or mainly the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage or the competent centre for preventive archaeology, in accordance with the first indent of this Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. Last year, for example, approximately 900 cases of archaeological preliminary research amounting to approximately EUR 600,000 were covered by the State, by the fact that, of course, the country also covered approximately EUR million in the preparation of state spatial acts. Perhaps we can see the question within your question why the state does not also cover the costs of preparing municipal spatial acts, OPPNs. As I recall, when this law came into existence years ago, I believe even the municipalities were promised this, and then, apparently, in the evolution of the adoption of this law – and I think that this law was passed in 2008 – it moved to the Ministry or to the municipalities and to the Ministry of Culture, which takes over only state spatial plans. As I say, here the country has put itself on the absolute protection of public good, that is to say archaeology as such, and, in fact, with all exceptional care, it is seen that the law has also been prepared by strong experts in the field of archaeology, which are a very fragmented state forward when there is really no knowledge of who is drinking and who pays, trying to standardize the country even the network after Slovenia of previous research. By thinking that one day this process will be so complete that we will know what is underneath us and that it will not be necessary for any housing or construction to re-examine previous research.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u209	Mr. Lah. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u210	Look, I understand this law by paying prior archaeological research for the release of the building land of this burden, if it is previously applied to the programme of the Ministry of Culture or the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, that it is possible for the State to finance it. Only for building land, as you said before, for building buildings on building plots. The construction of the water supply is not on building sites, so a problem arises. But it's in the public interest. Look at the case. The Municipality of Šmarješke Toplice would like to build a water supply to the village of Vinji Vrh in the length of 3 thousand 900 meters. The route takes place to a greater extent in the road body, which was built 20 years ago with embankments, digs. The value of the water supply is 850 000 euros, the route takes place on the work of a well-known archaeological area, where the cost of archaeological research is a million 450 000 euros, and part of an unknown archaeological area where preliminary archaeological research is needed and if excavations are found to be necessary, it will be an additional cost. Let me repeat: Construction of a water supply of 850 thousand, archaeological research of a million 450 thousand. The municipality must adopt the equipment programme, establish a municipal contribution for individuals and then pay for this municipal contribution. So they're building natural persons in the public interest, in the road. Since healthy drinking water is a basic good, research should then be covered from the state budget in some way. Archaeological research costs are about half of the annual budget of the entire municipality, but they are not yet [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u211	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u212	I agree that it is high and I must admit that the costs we know in those cases, when the country is also covering, when it comes to public infrastructure in the field of culture; for example, at present in Ptuj, in Ljubljana and anywhere, you would say, in your case. But archaeologists have agreed that they want to have what has been stored underground and not leave to the craftsmen of ignorance what is beneath us. It is not just the water supply that there will be no misunderstandings, including public roads or roads, municipal garages, including underground garages, where individuals are not only housing that is justified, but also other infrastructure interventions where the investor must, if he wants to create something, pay the costs when it comes to excavations. [[...]] However, in certain cases, as referred to in Article 34, the State may make amends. But it's not the same as digging up just that probably raises the budget like you said yourself. I was just wondering if maybe for investors this is actually a major obstacle. But I have to admit, because I also think because it pulls construction, especially sometimes when the procedure at the beginning, when the law entered into force, it took place slightly slower, with a lot of bureaucracy, roles and so on. [[...]] Now things have kind of calmed down, and even with a certain amount that is growing, because at the beginning of the marriage, people have not yet been aware of how, say, certain applications have been put in place. Now it's kind of calmed down, and from the implementation of the Cultural Heritage Protection Act, those funds that are still growing are booked, but I think they'll settle at some border that won't go in over a million. But we intend to open the marriage. Otherwise, there was no desire and will to change the law at this very point at which you pointed out, but perhaps it will also be taken into account because we want to change it in completely different places, which also hinder life, not only the normal work of people, but also other institutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u213	Thank you. Mr. Lah, do you have a procedural proposal?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u214	Yes, given that the issue is quite acute, I would suggest that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, consideration may be added to what the Minister herself has said that this law should be amended. In fact, if the law already says or the European Convention says that those individuals who have a private interest or profit are to pay for it. However, in the event that this question is resolved on the building site, whether the investor will later have a significant cost, it is possible for the State to pay prior archaeological research, where it is determined what the costs for the investor will then be, I think, it would also be appropriate that where public utility infrastructure facilities do not require that the land be constructed so that the agricultural land can be known by the investor in advance what the costs will be. In some cases, however, the municipality must put in the budget a 50 % higher cost for archaeological research than for an investment alone, for excavations. However, if the congregation had known earlier how much these excavations would cost, that prior archaeological research would have been paid, and that the state might have paid for it, it would probably not have decided to build on this site, where the cost is so much higher. It would be wise for the investor, in the case of the real law, to know, in the case of this building where buildings and infrastructure are built for certain purposes, how much — when the land is built. In this case, however, no and certain costs arise. The municipality financed a building permit project and eventually received an offer from the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, which is significantly larger than the investment itself. And the thing is blocking. I think that the archaeological heritage is a common, state problem and that here the state should listen when it comes to public interest, because the pipeline is built in public good, in a road where the area has already been degraded and in such cases, I think that the Government should or should propose this change of law and allow the state to pay.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u215	On the proposal by Mr Zvonk Lah to hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Culture to his question, the National Assembly will decide tomorrow, 1 March 2011, in the framework of the vote. Mr Marjan Bezjak, Minister of Economy, who is absent today, will ask the question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u216	Thank you for your word, chairman. Welcome to the minister, the minister, the MPs and the MPs! I would like to raise an oral question to Minister of Economy Darja Radic. Dear Minister Darja Radic! Recently, in Slovenia, the Commissioner for Internal Market and Services, Mr Michael Barnier, was in a hurry to visit the European Union on a work visit. He presented a proposal for a single market act of the European Union, in which more than 50 measures would create a strong and successful European single market that would create a favourable economic environment and new jobs and address social protection and environmental sustainability issues. Minister of Economy Darja Radic, I ask you: Have you studied these suggestions? What do you think of them? Are you going to make any new proposals? Minister Darja Radic, I also ask you: Do you intend to implement any of these proposals briefly in Slovenian legislation? Unfortunately, the Minister is not here today, so in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, I would like the Minister to give an oral reply at the next meeting of the National Assembly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u217	Okay. Mr Laszlo Göncz will ask the Minister of Justice a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u218	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen of the Minister, distinguished colleagues! I will raise the question of the question of compensation to Minister Zalar. In view of the fact that people are still complaining massively about the failure to pay or the inconsistent payment of compensation due to the damage caused by the G1/3 State road, it is regrettable that the consequences of the legal incoherence of this problem have not yet been seen to be over. This is a matter of compensation. A half-second year ago, the total amount was estimated at EUR 14 million, which the State should fairly and fairly distribute among around 2 000 injured persons along the G1/3 state road between Maribor and the state border with the Republic of Hungary, who were in fact exposed to the traffic of heavy trucks night and day. The Supreme Court ruled that people living along the G1/3 road were entitled to compensation, thus laying the legal basis for the State's liability for compensation. First, the State offered to settle and thus avoided any additional costs due to compensation, and later the payment of compensation was halted, explaining that there was no money. The proceedings and hearings in the courts shall take place, but when the court finds that individuals are entitled to compensation, the State Advocate shall, as a rule, bring an action before the Supreme Court on the basis of my laziness. In this way, the State is trying to avoid payment of compensation and the procedures are delayed until unreasonable deadlines. According to my information, up to now only 20% of all beneficiaries have received compensation, and the rest are unfortunately not. I ask you, Mr. Minister: When will the State pay compensation to the residents who have filed compensation claims for excessive noise damage at the said state road and have their compensation determined by judicial judgements or judicial or extrajudicial settlements? When will the replacement of the windows and doors on the apartment houses on the same road chosen in the laboratory be completed?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u219	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u220	Thank you very much, honourable Member, for a question that undoubtedly deserves a clear answer. We all know this problem, which has been present for some time now, and which has plagued or caressed many people, there is no doubt about it. There is no doubt, too, that those who are beneficiaries of excessive noise to compensation, that certain compensations are, of course, theirs. In this matter, however, the question was raised as a key issue, for the first time, at what level they belong, and for the second time, whether they also belong to them for periods that could be shown to be subject to so-called limitation periods. These are two fundamental legal issues that are resolved by the courts, not resolved by the Government. And it is not true that what occasionally appears as misinformation in the media, that the government does not pay these damages because of the lack of money or the lack of political will. That's not true. There are no obstacles. There are others. Indeed, in 2009, the Supreme Court established a so-called precedent decision on the amount of compensation belonging to beneficiaries under this Title. On this basis, settlements, both judicial and out-of-court, began to be concluded. These settlements, these friendly ways, the solution, the contentious claims were considerable. In total, more than 800 such applications were granted. However, in 2010 the Supreme Court changed its decision. And it changed it markedly, for about 40% of the lower compensation it began to recognise by this judgment, because it laid down the essential criteria underlying the assessment of this compensation. The complainant, therefore, who received this judgment from the Supreme Court, brought a constitutional complaint against this judgment of the Supreme Court. It claims that it violated the constitutional right to equality or equal protection of rights. In the Constitutional Court, we asked ourselves and received an answer that this constitutional appeal is not a priority under the Rules of Procedure of the Constitutional Court. It is therefore very difficult to predict within what time frame we can expect the decision of the Constitutional Court in this matter. This is, of course, one of the key issues on which a further decision by the State can be drawn. For the state must do nothing but respect the law. the highest courts are the ones in the country that say what is right and what is right. So here's the main problem. Another problem that has arisen in the meantime is the above-mentioned objection to obsolescence. Nor in this part is the final decision of the highest court. However, the Supreme Court has already allowed a review of this issue, which means that it will be identified, and this will certainly be known in a relatively short period of time. It is only by clarifying these two essential issues as to what is the objection to obsolescence and what is the basis for the assessment of the amount of compensation, and in both cases the decision of the highest judicial authorities in the Republic of Slovenia will only be possible from this point onward to continue with the friendly resolution of these problems and the payment of compensations for which funds will be provided in the State budget, as provided for in all the other compensations which the State must pay under the provisions of the Constitution and the laws.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u221	Mr. Gonch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u222	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary, for these explanations. I think there is no doubt that we need to stress, and therefore I thank you for the fact that neither the money nor the political will to solve this problem has been lost, which is undoubtedly an incentive for those who rightly expect it. I would point out another side, which was only indirectly mentioned, namely, you were talking about criteria. The criteria must undoubtedly be set at all levels equally and transparent. Regrettably, some, many times neighbors, have received or already received any compensation or compensation, while others, who have done the same or similar formally, have not received it yet. I understand that no one is affected by the Constitutional Court, and I am not asking what priority this is, but I think it is a population that is already missing for demographic reasons here and there, especially age, and it is important and necessary, in my opinion, that some epilogue should only occur in a short time, not in 10 or 15 years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u223	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u224	Thank you very much. Dear Member, I pledge to you and to everyone affected in this place that, as Minister, I will do everything possible to speed up these procedures. I'm sure we won't talk about flight, but we'll probably talk about a few months. In such a case, when it comes to mass claims or even court proceedings, the courts would always conduct these proceedings on the basis of the model case and also on the principle of priority. In this case, this has been the case so far, and I hope it will be in the future. Once again, I stress that the Government must respect judicial decisions and that there is no basis for recognising compensation in unwarranted amounts which would not have a basis in the applicable case law. This is just a limitation laid down by our Constitution, to which all of us are bound, not least the courts themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u225	Mr Anton Kolarič will ask a question from the Minister without a portfolio responsible for local self-government and regional development.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u226	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Madam Minister, responsible for local self-government and regional development, another minister, minister, colleague, colleague! Strong local self-government allows for the highest level of direct participation in decision-making processes and is, of course, an important segment of social development. However, local communities need to be provided with sustainable and stable financial resources, which I believe must depend more on their own efforts and greater efficiency. Of course, appropriate legislation is also important. The financing of local self-government in Slovenia is now governed by the Law on the Financing of Municipalities in 2007, 2008. As a result of the study of the effects of the current Community funding system, which observes the period 2007-2009, the Slovenian municipalities were mostly adequately supported according to their stated needs, but I think only on average. Major anomalies have been shown mainly in the financing of urban municipalities, as well as municipalities established by the administrative unit. In particular, the municipalities have been greatly undervalued and have significantly higher costs than others, particularly in the field of social activities, spatial, municipal and housing matters, transport and so on. However, if the observed period were added in 2006 the picture would be significantly worse, especially with regard to the Municipality of Ljubljana. Madam Minister, in my view, it is necessary to adopt a law on amendments and additions to the Law on the Financing of Communities, or even to draft a new law. This is also foreseen in the Government's normative programme this year. I'm asking you: What activities are you carrying out and planning this year? At what stage are the preparations for changes to the law today? Thanks for the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u227	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u228	Thank you for asking. All the way from 1. 1. 2007 when the new Law on the Financing of Municipalities began to be implemented, we monitored the implementation of the law, and in particular the determination of the average costs of municipalities, on which the calculation of the appropriate consumption of each municipality and the determination of its share of income from income were dependent. At the end of 2010, as already mentioned, we also carried out an analysis of the relationship between the costs of individual groups of municipalities and their appropriate use, which is the basis for determining income from income and financial compensation and also the costs of individual programmes with revenue. The analysis showed a gap between the costs and revenues of the municipalities, and a smaller imbalance between the costs and revenues of municipalities with a higher number of children up to the age of 6. The analysis also raised the question whether the costs of the municipalities in the area where the joint public institutions in the field of culture, music education and sport were properly financed. In these days, we are also preparing additional cost-benefit analyses for these municipalities. The preparation of a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on the financing of municipalities is also planned due to the expected introduction of a property tax, which will be the income of municipalities. This inclusion is in accordance with the applicable provisions of the Community Financing Act, which are based on the assumption that the real estate tax on the amount of income will compensate the current compensation for the use of the building land. However, the fact is that the preliminary calculations of property tax revenues, mainly due to extended tax bases, show that agricultural land and forests are true, that other real estate taxes and taxes are replaced, and that different rates are also reflected in the significant higher revenues of municipalities. No matter when the property tax is introduced, the impact of this tax on the municipality's own income requires a new reflection on the appropriateness of the current income-sharing ratio and the adequacy of the current system of allocation of additional funds to municipalities. One of the important objectives of the change in the municipal funding system, which is linked to higher own incomes, is greater financial autonomy due to the less binding of municipalities to additional funds from the state budget. The provisions of the Law on the financing of municipalities affect or are implemented by the State budget. All amendments and additions to this Act by the nature of things shall enter into force with the new financial year. We have therefore first presented the starting points for the drafting of amendments to the law to the Ministry of Finance, which is responsible for the implementation of this law at national level. However, with the Ministry's principled agreement, coordination of individual solutions has already begun at the professional level. To this end, an expert working group at the level of the Local Self-Government Sector has already been established in our Service and the Local Self-Government Financing Sector in the Directorate of Budget of the Ministry of Finance. The amendment of such a law requires thorough professional treatment, intersectoral coordination of baselines, an assessment of the effects of the proposed amendments and, last but not least, coordination with all municipalities and their associations. We anticipate that the preparatory process will take place quickly enough to allow this treatment to take place on the basis of the calculated effects proposed by the amendments in May. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u229	Mr. Kolaric, would you like an additional answer?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u230	Thank you very much. I am pleased that you are preparing at the service of the Government to work seriously in this area of funding. I hope we can really get the first results or the first drafts of the law in May this year. Of course, I expect a rather gruesome debate after this is in front of us. I would point out, however, that it will probably be very difficult to put in this system, as far as I am aware of the end of almost 20 years of work in this area, also the capital city of Ljubljana, which has lost more than 50 million dollars by amending the law in 2006, after some calculations of 57 million a year. And I think it will be difficult to find a formula that would satisfy everything from the smallest congregation to the capital. My initiative and question is: Is it also considered that a special formula is put in place for the capital? Well, maybe for other municipalities, but I am particularly interested in the capital, because otherwise I can hardly imagine that with some single formula we will be able to satisfy everything and adopt a smart law on the financing of municipalities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u231	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u232	Thank you. We are also studying this option to exclude the Municipality of Ljubljana, but this is also the subject of professional efforts or search for variants.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u233	Mr Milenko Ziherl will ask the Minister of Economy, who is excusedly absent today. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u234	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice greetings to all present, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! First of all, I would like to point out that there has been a misunderstanding because the Minister essentially wanted to move my question to the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food. The question, however, concerns the quality of goods in Slovenian shops. The point is that many times it is on a shelf that is not made in a parent factory, so only the name is sold and the content is reduced. I don't mind if this is specifically marked, especially on that little leaf called the price. So, from the branch, it's cheaper than from the parent factory, and I can base that on three sets of practical cases. First, some good cases. For the first time, when I was purchasing a German vehicle of personal origin, I was satisfied with the fact that I was informed that it was from Spain, because I was informed that all the unnecessary coatings had been polished and that it was designed for the Slovenian market, it was still enough for money, so I was informed, not deceived and, of course, I took this car. The same case was then a few years later, when the car needed a woman, even more, even so a favourable price was that the car had to be purchased through a leasing, so that all the European Union residents who did not have Slovenian citizenship were excluded from the neighbouring countries as well. So this is an example of good practice. But the example of bad practice is when you're forced abroad to buy shaving cream, which really works and isn't much like the one with the mask we get on our shelves. The problem is that on our trade shelves we get washing powders that are certainly not made according to the original recipe. There is no problem that the country of origin should be designated as a lower price. Now the common part that I can also help to respond to is the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, including food articles, if only the label is original and the edge is from another country, it must be marked. This is also a future directive of the European Union, i.e. the origin of food. Slovenian buyers must be protected from the greed of trade, which only sells these labels with reduced content. This, however, can be regulated by a specific regulation by means of sub-laws to show the origin, if not the original, of a corresponding lower price.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u235	Thank you very much. Mr. Zicherl, a letter to the President of the National Assembly from the Ministry of Economy saying that their ministry is not responsible for answering your question. However, since the letter was signed by the Secretary of State, Dr. Viljem Pšeničny, the Minister must also answer your question, so I suggest that we wait for the next oral answer? [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u236	In any case, I should be given an answer by the Minister at the next meeting, because from what I have now asked, it has been seen that the issue has a bearing on trade, which falls under her ministry, not on agriculture and the food industry, which belongs to the Minister of the Jews.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u237	This is also recommended in this letter that the Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Food should provide part of the response. Mr Guido Kres will ask the Minister of Labour, Family and Social Affairs a question. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u238	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! About workers who, after the collapse of most Slovenian construction companies as well as other companies, lost their salaries, without employment and without all rights, much has already been written. This area is assisted by a humanitarian gesture, a single social supplement, and this is more than anything. But if it doesn't work out, it's welcome. But foreign workers who have lost their jobs are practically excluded from the social state, although they have paid all their obligations on a regular basis before, let's say that because we have data that some companies do not pay for it and that workers do not know about it yet, and they are not guilty of it, they are practically excluded from the social state. It is therefore essential that we radically amend the legislation in order to reduce the dependency of these workers on the employer. For if a worker stays here, then live, and is almost forced to do informal work in black; but if he returns to his country, he shall thus give up the claims which he has before his employer. This should not be the case, but in practice it turns out that people are becoming powerless. The same is true of our citizens who have lost their jobs. In fact, they can only rely on the minimum assistance of the employment agency and they can forget about the backlogs. Of course, the state helps, but we should also charge someone, at least to those who have caused such a situation. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Why is it that the state does not take matters into its own hands because citizens from you and all of us expect certain measures and the legal basis to address such problems more systematically? At the same time, I would ask you if you could provide me with accurate information for 2010 on the total amount of claims by workers on unpaid salaries and other benefits in 2010 in these insolvency proceedings and enforcement procedures and the amount of the claim by workers, compared to the total amount of all claimed claims in the proceedings. In case you get that information. Thank you very much for the answers.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u239	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u240	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President. Dear Member, this is a matter of more rights which are defined and entitled to them by workers. For the first time, it is the right to payment of funds from the Guarantee Fund. This is the case for those workers who have lost their jobs due to the initiation of bankruptcy proceedings, because of a legally binding decision on forced settlement by financial reorganisation, because of insolvency proceedings in one of the other Member States, if they are in business with us, or because of the removal of an economic company from the register in accordance with the provisions of the Financial Operations Act in insolvency and forced termination proceedings. Foreign nationals who have been employed in the Republic of Slovenia in accordance with the current Slovenian Labour Law and who have carried out their work in the territory of the Republic of Slovenia shall also have the right to payment of these funds from the Guarantee Fund. As regards rights under the Guarantee Fund and Maintenance Fund Act, these workers are equal to the citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. Workers exercising the employer’s insolvency rights under this Act must attach proof of their insolvency claims under this Act. In the decision-making process, the Fund shall determine the application of the claim solely on the basis of the claims to which the worker is entitled. However, the public and guarantee maintenance fund does not collect or process data on the amount of claims reported, as there is no legal basis for this. This information is provided by bankruptcy or coerced managers who then operate in these companies. It should also be said that the claims submitted by workers are not equal to those held by the Guarantee Fund, this is specifically specified. It is true, however, that when the fund pays these workers adequate entitlements, it also requires those organisations or bankruptcy managers to report this claim and claims it back, thereby also obtaining a refund on the fund. That's how this fund works. The second question is the question of helping foreigners, foreign workers, to whom in some cases all are entitled, and in others only Slovenian citizens. All are entitled to first social and personal assistance, while cash social assistance is provided only to citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who have permanent residence in Slovenia and to foreigners who have a residence permit in Slovenia during their stay in Slovenia. This should be stressed because, otherwise, any foreign citizen could come to us and apply for certain forms of social assistance, regardless of the relationship he is in, whether he is employed or contributed or did nothing and so on. Therefore, on 17 February, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia granted EUR 300,000 of emergency livelihoods to third-country nationals who are in a difficult material situation and cannot exercise their rights to social benefits. These are all workers who have ceased their work permits and who have lost their jobs or who also have their residence permits in the Republic of Slovenia and who have lost their jobs and who are also formally employed, but who have not received their salaries, could not exercise their rights to such benefits. Any worker who meets these conditions will receive first aid through the humanitarian organisations Karitas and the Red Cross, as agreed by one of them, EUR 230 and, if necessary, once again in the same amount. The forms will be available both at these two organisations and at social work centres as well as at single homes, so that they can obtain this assistance. This assistance will be paid as soon as possible by the special expert groups. Let me add to this that there is also a new agreement on this agenda with Bosnia and Herzegovina, which will completely align their workers with our workers in this area. We believe there will be no more problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u241	Mr. Kres, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u242	Mr. Secretary, I must say that I am truly pleased with your answer. If this thing is going as well as you speak, and as it shows, I have to say, it's developing in the right direction. I would also like to point out, at this moment, that Slovenia, as a country, has lost very much reputation because this has happened to domestic and foreign workers. And I wondered if it would be possible to amend the legislation in the sense that this guarantee fund would be available to all those who would prove that companies did not pay them the damages, wages, discharges to pay them out of it, and that the State would be given a priority in this bankruptcy process to obtain these funds, and that this story would be concluded in a way that shows one respectable attitude both to workers and to the State. And countries don't just rob. But at the same time, I read in the newspaper today, "Crižanič's anti-loss business reputation of the non-payers", not as Mr Križanič, but as the ministry, in the fact that companies that do not pay are simply put on the blacklist. You know, a person can agree to this to some extent, but if these companies came and those that were unwarranted, those people or those companies would also simply lead, I can say, to the clearing that caused those companies that were doing well to come into a position where they are not paying either to the state or to the workers or to anyone. Here I would reconsider whether it is really necessary to take care of the reputation in this way, and the question of whether all of you, these companies, deserve a reputation. But they certainly are who you are, and in this way, the state finances them at the final stage to continue working, as it could be even worse. True, it's easier [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u243	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u244	Thank you so much for those initiatives. I agree that there is something more to be done and that these institutions, which provide greater safety for employees, will certainly be reviewed, with the need to say that it is basically settled for domestic workers, because if they do not get paid they can simply end the working relationship and go to the institution and, of course, they themselves will show distrust to the employer. However, it is important to be careful when we want to oblige the State to pay instead of the employer, because in this case there could be a great deal of exploitation by irresponsible employers, so that we must not go too far here with solutions. However, we will certainly review this legislation if, in any other case, security can be ensured and, of course, enhanced control over non-payments. As you know, we've also started filing criminal charges recently in case of non-payment. I think that this will be a strong instrument in the future to help solve this problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u245	Thank you. Mr. Kres, please, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u246	I'm not gonna ask for a debate, but I'd like to say, all the entrepreneurs. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u247	You can't do that!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u248	Most entrepreneurs are fair entrepreneurs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u249	Mr. Kres, that's not going to work. Thank you. Mr Tadej Slapnik will ask the question of the Minister of Culture and the Minister of Justice.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u250	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, Minister, colleague and colleague! In his report to Officer Delo, Janez Ivan Janša or SDS forged the archival documents with which he sought to implicate the President of the Republic, Dr. Danil Türk, in a terrorist attack in Velivac three decades ago. Ten pages were to be copied in the SDS from a document received in October 1979 by the predecessor of Dr. Danilo Türk instead of the chairman of the minority commission at the SZDL and entered into the document received by Danilo Türk for their political purposes. The publicly accessible document from the Slovenian Archives, published by the SDS and used it to prove that the President of the Republic, Danilo Türk, lied about how much he knew about the bombing in Veliovac in 1979, is not identical to the one kept by the Republic of Slovenia Archives, which they confirmed in the Republic of Slovenia Archive. Ladies and gentlemen, I ask you: Has the archive of the Republic of Slovenia acted in accordance with its competences, since one of the tasks and objectives of the Republic of Slovenia Archives is also the protection of the national archival cultural heritage of the Republic of Slovenia? I'm also asking you: Is or will the Republic of Slovenia's inspectorate for culture and the media as a body which, inter alia, conducts inspection of the implementation of the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Documentary and Archive Material, in this case acting in accordance with the law and its powers? On one of the worst charges in the history of the Republic of Slovenia at the beginning of this month, Janez Ivan Janša publicly accused the President of the Republic of Dr Danil Türk of having been notified directly of the action in Veliovac, Austria. At that time, I asked the Attorney General whether he would do whatever was necessary within his powers to ensure that appropriate procedures of the District Attorney's Office could be reached as soon as possible. I was not surprised at her negative response at that time, for I could have expected that, as ever, if it were John John Janša, she would have avoided her responsibilities. This has also been confirmed today by the assessment that the compilation of documents is not a crime, even if it is used for the purposes of slandering and embarrassing the President of the Republic. Therefore, on the question of suspicion of embezzlement of archival material, which is a criminal offence, I ask you this time, the Honourable Minister of Justice: Does the State Prosecutor's Office act in accordance with its competences and established conditions when it does not require criminal investigation against John John Janša and his SDS client or responsible person, for the suspicion of a crime of slander, the disgrace of the Republic of Slovenia and the President of the Republic and the forgery of archival material?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u251	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u252	Dear Member, the archive of the Republic of Slovenia is at our request to state precisely, clearly, unequivocally, how, in the case of this alleged assembly, glued, combined, stacking, and certainly misleading in the presentation of the archive material, through which the employees of the SDS Group have searched, have clearly said that there has been, say, abuse or assembly of materials in the way that the media have also gathered. According to different boxes, different materials were taken from different files and finally a list of those recipients of this information, which was not of a uniform nature, but was derived from different maps. Which means that there has been, we believe, probably or almost certainly, the installation of the material, which was, in this form, not in the Archives of the Republic of Slovenia, has been made clear to us in the report they delivered to us. It was also said that the material was disorderly. That's not true. The archive of the Republic of Slovenia carefully looks after its materials and also professionally and professionally manages them. However, the answer, the report we requested at the Ministry of Culture, we received from the archives. On the same day we referred both to the District State Prosecutor's Office in Ljubljana and to the Cultural and Media Inspectorate a proposal for action. It is particularly important that, in the wake of the suspicion of violations, the District Attorney's Office has also pointed out those articles which we consider to have been violated, namely articles relating to the falsification of documents, special cases of document counterfeiting and the like, which are clearly defined in the Penal Code as criminal offences.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u253	Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u254	Thank you. Commissioner, let me continue in the part where it comes to the question whether the prosecution is acting in accordance with its powers. I received today's answer from the Attorney General's Office regarding your question raised. This answer is only partially acceptable because, in one part, the Attorney General does not state how, given the possibility of prosecution for a criminal offence that could have been committed at the expense of the President of the Republic. The answer refers to the answer that she has already provided to you. I don't know him, and I think that such a practice is inappropriate, and I will probably be forced to demand a certain supplement. However, in the first part of the question, which concerns any criminal offence of falsification of documents, its answer is concrete. I am not going to assess the correctness of this response. It shows that the police have requested a consultation with the competent district prosecutor on this issue and that the state prosecutor has taken the view that there are no legal signs of this crime. That doesn't mean there won't be a procedure. The police are autonomous in assessing whether they will file a criminal complaint or merely a report. Of course, the prosecution is also on the move, because one or the other act will have to be defined. This makes it impossible at this point and it would not be appropriate to assess the correctness or irregularity of the decisions of the prosecution, but it certainly seems that it will be necessary to wait first for the police to decide whether to file a criminal complaint or report. From here on out, it will be possible to draw further answers or further questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u255	Mr. Slapnik, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u256	Thank you very much. Thank you both for your answer. Mr Minister, I would like one part of the answer to that first part of the question directly addressed to the Attorney General the following day after Mr Janša publicly accused the President of the Republic of lying. Amazingly quickly Mrs Brezigar answered, the next day, saying I asked a question Thursday, she answered me on Friday. I'd like to read the last part of that answer. He says: "In the case of the offence of embarrassing the Republic of Slovenia under Article 163 of the Penal Code, prosecution shall commence on an official basis. This means that in the event that the State Prosecutor receives a criminal complaint against a specific person for this offence and if there is evidence, the criminal procedure shall commence without a proposal of the injured person. This offence shall be committed if any person commits an act referred to in Articles 158 to 162 of the Penal Code against the Republic of Slovenia or the President of the Republic in respect of the performance of his or her duties." He concludes: "In the case of a criminal offence under Article 163 of the Penal Code, shame must be directed at the office of the President of the Republic of Slovenia, and if it is not so, then it is not a crime." In this reply, Mrs Brezigareva directly replied that she did not assess that such a disgrace would be directed directly at the President of the Republic. In this way, she has already replied that she estimates that prosecution is not necessary under official duty. And I'd like to make a comment on her explanation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u257	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u258	This is the first time I have heard this explanation, but I have listened attentively to what you have read, and I must say that in one part I cannot agree with this answer. Indeed, it is not true that public prosecutors can take decisions as to whether they will request investigative actions, investigations or even file a direct indictment only if they have a criminal charge. They are obliged to do so whenever there is a vote on a possible crime. They are obliged to provide appropriate guidance and guidance to the detection authorities in order to obtain reliable information, which is then the basis for the assessment of whether or not to initiate criminal proceedings. The reference to the fact that there is no criminal charge and that if there is no criminal charge, the prosecutor can't actually do anything, he doesn't. This is also contrary to established practice, which is contrary to our legislation. And so in this part, my answer is quite clear. As to whether in this particular case a crime was committed at the expense of the President of the Republic, I do not have sufficient information here, and it would not be right for me, as Minister, to express myself because I would somehow enter into the jurisdiction that others have, and these are prosecutors who are not solely competent, but also have the responsibility to exercise this responsibility properly. And I hope they do it in this case, too.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u259	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u260	I would only add so much that I hope that there will be no confusion, as we have seen recently, that there has not been a Mr Janez Janša in the process of a matter, even though the proceedings have dealt with the party's president and it has been unequivocal as to who it is. On your question, I would also like to highlight the role of the Inspectorate for Cultural Heritage and Media. In fact, every archive material, any, has the status of cultural heritage and is considered, I stress once again, as our important milestone and monument, including the one through which we write our own history. The rules for leasing material in archives are very precise and unequivocal. They also say that if you use the material you borrow there, after you sign a statement that you can borrow it, you also have to make a contract to use it, which the inspectorate will probably have to examine, why it wasn't done in a specific case. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u261	Ms Silva Montenegro will ask the Minister of Culture a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u262	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Chairman. Hello, Madam Minister, both ministers, colleagues and colleagues! Today, or evening, is somehow a sign of public works, but the question is again sent. At the end of October last year, the Slovenian Employment Office published on its website a call for a public works programme for 2011, with some less than €17 million. Compared to the year previously, the resources shown are significantly reduced, thus implying that there will be significantly fewer unemployed people in the public works. The consequences are already apparent in particular in some public institutions in the field of culture, such as libraries, museums, even some archives, even galleries. All these public institutions have not received the planned resources for planned employment. Public works are defined in the Employment and Insurance Act in the case of unemployment and represent one of the activities to increase social inclusion, in particular unemployment, or, as we like to say, an active employment policy. I see activity in such a way that the government and the ministry, not only do I think of the Ministry of Culture, adapt the calls to the needs of the actual emergency. Since we know that there are very many unemployed people, especially young people, and that there are almost 15,000 waiting for the first job under 25 or 29 years of age, I ask myself: Are you planning any activities in this area? I know and I don't want to, and I don't want to ask you if you know how many public institutions have suffered the mania of this job. A few of them have turned to me, and I must say, for 15 institutions, I can say that for sure. This is, of course, a major problem and a problem for some public institutions to carry out regular activities, so I ask you if you are planning something. It is true, however, that the Minister for Labour, Family and Social Affairs has already said something in this area today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u263	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u264	Dear Member, you have raised a very painful, real and real question, which is really touching our ministry to a great extent in the context of the performance of public works. The most drastic information is, in fact, that last year, according to 2010 in the field of culture, but also mainly in the field of public services, not only in the field of independent cultural workers or non-public services, in 2010 the public works of 660 employed in Slovenia. In 2011 they are currently up to or until the previous week 114, which means that the difference is huge. Almost 500, 480. And this goes to public institutions to a very large extent. You have rightly warned, in the library, that we are not talking about museums, theatres, prepared, auxiliary and accompanying works inside, important, within public institutions. Of course, in reality, public works in such public institutions are, in some ways, temporary and not eternal solutions. But they were accepted to a large extent as a lasting solution over what she is. People learned, adapted, and further educated, thinking that they would come into regular employment. Where are we? We are at a time when the so-called prohibition of employment within public services is not only official, not only within ministries, but within public institutions that are fully concerned with the public sector in the field of culture, where we have added a minus 3% of the cost of works to them. They can't hire themselves. They have a minus inside the public works that they used to have as an auxiliary form, which means they're handcuffed. And it's a real problem. We are comforted, for example, when it turns out that there will be two more public works calls this year, where NGOs are slightly in favour, and then government or public interest, as employees. However, it is necessary to look for systemic solutions, more radically or I hope that they will not be as radically rejected as they were in the past where, say, the employment system, even in the public sector, has been trying to correct itself. You are aware that, within a broader, longer and very constructive debate on culture on public sector reform, we have come to certain conclusions where some painful or difficult changes are possible within the current form, including the way in which employment is carried out. In reviewing, I don't know, the age of employees in certain, say, stage public institutions that limit young people and so on, but here, if we wait only for the time when the situation in the country will generally improve, it is said that conditions such as to allow for wider breathing, in a broader sense, I hope, of course, that it won't be too long to wait for us to get to the green branch before we want to, and that, even with other possible changes, this system could, say, specifically the public works you are talking about, soften or transform through other ways, but not only through volunteering, which is also very well known in culture. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u265	Mrs. Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u266	Thank you very much for your answer. I'm glad you're very actively monitoring this area. It is true that the crisis is a time when public works can be done far easier than in other times. The rules on the implementation of the active employment policy and the rules on the implementation of public works give the possibility for the Government to use this institution for a period of three months or to amend this Regulation itself, if it finds that they are necessary. And, of course, the needs in culture are, not only in the field of self-employed people, but in fact in a series of institutions that we have been able to restore or adapt in the past, and not least to build. There are also many libraries, galleries and some theatres among these public institutions, so it would be a shame that we do not use such impressive facilities and that a number of young people waiting for their first employment and, in one way or another, to acquire basic skills for the performance of their profession are somehow suffering from certain trivialities and bureaucratic prisons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u267	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u268	It's a short-circuit. So, if last year's €37 million for public works has been reduced to around €17 million, then I will also understand the sensitivity of the Ministry of Finance, the Minister for the Family, the Work, and I also understand that there are arrangements to prepare this good public work somewhere in this year with additional calls and not to overwhelm the shock that has now taken place in the face of all the problems that we have. For it turns out that it is especially necessary in these circumstances. It is clear, however, that this is particularly true in our department because of the above-mentioned embargo on employment, and not only in public institutions of state importance, but also in municipal public institutions, where any flexibility is possible only on the basis of its own earnings or revenues, which we know are not enough in museums, theatres and elsewhere, even in libraries, nor is there enough room for manoeuvre to rise from this title. We are concerned about what will happen to this embargo in the future when so many less young people are driven by certain institutions. This is not only a problem in Slovenia, but elsewhere, and I think that Slovenia, if I compare at least according to the reports of my colleagues in the European Union, is leading well this unfortunate period in history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u269	Mr Janez Ribič will address the question to the Minister for Culture and the Minister for Finance. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u270	Thank you for your word. Dear Members and Members of Parliament, distinguished Minister! As we know, the property valuation process has recently been completed and it is expected that a real estate taxation law will be drawn up, from which cultural monuments owners will not be exempted, which is a significant additional financial burden for them. It should be borne in mind that the maintenance of monumentally protected buildings is much more expensive than the usual maintenance of buildings, while the owner has no possibility of economic exploitation of his property and is therefore twice affected. For example, maintenance of an ornamental garden or a park of a recognised creator, etc. The value of these objects is very relative to this and is actually far from the estimated area of the facility. The current law on the protection of cultural heritage for owners of such facilities did not provide for any relief, which departs from the practice of others in Europe. As a result, many owners are cheering at the demands of monumental protection and cultural monuments are failing. Tax reliefs could encourage more effective protection of our monumental fund, while at the same time a number of safeguards should be incorporated into the law in order to avoid abuse. After an inspection, the tax would be reduced or written off only to those who genuinely provide for their cultural heritage. In Austria, for example, for a long time, the rule has been applied for owners of important monuments-protected buildings to be exempt by the State if, for example, an object is once or more accessible to the public during the year. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary, Are you preparing appropriate amendments to the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage to establish appropriate tax reliefs for owners of sites that are protected in accordance with this Act? Can you ensure that in the proposal for a real estate tax law that is being prepared, the owners of cultural monuments will receive special settlement?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u271	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u272	On this issue, honourable Member, I will be pleased to give more advantages and more hearings and answers to Minister Križanič, especially because he has always been very sensitive and sensitive to cultural issues so far. Indeed, he has a law before him that will answer one question, which is a laitmotiv of various governments. The Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, adopted by the previous government, has thus launched with the desire to reduce or not to invest in the heritage, especially the one that needs to be rebuilt, because we know that the maintenance of this heritage is very expensive, that few people are leaving it, that the state does not have enough money to compensate it, and that the economy, in particular now, is increasingly moving away from these businesses, which are known abroad as very successful. But also the former Minister of Finance and the former Minister of Finance, and so on, left this open somehow. We would like, and we have also commented in addressing this law, that in certain cases cultural heritage is dealt with in a more tolerant way when we talk about taxation, and that there is no exception only in those cases, as we now know, in the Heritage Tax Act and Gifts Act or in the Real Estate Tax Act, where exemptions are provided. It is true, however, that I believe that the Minister will immediately ask the second question, that this also means a single set of revenues, which can then be distributed by the State, according to the keys it has, for subsidies, to invest in the cultural heritage as well. I point out that there are very restrictive restrictions, that other countries do have different solutions – already neighbouring Croatia, which has restored half of the cultural heritage by means of specific funds and exemptions – and that maintenance is significantly more expensive for us than in Switzerland. After all, if we put them on the market, these castles or other cultural heritage, everyone knows that investment in heritage is prestigious and that it has added value, but that it is too difficult to rebuild.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u273	Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u274	Thank you very much. Your Honor, I practically have very little time. If I run out of time, the answer is yes. Now we're going to give the whole show. In your question, you would point out that taxation of cultural monuments with a property tax for owners of such real estate would constitute a significant additional financial burden because you believe that such properties require higher maintenance costs and their owners have no possibility of their economic exploitation. You also believe that such property cannot be properly valued, so you ask whether appropriate amendments to the Cultural Heritage Protection Act are being prepared to ensure that adequate tax relief is granted to owners of buildings protected in accordance with this Act and whether specific treatments can be provided in the proposal for a real estate tax law. With regard to the proposal for tax relief, we are responding, the real estate tax will replace the current system of duties, in particular the compensation for the use of building land and the property tax, and will preserve the nature of these revenues. In the current property tax system, the exemption for buildings declared a cultural or historical monument, a more important duty – compensation for the use of buildings – does not provide for such exemptions, so the buildings that are a cultural monument are paying such a tax today. In the context of the preparation of the legal basis for the new real estate tax system, it is also based on the principle that taxation covers all real estate, regardless of their purpose and ownership, since the tax is understood as a contribution to the cost of public goods and services of the local environment in which the property is located. In principle, property that is a cultural monument should also contribute to its share. However, given the high costs that are coming, the new tax does not yet exist in the proposal itself, and the authors of the tax anticipate similar reliefs such as those for the property tax. So we're essentially answering your question with a firm answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u275	Mr. Fishich, would you like an additional answer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u276	Thank you. Dear Minister, I agree with you that the situation in the area of monumental protection is more than idyllic. You don't have to be an architect or art historian to find out that a number of cultural monuments are being rebuilt with the aim of increasing profits and not according to the principles of cultural and historical value of the monument. Just a short walk down the center of the capital is enough to make that clear. What are you going to do with all those who deliberately destroy cultural monuments and have received a number of calls from the Cultural and Media Inspectorate in the past and do little to respond to them? As an example, I refer to Kolisej, Plečnik Stadium, Rikli's villa in Bled and others, that I am not even talking about the decaying castle of Statenberg and underground garages in the Congress Square and under the market in Ljubljana. Are there any other amendments to the Cultural Heritage Protection Act that will prevent such cases and strengthen the supervision of the Ministry of Culture over the Institute for the Protection of Cultural Heritage, which has, in a number of cases, been playing with the principles of monumental protection? Of course, monumental protection must not become an obstacle to the development of the country, but not at all costs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u277	Madam Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u278	There are very different examples, so that some general definition, as you gave it, is difficult to take as dry gold. Because of the fact that monumental services are very precise, sometimes even too much, because they are blocking in some way individual initiatives when they are identified, when they are required, when they are actually further interfering with plans and sometimes also stifle development, they are very suffocating, on the one hand, to intervene or care for supervised protection of cultural heritage, and on the other hand, it would be difficult to say that this is why cases are being played. Where the owner does not care about his property, he must act accordingly, as the inspector does. It is true, however, that in both cases you mentioned, we know that these are new projects that are being implemented or are supposed to be implemented. The amendment of the law of ZVKD is necessary, but not necessarily in these places to which you have pointed, except for those which speak of the fact that when it comes to the demolition of a particular cultural monument it is not right that interference or arbitrary decision can be given to the ministry or the minister himself without reliance on professional services and a few more details. What needs to be done is institutions for the protection of the cultural heritage of life, not that sometimes even after one year the owners wait to build. In the meantime, many things happen, or owners themselves become sensitive and try to achieve such plans, such solutions that, despite being more expensive because they belong to the city's cores or archaeological sites and so on, insist and care for such architectural and other projects that are not in conflict with the opinions of the heritage. We have not yet been as sensitized as the modern world, which allows a great deal of good connection between old and new, but too often, I will say, all guardians of cultural heritage are more than they have ever been, and this is not their task. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u279	Mr Matjaž Han will ask the question of the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u280	Thank you very much. Honourable Presidents, Honourable Ministers, Minister, everyone, colleagues and colleagues! Due to the economic crisis and also to poor business decisions in recent years, especially by managers, poor regulators and, of course, also with the support of the previous government, Slovenian companies, which were sometimes radical horses, are in a very poor financial situation, so they are forced to sell their investments, which are not basic activities, for my notions at the wrong time. Therefore, over the last few days, there have been increasing rumours about the sale of almost a quarter of the shares of Pivovarna Laško in Mercator, Croatia's Agrokor buyer. The possible sale of this share would undoubtedly mean major changes in Mercator's business system itself, which has more than 11,000 direct employees, and the indirect impact would certainly be felt by system suppliers, particularly from the agricultural and processing sectors. Clearly, then, Mercator’s good conduct is at least partly a national interest, whatever the case. That's why I'm asking. We all know stories about the sale of our companies under the table that happened in the previous government. One of the consequences was that some politicians wanted to influence media houses in Slovenia. And that, as far as I'm concerned, is the original sin, why we're here today where we are. The second original sin is, of course, the greed of individuals that took place between 2005 and 2008, when some wanted to acquire abnormally large assets in the form of businesses without their own resources. That's when the manager's ransom was called. It is precisely because of the economic crisis, because of the bad business of companies, that these unwise financial transactions must now also be recovered or repaid, of course, at the expense of the already poor operation of Pivovarna Laško, but we also know the problem of Istrabenz, Mercury, SCT and not to mention further. I come personally from the area of Laško, and I know very well the operation of Pivovarna Laško and their current problems, which are due to the unwise moves of the previous administration, are now forced to sell assets and thus solve the business. However, I cannot pass through banks, both Slovenian and foreign, and regulators, this is the Bank of Slovenia, when all these things were supported in the past without any difficulty. The Slovenian banking system has been in years, whether we call it fat cows or conjunctura, uncontrolledly supporting so-called managers' buyouts, and today it is no longer participating in the rescue of businesses as it should be. That's why I'm asking you, Mr. Secretary of Finance: What will we do on this segment, however, to make banks more involved in solving all the imported projects that have helped to transport them themselves? Question for the Minister for Agriculture: What will he do because we know that Mercator is the biggest Slovenian trader and has 70% of Slovenian goods on his shelves and thus directly influences most of the agricultural and food sectors in Slovenia, and we know about Agrokor what he has to do with Slovenian suppliers in Croatia? Once again, I ask both ministries: What are you going to do in this area? Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u281	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u282	Thank you very much. I'll give the combined answer. As far as the bank is concerned, it is clear that they can support successful projects through credits, those which it considers successful also have adequate protection, and it is difficult for them to design a project outside their core business or activity, so that they cannot become entrepreneurs in all areas, this usually ends worse. They need a partner in whom they trust, and it must then carry out a specific project or a recast of an activity or put this activity on a completely new footing or whatever, to continue and improve the matter. The second part of the question relates to the conclusion and we are already witnessing the depletion of one of the companies in Slovenia and the transfer of the company's work to the centres outside Slovenia, which may also be the beginning of a road that ends as it ended when the Tobacco Factory was taken over or when the Ormož Sugar Factory was taken over. In particular, the latter now shows a large shortage of this good on the market, indicating a business error in the decision to close this company and a business error in the decision to sell this company because the sale allowed the company to close down. The example of the company’s decommissioning is not isolated, but it can be strongly indicative of future sales and decision-making decisions, whether we are prepared to assume the additional unemployment of such companies, which will be taken over, appropriately lower public revenues and the deterioration of the geostrategic situation of Slovenia, since at least a few of these companies are actually based on this situation, in particular this case, which has been mentioned recently. As a representative of the Social Democrats in the Government, I stress that Slovenia is an open economy that promotes the entry of foreign investments, this is particularly visible in the area of trade, as Slovenia has a large number of foreign traders who have successfully built their own trading networks after entering the Slovenian market. Such an approach, which increases competitiveness and enhances value for consumers, is very welcome. The Republic of Slovenia, because of its ownership structure in a large trading company, which has changed significantly after the rise of the tycoons and the desire to politically control the media, does not have the direct option of deciding on the suitability of these investors, it is said that it is difficult to sell, only indirectly, through seized shares in banks that have a significant state share of ownership. I reiterate the importance of this company, which successfully ensures the accessibility of Slovenian agricultural products and of Slovenian food-processing activities to a wide range of consumers at home and abroad. Experience from the past has taught us that Slovenian products have generally left merchants' shelves in foreign markets, so it is highly questionable to drink the synergies that would arise after our company took over. Forgiveness, real estate sales and the like, reducing costs for higher acquisition profits is probably not the right way to develop Slovenian companies. The decision on the strategic importance of Mercator for Slovenian agriculture and economy should also be assessed by the newly established Capital Investment Management Agency of the Republic of Slovenia, it may be in Mercator that it recognises at least what the takers see, says an important strategic firm for the development of the economy, and directs the relevant investors to this part of our economy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u283	I have to say, the Minister of the Jews is not here. Here you go, Mr. Han.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u284	Thank you very much for your answer. Minister, I personally agree with you about foreign investments, too, but it is necessary to look at each case individually, because we also know other foreign investments that have come to our area, and I do not know if we can be satisfied with all of them. As for the Lashko Brewery, which sells this share, I have to say there's also a bank hostage in some way. In recent years, during the political and egotistic abuses of individuals, Laško, which was once a radical horse of the Slovenian manufacturing industry, has been completely exhausted and all their potentials have been exhausted and, worst of all, the people who co-created the company. That is why I believe that the government and your ministry will actively participate in the rescue of companies that are for Slovenia, as I have previously wanted to say, if you wish or have not heard that these companies are of national interest. Risks, for my understanding, can be too great, so we can't leave anything else to chance. Above all, I hope that we have learned a great deal from the Taiwanese acquisitions of the past and that we will not repeat the same story again and, above all, I think in this story around Agrokor. Because we know that Agrokor is significantly worse than Mercator after all the balance sheets, and Agrokor would somehow be saved by purchasing Mercator, so I hope that the Slovenian government will be more cautious here than the previous government that allowed these takuna acquisitions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u285	Since your question was also addressed to the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food, do you want to be answered in writing?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u286	I'd like to, yes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u287	Mr Luka Juri will ask the Minister of Environment and Space a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u288	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to the ministers and the ministers! Dear Minister of Environment and Space, about a bad year ago, we also discussed intensively with your ministry and with the Government Office for Climate Change about subsidising the purchase of greener vehicles, particularly the subsidisation of the purchase of electric vehicles. One of the reasons for subsidising this purchase in addition to the environmental aspect was, say, national-market nature. Therefore, in order to introduce such subsidies, they would convince the producers of the first such vehicles to place Slovenia first on the market where such vehicles would be offered. We know that at the beginning of these vehicles will be smaller and manufacturers will offer this in particular in those markets where they will assess that even with incentives from the country, the sale of glass will be normal entrepreneurial logic. This led to an idea, an idea, an awareness that it would be good to introduce subsidies for the purchase of electric passenger cars or personal vehicles of category M1 of EUR 5 000. As a result, a group of Members with me, as the first to be signed before, proposed a law on subsidies for cleaner vehicles. At that time, the law was rejected at second reading and on the committee. In particular, on the basis of your ministry's explanation, and in particular the Climate Change Office, that the Government is preparing subsidies, other than for electric vehicles alone, at the level of EUR 5,000, and that this does not require the adoption of legislation, as this would be resolved by a regulation. We haven't learned much about it since then. There are two options. The one thing I don't believe in is that the government has done nothing else in this area. The second, in which I believe more sincerely, is that the Government has prepared further bases and is now waiting for enforcement. But since we don't know much about this, please, Minister, if you can explain: How is this situation, and when, if this happens, will these subsidies be introduced? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u289	Mr. Minister, Dr. Rok Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u290	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! I think the answer will be quite satisfactory. At its meeting on 3 February this year, the government adopted a programme of measures to provide infrastructure and a system environment for the entry of battery electric vehicles into the Slovenian market, slightly wider. The aim of this programme is to accelerate the introduction of battery electric vehicles into the Slovenian market, with measures being comprehensive, as the programme contains a set of measures that include placing filling sites in the environment, ensuring minimum technical requirements for smart filling sites, a proposal for the provision of green energy in filling sites, and a proposal for a system to subsidise the purchase of electric vehicles and filling sites. In particular, the subsidisation of the purchase of electric vehicles is planned under the Eco-Fund scheme, with a subsidy for the purchase of one vehicle for natural persons amounting to EUR 5 000. We are expecting or planning to start implementing the scheme in 2012, which somehow coincides with the increased inflow of such cars to the market. However, I must also boast that in the building to which our ministry will hopefully move by the end of this year, we have the envisaged 10 filling places in the basement garages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u291	Thank you very much. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u292	Thank you very much. Please, if you can complete your answer with a slightly more detailed forecast if you have this information: When or how should these measures be concrete? It is therefore a regulation. When is this Regulation to be adopted, if the Regulation is to be, or otherwise? Are we talking about 2012 starting this year? And: Is it also specified which categories of vehicles will be subject to these subsidies? Is it only for passenger vehicles of category M-1 or also, given that there are many types of vehicles in urban vehicles, for vehicles of categories of quadricycles, i.e. L-7E, according to domestically referred to small cars with a plate equal to those of larger engines? And at the end: Will these subsidies apply strictly to electric vehicles or to hybrid vehicles of the newer generation, where the battery has a majority role in the drive and not complete? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u293	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u294	I'm sorry, but I can't give you accurate information right now, but we'll give you a written answer. However, in Eco, the case is in such a way that the annual invitation to tender for certain things is followed by the implementation of the invitation to tender. So I expect in early 2012 that the Eco Fund will issue a call for proposals and then these matters will take place financially. As to the details of which category of vehicles will be covered, we will answer you in writing. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u295	Thank you very much. Mr. Luka Yuri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u296	Thank you very much. I'm really asking for a written answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u297	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat will ask the Minister of Education and Sport a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u298	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Minister, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! A recent economic review was presented of the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development, which has touched on macroeconomic indicators, education and foreign investment in three parts. The macroeconomic review or this review shall contain a summary and recommendations and assessments. In doing so, some of the data from the review was wrongly linked. It is indeed stated in this summary that more resources should be diverted to tertiary education at lower levels of education and increase the efficiency of spending, but there is no claim in the review that the effects or results of our pupils in primary and secondary schools are poor compared to other countries of the European Union. The 12th point of this summary even states: "According to international comparisons, Slovenia's primary and secondary education systems work well, with Slovenia in the OECD having one of the highest shares of the population between 25 and 64, which completed at least secondary school. The results of the programme for the international evaluation of students of PISA are above the OECD average." If I let the results be interpreted in more detail within the framework of the PISE, which I have already asked, much of the dust has raised mainly a recommendation on what to do. The competent authorities should, by increasing the student-teacher ratio, improve the efficiency of spending in the provision of pre-school education and protection and increase the supply. We should reduce the geographical imbalance between available places in kindergartens and needs. Then we should also stop some branch schools and join individual schools. All of this is quickly said by those proposals that raise the most concerns. In doing so, it must be said that there is also a lot of talk about the share of gross domestic product for education. The average in the European Union is 6.2% and in 2008 Slovenia earmarked 5.22 for education. If we want to increase justice, quality and the efficiency of education, we should ensure a higher percentage of GDP rather than reduce it. Of course, Mr. Secretary, I ask you: How do you comment on what is happening with regard to the OECD review? [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u299	Dr. Igor Luksic, Minister for Education and Sport. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u300	Dear Mr President, Madam Member, Minister, there are Members in attendance! The OECD, we know, is a respected institution that celebrates 50 years of age this year and the research and recommendations it makes to governments are always welcome, but of course the question from which the recommendations come. In this case, we have before us a report and recommendations from the department dealing with fiscal policy, here the issue of education has been addressed by colleagues working and learning about financial issues, and from this point of view these recommendations should also be taken. Slovenia has also received from another source, according to the OECD, for example in 1999, we have recommendations made by the Education Department, which was then specifically established with the OECD, and these recommendations made by the OECD Education Ministers are completely different. At the meeting of ministers in September 2010, we found that investment in education is the best investment, but of course these recommendations, such views on financial work, are distorted or in the form we are dealing with here. The orientation of school ministers in the European Union, in UNESCO, is, in the world, that with children, with early education, it is said that at a time when children are in kindergarten, investment, if spoken in this economic language, is the best time in the story. According to some studies, money is allocated to preschool education three times to seven times better invested than in later periods. For one part of the OECD, pre-school education and education is mainly consumption or, at best, a protective activity at the time the parents are at work. For us, for Slovenian standards, this is something that many neurologists now find as well as many economists, the best investment possible during school. Now what the OECD has recommended is, say in the kindergarten area, that we should coordinate the whole area of preschool education, invest where there are too many children, and probably children where there are too many of them, move into places where there are more kindergartens. Of course, that's a good reference. We're the only ones who know what it's like. For example, in 2009, September, there were 2,000,500 children in our kindergartens too, and at the same time we had 2,000,500 free cities. The problem is that this is in different congregations. So that's a good idea. As far as primary schools are concerned, we well know that our primary schools are not only a place where children acquire knowledge, but where resources are growing. Every elementary school has a gym today, has a library, we have an orderly diet. At the same time, this gym is a multi-purpose place where we meet the village, where the center of the community is. In addition, 50% of the villages in Slovenia have a special status of endangered areas, in which case also 50% of primary schools have this status. So we have these primary schools distributed throughout the territory because we think this is related to the quality of life. And we bet on it. So we consciously decided to work on the quality of these schools, and there's no reason for us to crease here, as they say, and that's why I think this policy [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u301	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. Do you want to complete the answer? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u302	Thank you, Minister, for this part of the answer. I understand from it that you agree that it is not a question of whether the OECD recommendations and assessments should be taken seriously or not, but that the arguments that you consider that all the recommendations relating to education cannot be taken into account because there are some specificities in Slovenia that need to be maintained in order to preserve, in particular, the fairness and quality of public education. That's why I want to know: How do you comment that any of the recommendations already made in the first OECD review, to which the previous government has had much more understanding than it is now, can be seen in these recommendations? If I looked at what they thought in the current reaction to the biggest opposition party, would it indicate that some of the recommendations were favored? What I am particularly pleased about is that neither the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Development nor you can see the search for a way out in that more of the necessary funding for higher education, for tertiary education, could be obtained at the expense of basic and secondary education, as well as data on how investments are being reimbursed in early childhood, particularly in those coming from socially less conducive environments. Is there a perfect consensus on government level? How do you see the possibility that the national consensus on this would be maintained in the future? Thank you for this part of the answer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u303	Mr. Luksic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u304	Thank you so much for saying that. Thank you very much for the additional question. In 2005, Slovenia tried to abolish branch schools under the previous government, but this experiment lasted less than 6 months, and the previous government stopped doing so. There is also a recommendation from the OECD that the impact of employers on vocational education should be increased. This advice came too late because, at the beginning of this Government's mandate, the Centre for Vocational Education, which is intended to lead a policy in the field of vocational education, had just begun to amend its statute. Following this statute, representatives of the employers of the Chamber of Commerce and Chamber of Commerce are expected to step forward at the end of the previous government's term of office. I called my colleagues and asked why they were doing this, and they said, "because under the previous government, this cooperation didn't work." I asked them that this couldn't be the reason right now, and we brought this thing back. So, it just doesn't hold, it didn't hold until 2004, and it hasn't held back since 2008. We work with employers, so this social partnership also runs well in the field of school policy. As regards the Government's agreement on a possible redeployment. I think it's one attempt I could call cannibalism here. There is no reason for us to start eating among ourselves so that one of us can be more satisfied than the other. We all know that education, particularly high, is particularly nourished, but this is again the result of the failure to respect the Higher Education Financing Regulation adopted in 2004 – in which I participated then as an ex-dean of the university – and which led nicely to a rise in funding for higher education, and then to a shift from this way the curve turned down. The number of new colleges increased in the same amount, which was bad. Now, at a time of crisis, it is difficult for the Minister and this government to reverse the trend, but I think it is a consensus that we are going together to give education more force and make sure that it receives more resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u305	Thank you very much. Ambassador Milenko Ziherl wanted to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who was absent. Will you ask me a question?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u306	Yeah, sure. Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Once again a nice greeting to all present! So I'm going to ask the Minister a question and have him answer me orally at one of the future meetings. The question, however, is worded as follows: How are priorities set and how will the priorities of Slovenian foreign policy change in the light of the latest revenues? In the first set, I would like to formulate the question in this way, how foreign policies are uniformed, since we have three active actors in the foreign policy field, namely the President of the State, the President of the Government and, of course, the Foreign Minister. How is their work coordinated? In view of some of the wrong decisions on the past, how would it be said to correct the situation or to redefine new target audiences, or target countries, particularly in the field of rapid growth of the economy? There is a lot of interest in Slovenia, and Slovenia acts against these countries as a peasant bride, i.e. unforgivable, unattainable or close to these tenderers. These countries certainly include South Korea, Mexico, Brazil, and perhaps some with a rapidly growing economy, where there are large investments, where there are greater opportunities than in some other markets where even unrest is now due to revolutionary rains. The crown of all these events is events in Libya. We can read that the construction site is being prepared, but because of the events at home when there were no bank guarantees, they fell into the water, and then businessmen say that after the government's visit to Libya, things did not grow. Business relations have not increased, trade in terms of political pump is negligible and we have a country with which for decades there has been no state meeting, a better economic relationship. In addition, there are some indications that, although we support peace with one hand, military materials and assets were exported to Libya with another hand, possibly weapons. We are present in Libya in the wooden market, but how – as mediators of the Finnish and Swedish hands and so on. So I'm wondering: Where are foreign policy priorities set and how will they change in the future to get us out of the crisis? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u307	Thank you very much. We will inform Minister Zbogar that you want an oral response at the next meeting. Mr Ivan Grill will ask the Minister for Environment and Space, Dr Roku Žarnic. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u308	Thank you very much for your words, Chairman. Dear Minister! On this issue, Mr Minister, I am sure that the saying that money is lying on the road, but the state does not know it, does not want to collect it, nor does it want to collect the congregation, of course. It is a so-called arrangement of many black buildings, which are certainly still in existence in Slovenia. According to public data, some 9 000 legalisations were legalized in 1993 on the basis of the law or amnesty, which, of course, resulted in a large and new flow of money into state and municipal budgets. I am convinced that even now, according to the list of these properties, there is information about how many so-called black buildings exist in Slovenia. I am not to be misunderstood, the advocate of black buildings, but I am sure you agree that this area of offices where regulatory spatial acts allow this to be allowed and that it is possible to find a way for those owners who, because of sometimes misleading data in the congregation or in administrative units, have gone into construction, and then it turns out that they cannot legalize these matters. Mr. Secretary, I'd like to ask you: Is this information about the number of black buildings? But above all, I want to know: How will the ministry deal with this way or the possibility of these things being settled? I am convinced that the owners of black constructions themselves are also seeking to legalise this, to pay the penalty, not least the municipal contributions. This would be a significant source of funding for state budgets, especially in municipal budgets, especially if the data that is said to have brought almost EUR 10 million into the Ljubljana budget is available at the expense of those who have had the opportunity to legalise so-called black construction. Please, if you can tell me whether there is any way that this area can be settled, because I am sure that a number of areas that are exactly unregulated ownership or documentation, from usable to building permits, are hampered in the field of tourism, entrepreneurship and so on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u309	Thank you very much. Mr. Minister for Environment and Space, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u310	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I've got a table in front of me that says the Construction Inspection Report, which I'm going to hand over because they're exact numbers. But I'd like to answer some questions myself. In the process of building inspection, in 201, there were 7 000 387 cases, files, of which 3 000 587 were newly opened in 2010, past backlog, I will call it inheritance, and about 3 000 726 cases. This includes all procedures for construction inspection and construction irregularities related to the supervision of construction, construction of products and so on, where construction is incompatible with the building permit, for example the use of the building prior to obtaining the licence, as well as with respect to illegal construction, the whole is said. We do not keep a record of the construction inspection in such a way that a transparent total number of individual types of cases would be based on the type of violation of the law. According to the assessment, between 7 000 and 387 outstanding cases in construction inspection procedures, some 3 000 700 cases have been brought up in connection with illegally built buildings, i.e. 4 000. To illustrate, in 2010, construction inspectors issued a thousand 756 decisions, of which one thousand 190 for illegally built buildings. In the course of these decisions, 313 are issued for various ancillary facilities for which, as a rule, a building permit is not required but, if already, a simplified procedure, in the form of a notification of works. In fact, it is for various auxiliary buildings to be built by municipal decrees and so on. The number of cases in the construction inspection procedures is constantly changing as the procedures are concluded both by legalising the facilities and by removing them where necessary. In 2010, for example, construction inspectors led a thousand and 179 enforcement procedures by means of money forcing them to carry out their actions and also in relation to forced removal. Thus, 427 illegal constructions were removed in 2010, of which 42 were forcible, and the rest were removed by the debtors themselves. The current spatial and construction legislation does not know the concept of "legalisation of objects". However, in accordance with the applicable rules, a building permit may also be obtained for an object which has been built without appropriate permits if the applicable municipal spatial act governing the area in question permits the construction of such buildings and if such a building already meets the conditions laid down in the spatial act. In view of the fact that the possibility of the subsequent acquisition of a building permit for the buildings already built depends on the spatial acts of the municipality, the municipality shall resolve such illegal construction in the context of the preparation and amendment and completion of its spatial acts, but of course they shall take into account the applicable rules, guidelines from State spatial acts, protection requirements and the development needs of the municipality. Certainly, obtaining a building permit is a condition for starting construction. In the case of illegal construction, this is only the right of the owner of illegal construction, which cannot be forced to do so – if the building permit is not obtained, the facility in the construction inspection procedure is removed, for example, even if the spatial act permits legalisation. Since the Ministry considers that the legislation in force provides an adequate solution to the problem of illegal construction, we are currently not planning any other measures, since the implementation of existing legislation is already addressing this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u311	Thank you very much. Mr. Ivan Grill, please fill in the reply.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u312	Thank you very much. Look, there's a rabbit in that bush, Mr. Secretary. Now I don't know exactly how many municipalities have already adopted spatial plans, probably 200 not yet. I know that we were among the first ones to adopt this spatial plan in the New Town congregation. And because of unaccepted spatial plans, there are many problems that those with black construction cannot begin the process of so-called legalisation. I am convinced that for a large number of so-called black buildings, it is not desirable or pointless to go into demolition. And the worst part is, there's some status quo. And here should be the role of the state to make a cut date and truly from that day forward strictly adhere to the fact that any black construction that the inspection detects is sanctioned and destroyed as soon as possible. And so I can show you, say, in New Town is a Roma settlement, where there are dozens of black buildings. Inspectors don't even hope to get there and demand removal or demolition. In such environments, where people are peacefully waiting for the inspector to start to enforce his decision, these procedures – they break down. That is why I believe that the Ministry should approach these constructions, which do not stand out in architecture, which in due course will also receive accommodation in spatial acts, is trying to make legalisation possible, as the non-admission of spatial acts makes this impossible and thus does economic damage to the municipalities and also to the state, in particular to the holders of these facilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u313	Mr. Žarnic, please complete your response.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u314	Thank you very much. There are many congregations that already have spatial acts, and as I said, they can do this. However, I must say that the spatial activities of the congregations are of great concern to us. But you know for yourself that a lot of work must be done by the congregations before they receive these acts. We are trying to warn the congregations, asking them to draw up documentation on the basis of which they could complete the proceedings. It's a new town. Last year we had the demolition of Romani buildings, looking beautiful, and we wanted to move on, but in New Town the congregation promised us containers, and these promises were not fulfilled so that we could remove those Romani houses, since in winter they could not leave the Roma family in the tent under the naked sky. In this regard, it is said that the congregations should be a little more involved in order to settle these matters. I must say, however, that the new Inspector General – 'new' – has been extremely sharp and very consistent since I am. And I must say, we have never had such a strong first inspector in Slovenia. So these things are definitely going to happen and they're going to happen. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u315	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Trofenik wishes to raise the question of the absent Minister for the Magnificent Economy. Darji Radic. Would you like to ask? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u316	Thank you. Given the absence of the Minister, I expect an oral response at the next meeting. The call of the Ministry of Economy for the development centres of the Slovenian economy, worth €180 million, is characterised, for the first time, by the fact that it was based on the advantage of large capital-intensive enterprises, despite the adoption by the Ministry of Economy in May 2010 of an action plan for small enterprises, in which, according to the EU's previous views, the support of small dynamic development and research companies is crucial for breaking the economic crisis under the slogan "Think small first!".. The Ministry of Economy has put the call in exactly the opposite of its own direction, in favour of large companies. It was thus envisaged that the notifier must, at the time of the application, submit a statement to the bank that it would give a guarantee in the event that the project was selected on the invitation to tender. Following the awkwardness of the invitation to tender, it was not clear and unequivocally stated that it was a binding declaration as provided for in the Bond Act. The majority of banks and notifiers therefore understood that it was a non-binding statement, which would also be logical, since most of the reported ones were not selected, but had to pay high costs for issuing the declaration and some banks also claimed monthly payments as if the guarantee had been issued. Within the maximum allowed period prior to the notification, the Ministry shall then supplement the tendering conditions in such a way as to avoid the definition of a binding declaration by requiring that the declaration form shall not contain any footnotes. Interesting. This is supposed to mean that a binding declaration is required and in this way the Ministry has left the choice of projects to banks whether or not to do so. Another time. The tender favoured large projects worth up to 45 million, which means that even in the 20 million grants received, small companies cannot guarantee their own participation, as the loan must be guaranteed twice or 40 million. In the invitation to tender, the Ministry of Economy further divided the points for achieving a high added value per unit of grants awarded. Prague was placed in such a way that small research companies could not reach it. It could also include a number of domestic rules and regulations of the European Union that were not respected in the invitation to tender, in particular the financial gap problem, since only those that show a negative financial gap could obtain funding under European criteria. That's why I'm asking the Minister: Are you sure that the invitation to tender has been properly implemented and the desired objectives have been achieved in favour of the development of the Slovenian economy? What do you think of the possible consequences if, in view of the above, which of the unsuccessful economic operators will be forced to raise an administrative dispute? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u317	Thank you very much. Mag. We'll be glad to inform you that you want an oral response at the next meeting. Mr Mirko Brulc will ask the Minister for Higher Education, Science and Technology Mr Gregor Golobic a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u318	Good evening! He knows the clock again. Mr Minister, on 9 July 2010, an invitation to tender for the co-financing of broadband networks in the local community was issued and the result was published on 14 February 2011. The response of the unchosen is very boisterous. The 11 northern coastal congregations agreed on a joint performance, but they failed. There is doubt as to the fair decision on the choice, since the time limit for the choice after the tender was 60 days and then extended by two months. It is estimated that the Commission has found reasons for the negative decision and thus disposed of unwanted projects. They have the same feeling as in Goriška in Koroška, in White Krajina, Slovenian Konjica, Kočevska and elsewhere. Only €350,000 remain available from the information I have. I'm asking: How will the Ministry allow this much-needed infrastructure to be provided in these areas, which are in the undeveloped areas of our country, even at the border where our great common interest is that these places are also inhabited? I think we're gonna have to find a solution, and here I'm asking the question: How is it possible to meet the needs in all the places I've talked about, which is going to be very difficult? When I was preparing this issue, I did not know that the Higher Education Committee was also convened and that extraordinary meetings were needed and so on, which, of course, we do not agree with. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u319	Thank you very much. Mr. Golobich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u320	Thank you so much for asking. The topic is very topical. I have already answered one question from the Member of Parliament today, which, while referring to the first successful invitation to tender, the so-called GOŠO 1 in 2007, which is still to some extent agitates the spirits. This second one, which you mentioned, has indeed been completed a few weeks ago or the results have been published, the invitation to tender has not yet been concluded because the appeal proceedings are still ongoing, and in this sense it is still open. What I can say at this time in relation to specific matters is that with all due care and care, together with the experts at the Ministry, I will examine all indications of all the complaints that will be submitted by unsuccessful applicants to the Ministry within a period of time. So far, seven such complaints have come. That's the information I have. After this deadline, we'll go and study everything carefully. In the event of any irregularities identified, we will, of course, act in such a way as to settle the complaints, which will also oblige the State to ensure that such a applicant who will succeed in the appeal procedure is obliged to provide funding resources both in the complaint procedure of the selected project. Apples are slow. It is understandable that it is difficult to talk here about a matter which is still open, which is in the appeal procedure. I am not familiar with the content of the complaints myself. I have not participated in the procedures so far as I am a minister, and I have been presented with the decision of the expert commission which led the call and procedure and communicated at the time of the call with the notifiers. I cannot talk about this, but I can only say that we have been worried about this call, about the most transparent distribution of these funds, which – and in this regard the main problem and partly the answer to your question – is, of course, not enough. We have invited here all the funds that were still available in this financial perspective. It was clear by the number of applicants that all in a row circle important areas of Slovenia, on the other hand the so-called digital dividers, where a large number of people are cut off from the possibility of access to the Internet, so they do not have an appropriate broadband connection – there is one of the structural problems of this country and one of the development challenges of the future. We have therefore moved forward with this call, even though we were aware of the experience of the first call made by the Ministry of Economy in the previous term, in spite of the bad experiences that have been and the imperfections of this instrument, we have decided to make it possible, at least where possible, to ensure the construction of this infrastructure after this call. Otherwise, if this instrument were to be amended, it could be re-verified in Brussels and could in fact be compromised by the use of these funds in the years still available, but we know that these years are still few, and the funds must be spent by 2014. In short, the resources were not sufficient for all interest and we favoured or accepted the tendering commission to the five consortia, which includes a significant number of municipalities which have been assessed within the tendering procedure to formally meet the conditions and, on the other hand, to be eligible for this investment in this infrastructure. In short, one path that will take place is the appeal procedure. As I have already mentioned, complaints do not delay implementation, but a positive settlement to the complainants provides funding for their project. And we're going to do this very responsiblely, very carefully. No deadline has been extended for anyone to be eliminated, but the concern that led us to do so has indeed been to consider — and such a task has been given to the call board — all the roles and all the facts, to verify all the data repeatedly that, in the expected dissatisfaction with the small amount of funds, you know that for example, the consortiums of the North Sea municipalities have foreseen about half of the funds allocated for their project, which is legitimate, the needs are such, but we knew that this would lead to themselves, of course, violent reactions as you mentioned. In short, the deadline was extended, not extended, was not binding, but until the decision was extended, because we wanted to make it possible for those too in some way, and then the Ministry of Finance and the Office of the Government for Local Self-Government and Regional Development dissuaded us, they withdrew their consent that we should extend the deadline to supplement the applications. You know, the problem with construction companies was cross-appealing, extermination, even speculative, but we didn't have anything else to do with the invitation to tender. And here in the appeal procedure, we will see what can be done.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u321	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u322	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u323	Mr László Göncz will ask the Minister of Environment and Space Dr Roku Žarnić a question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u324	Thank you so much for saying that. Your Honor! This topic is also one that has been dealt with many times. Knowing that there are more biogas plants operating in Slovenia, of which 11 are located in the premur region and one in the Ljubljana and the interior region, and because we have had views of environmental standards, especially in our region, where I come from, even in this area, many problems and problems so far, there are growing issues about the development or implementation of such activities. With regard to this issue, I am thus asking you a question of general importance, because we still do not have a provision on unpleasant smells to limit emissions from existing and new facilities, which has been announced and whose preparation is the task, undoubtedly, of the executive branch of the authority and the competent professional institutions. I'm interested, and I'm going to cut the question short, at least this first part: When can we objectively expect to prepare and adopt regulations on unpleasant smells to limit emissions from existing new facilities?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u325	Mr. Secretary, please respond.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u326	Your Honor! Thank you very much for the question, Member. The issue of scents is in its own way problematic and, I can say, certainly an interesting topic, but also a difficult one. In fact, in European legislation too, this matter is not very well solved, in other countries. Here is not so much a problem to write a regulation and give some criteria, the problem is measurements, the problem is evaluating the results of measurements, the problem is sensors, because there is not yet a sensor in this area that would allow for quality measurement and analysis. The problem with smells is most often related to activities related to animal breeding, the operation of biogas plants, as you yourself said, catering plants, including emissions from industrial facilities and also individual hens, because there is sulphur in the fuel or something like that. We believe that unpleasant smells from animal rearing facilities can be regulated under the Animal Breeding Act, which lays down the conditions or standards to be met by animal breeders, and then there would be no unpleasant odors if they were met. Another issue is the inn, where there is again some legislation that is adapted to these restaurants. Spatial planning is the key to all of this. With adequate spatial planning and installation of facilities such as biogas plants, many problems could be avoided. Let's say Motvajevci is such a problem. As a result of the smells, it is likely that short-term measures may be most appropriate to move such facilities outside of the places where people live. This would also give a clear message of where we can place such problematic objects. The smell rule – it can be a question of how much we need it, because already with the consistent implementation of the rules already adopted and taking into account the rules in spatial planning, many problems would be solved on their own. The adoption of a regulation would entail the establishment of a system of authorising officers or experts to verify it. For the time being, the human nose is the one that is the only reliable instrument, and then the problem of interpreting the analysis of the interpretation of what a trained, authorized supervisor is, what should I call it, who, with his sense of smell, can also fill it in. It is said that mission-related solutions will need to be sought not only in the direction of a regulation, but rather a broader solution to the problem. I don't know if this can help you, but in fact, if I say very briefly, each nose has a different degree of sensitivity and it's very difficult to standardise. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u327	Thank you very much. Dr. Laszlo Gönch, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u328	Thank you very much. It is not a question of whether this answer is correct or not, but it is a systemic matter, in my opinion, and no doubt this question causes much discomfort in the Slovenian space as well as elsewhere. I will not even go into the specific question of the Motavajevci now, even though you mentioned this location, because there was quite a lot here, in my opinion, bad done both in spatial planning and otherwise. In this regard, I have also recently given you a Member's initiative. Finally, I ask: Do you think that, in terms of reducing the quality of life in a given area, we should refer to the fact that we do not have a methodology, that we do not have a system, that we do not have a suitable opportunity to make measurements? I think that by no means, at least from the point of view, I will say, all inhabitants, but above all, the wider community is such an answer, in my opinion, flawed. We have to stare, you have to stare, the executive branch of power must look for this issue to be resolved in one way or another as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u329	Thank you very much. Minister Roko Žarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u330	In spite of the late hours, there may be another word. We have already thought about this and I think it would be best if we took a brief look at how these problems are handled elsewhere in Europe and elsewhere. But as I said before, I think the simplest solution will be not to allow such polluters to build objects near the human habitat, because we smell quickly, but it is very difficult to measure formally. For example, imagine that a case would come to court and three experts and three opinions. These are the problems. This is a bad comfort for people who have to endure it. However, somehow we will try to find good practice and then what to do in this area. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u331	Thank you very much. Mag. Majda Potrat wants to ask Mrs Katarina Kresal, Minister of the Interior, a question. Please, you're the last one, and there's also the secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u332	Thank you so much. That's why it'll be safer. I should like to start by saying that I expect a written answer to a question that I recognize has grown from the situation we have been in when the Single Winter Holiday Rules triggered a rather violent reaction. I will not go into arguments for or against single holidays on my own, because, after all, we have had a number of questions raised here, as well as a joint meeting of the Committee on Economics and the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth. In order to have another such joint meeting, it is also true and a special meeting of the Committee on the Economy took place on this subject. That is why I am asking, in fact, about the things that are the result. In this regard, there have been many predictions of traffic jams and ski slopes. Both are expected to increase the likelihood of an increased number of accidents. That's why I'm referring to Minister Katarina Kresal. The forecast of a great crowd during the winter's single vacations, which is intended to seriously endanger the safety of holidayers on busy skis, did not come true after the media's report. Still, I want to know: What are the data collected on the consequences of ski accidents, comparable to those of the last few years? Why do I ask that? Since we have a special ski safety law since 2002, the law has also been amended, the Ministry of the Interior has been actively involved in all the preventive activities necessary to ensure security. And we have been monitoring quite a few actions, including the Minister, who reported that there were a thousand 179 accidents on the ski slopes last year. It was a joint action in cooperation with ski operators, supervisors, police officers and inspectors, but of course the first responsibility is on the skier himself. I expect that the Minister will be able to provide the data collected in writing over the last few years in order to find out how increased awareness and preventive action contribute to this. The fact is, we cannot overlook that the Ministry of the Interior has been particularly well prepared for this year, but a helicopter was also in preparation, and luckily, at least what I know is the most numerous ski accidents we have not seen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-28-SDZ5-Redna-25.ana.u333	Thank you very much. We will inform the ministers that you want an oral answer to your question at the next meeting. [[advertising from the hall]] I'm sorry, written answer, I misunderstood. I thank all Members and Members for the questions raised, Minister, Minister and Prime Minister for the answers. Your proposals to vote on the answers to the questions raised will be decided tomorrow in the framework of the agenda, with the votes cast. This concludes this agenda item and today's session. We'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. Thank you very much.
