ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I'm about to proceed with the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Dr. Andreja Črnak Meglič, Janja Klasinc, Melita Župevc, Eva Irgl, Renata Brunskole, Bogdan Barovič, Franc Pukšič, Anton Kolarič, Milenko Ziherl, Miro Petek, Iztok Podkrižnik, Victory Jelinčič Plemeniti, László Göncz [[By 16:00 p.m.]] And Tadej Slapnik. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to six. At the end of the day, it's an effigy of the Act on the Complements of the Law on Economic Companies after the short procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Ma'am Darja Radic, Minister of Economy, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u2	Thank you, Chairman. Well-known, distinguished Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you the Proposal for a Law on Complementation of the Law on Economic Companies, which we have been predicting for some time. The amendments to the law relate to the regulation of the field of silent companies, where we have made additional determinations regarding the identification of conflicts of interest in companies to try to regulate this area. The purpose of this proposal is to properly regulate cases where there may be conflicts of interest in management. Therefore, these proposals propose an arrangement which provides that the management of one company may enter into a business with another company in which itself or its immediate family member or all of them have a share that reaches a tenth of the basic capital, or is itself or its family member a silent member, or is on any other legal basis involved in the profits of the company only if the supervisory board of the company agrees with such conduct. If this share is less than a tenth of the basic capital, the amendments or additions to the law stipulate that this conclusion of the business must be notified to the supervisory board. In our view, these amendments to the Company Act provide for greater transparency and are also required from the Supervisory Board to decide on each particular case in these cases. Of course, it is up to him to decide whether this business, which will thus be concluded, is to the detriment of society. We've talked a lot about this marriage, so I wouldn't be giving any more explanations here. I would also like to say that we have also reviewed the amendments, and in this regard the Government's view is that we do not support the amendments of the SDS Group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on the Economy to be the working body of the mother. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Mirk Brulc, a member of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u4	All present, well-known! At its 34th meeting, on 5 April, the Committee on the Economy considered the above-mentioned draft law as a work force. Representatives of the Ministry of Economy, Chamber of Commerce, Chamber of Commerce and Industry, Legal and Legal Services and the All-Slovenian Association of Small Shareholders participated in the meeting of the Committee. We have tabled coalition parliamentary groups to Articles 1 and 2 of the proposed law within the time limits of the amendments, and the SDS Group has also tabled amendments to the articles. The Committee took note of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which made specific comments to the article of the draft law, which were duly taken into account in the amendments of the coalition parliamentary groups. The Committee also received the opinion of the Commission of the State Council for the Economy, Crafts, Tourism and Finance, in which it also supported the draft law with some comments. The Ministry of Economy has provided additional explanations to the Committee on the amendments tabled by the groups in question, in which it extensively explains the reasons why the amendments of the SDS Group are not supported and supports the amendment of the coalition groups. In the course of the discussion on the articles of the bill, the members of the committee discussed only Article 1 and the amendment tabled by the SDS Group to this Article. According to the representative of the SDS Group, the proposed Article 1 dictatorship does not eliminate cross-interests in any way, which is the purpose of the proposed amendment to the law. He stressed that the proposed amendment did not seek to prevent free economic activity, but rather to ensure transparency and transparency in the way that the director, procurator or executive director of an economic society should not enter into legal business with society. In fact, with a company in which a private or close family member is also a silent companion, or to prevent the possibility of a company’s director being able to operate simultaneously with a firm in which he is a silent partner. The proposed amendment is intended to prevent, in the view of the SDS Group, any future relationship between the parties or society or between the company and the individual who are otherwise governed by the contract from being disguised and entered into a court register and thus made accessible to the public. With regard to the proposed amendment of the SDS Group, the Secretary of State explained that the proposed amendment constitutes additional standardisation and is too restrictive, since it expressly prohibits the conclusion of transactions in advance if the manager, procurator or executive director, himself or his or her immediate family member is involved in the capital of another company, regardless of the share, or if he or his or her family member is a silent participant, or is involved in the profits of the company on another legal basis. The proposed amendment also lays down an absolute prohibition without assessing whether a conflict of interest could indeed occur and whether it would also cause harm to that society. This excessively interferes with the freedom of operation of all companies, especially those where the state has no share whatsoever and it is entirely private property. The Secretary of State also answered the question of the members of the committee whether the Government had also forwarded the draft law to the anti-corruption commission and explained that the Ministry of Economy had made the proposed solutions known to all the relevant institutions, as well as to the anti-corruption commission, which had not submitted comments on the proposed solutions. Most of the members of the Committee also considered, on the basis of further explanations from the Ministry of the Economy, that the proposed text adequately regulates issues of conflict of interest, but it cannot be expected that the law could foresee or completely prevent all potential abuses. After the discussion, the Committee identified itself to the amendments tabled and adopted the amendment of the coalition parliamentary groups to Articles 1 and 2 of the bill, but therefore did not accept the amendments of the SDS Group to the articles. The Committee did not formulate and adopt its amendments in the debate. The Committee voted on all articles of the bill and adopted them. In view of the amendments adopted, the text of the supplementary draft law, which forms an integral part of this report, is prepared. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Franz Bogovic has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u6	Good afternoon, Madam Vice President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! The Company Act does not contain provisions to address issues of conflict of interest between members of companies' management. In practice, conflicts of interest may arise where the impartial and objective performance of tasks or the decision-making of members of management is jeopardised by the integration of their economic interest or any other related interests with another natural or legal person and this must be properly regulated by law. The proposal for a new law thus provides that the manager, executive director or procurator of a company must, if there is a conflict of interest in the conclusion of a legal business with another company whose partner or close family member is itself, or if he is involved in the profits of that other company on any other legal basis, such as a silent participant, in order to conclude such a legal transaction, obtain the consent of the supervisory board of the company. In recent times, silent companies have proved to be a particular problem. Silent societies are not some modern form of society, nor are they in Slovenian uniform. They developed in the late Middle Ages in Central Europe – France, Italy, Germany. The essential feature of this company has been and is still today that a silent partner contributes to the company's assets and remains hidden to third parties. Today, therefore, silent companies are formed primarily to carry out those transactions in which the interests of operators are that their participation is not disclosed publicly. This form therefore appears in different areas of the economy. All is well and well, and the problem arises when this instrument of a silent society is being misused for the personal exploitation of the power and position it has before the entry into society of a future partner. We have in mind, above all, economic situations when it comes to such or other state-owned enterprises. The Director of Public Property affects the origin of a particular supplier. The supplier will surely find it difficult to resist the Director’s desire to become his silent partner. Of course, such an offer is not impossible by the supplier. For the private economic sector, a silent society is not such a big problem. The problem of a silent society is becoming extremely large in relation to the state : the private sector. In this case, a silent society is not and cannot be a legitimate instrument. It can only be an institutionalised tool of corruption that allows the abuse of power and the situation of government and state behaviour and consensus. The proposed law is unlikely to fully prevent such situations in the future, unfortunately. In general, because of the threat of sanctions against the benefits to be gained, it is relatively low and it is impossible to identify a silent society by third parties. However, we must also agree that a simple deletion of the provisions following a silent ZGD company, as proposed by the SDS at its previous meeting, would not also solve this problem. The proposed law will be supported in the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party with the best hope.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u7	Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u8	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! On the table, we have a proposal for a law regulating in the field of company law to prevent any conflict of interest between managers who are themselves, in one way or another, connected with the companies they are working with. This is particularly important when it comes to companies owned in part or in the majority of the country, as it may result in damage to state property. The problem of silent companies has been dealt with twice in plenary meetings in the last four or five months at the initiative of fellow Members, and they would simply delete the company from the ZGD on their proposal. At the same time, most of us felt that such an approach to dealing with anomalies or abuses in practice was inappropriate, as there would still be another way for leaders to continue to pursue their personal economic interests in the management of society's business through the conclusion of different forms of contracts. The law was introduced into the procedure by the Government, a little late, but the legal text is more complex than those mentioned earlier. In order to avoid conflicts of interest, it is proposed that a person who is the manager, executive director or procurator of one company may enter into a business with another company in which he or his or her family member, or all together more than 10% of the capital, or if he or one of his or her family members is a silent participant, or if he or she is involved in another company on another legal basis, only if he or she gives consent to such a business to the supervisory or administrative authority of the company or assembly. Also, in cases where less than 10% of participation in capital is concerned, transparency is being established, as the authorities listed above will have to be informed of the conclusion of the business. The legal novelty therefore follows and implements the principle of transparency or transparency of the business of companies in the context of the conclusion of business between companies where the participation of the same person in one company and the management function in another as ownership may result in a conflict of interest. We believe that the amendment is sufficient, not only because money penalties are imposed on violators of the provisions, but the supervision of the implementation of the provisions under the basic law falls under the Ministry of the Economy, but it is essential that a systematic approach is taken to the issue of concealment of ownership and subsequent placement. We will support the proposed complement in our parliamentary group. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u9	Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the SLS Chamber Club. LDS, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Madam Minister with co-workers! Of course, I am still at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, and I also represent their position. When considering the amendment of the company law, it is already the third attempt to address the issue of conflicts of interest that may arise in the management of a company and with the business person of the related companies who would operate with the company mentioned above. Cases of practice are familiar to us, so it is high time that we adopted a comprehensive solution to this area. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we took the view that we strongly condemn conflicts of interest, which are also carried out through the Institute of Silent Associates and Organisations of Silent Companies, but we did not agree on simply deleting the chapter on silent societies. This is an institution which is also connected in other countries and would not solve the problem on the basis of which companies could also be harmed through other legal channels. In fact, if the Institute of Silent Companies were to be abolished, we would only have abolished the mechanism administratively, and we continue to allow this kind of controversial action in a different way. Let us start by saying that we will support this amendment of the law in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia Club, because we believe it will be a more comprehensive area of conflict of interest. It follows the objective of horizontal prevention of conflicts of interest in companies. We are aware of the limitations of this law in the Liberal Democratic Club of Slovenia. We therefore share the view that this is only one step in the right direction. Without proper supervision, sanctions, as well as raising business culture in Slovenia, there will be no positive effects, but let us also adopt water-proof laws. Otherwise, the proposed amendment to the law is broader than it has so far limited conflicts of interest by stipulating that management may enter into a legal business with another company in which it owns, or with its immediate family member, or all of the total shares that reach a tenth of the basic capital, or that it is itself or its immediate family member a silent member of another company, or that it participates in its profits on any other legal basis, solely with the consent of the supervisory board or the management board of the company. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we estimate that such a restriction is most appropriate or in the circumstances. Notwithstanding everything written down and legally specified, we once again point out that a conflict of interest prevention instrument will not work unless a serious supervisory role is played by the supervisory authorities of the companies first called to control the management. Only in later stages can irregularities be detected by detection and prosecution authorities. The proposed law will be supported in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u11	Mr Willi Rezman has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Today, in the context of the amendments to the company law, we are actually going to decide only two things. The first is the Government's offer, which is: an attempt to limit the conflict of interest, and the second is an attempt to radicalise this basic purpose of the Government with the amendment. As far as the Government's first purpose is concerned, we will support the proposal of the law in the Parliamentary Group of Non-Aligned Members. We believe that it is right and that it is appropriate to try to limit the conflict of interest in a way that businesses must be, when it comes to more than 10% of the equity ownership, committed by consensus. So they are transparent, they are verified, they can be tested for their economy and their entitlement. Secondly, in a way that, when it comes to a smaller percentage of ownership, reports immediately and thus allows for the possible action of the Supervisory Committee, the Management Board or, at some point, the Assembly. We therefore consider that these measures are sufficient. We also believe that, as the Government has done, it is necessary to point out that conflicts of interest are also limited by a number of other rules that are not directly related to this abolition, under terms of reference, silent companies and that the recommendations made by the Government in its decision by the AUKN are appropriate, that we do not believe that they will also be functional. As far as the amendments are concerned, we are inclined to argue that it is not possible to increase fines so dramatically because it would be in conflict with another law, with the law on offences. Therefore, we cannot support this amendment, and we do not think that the figures collected for fines are the only possible, of course they could be different, even higher or lower, but they cannot be such that they are contrary to the law. With regard to the first amendment, we believe that it is too radical and that, in fact, it is an attempt to return the content to some six months ago, to the first proposal of the Group of Members, which at that time proposed deleting the provisions on silent companies, which also suggested that the procedure should start within 30 days and we estimate that this would be contrary to the general business practice in the world and that this would not in any way help to improve business and not even greater, better prevention of conflict of interest, as there are immediately different options that would be less transparent and that, as regards the responsibilities of silent partners, would be worse than the existing solutions. The Group of Non-Aligned Members will support the bill and cannot provide support for the proposed two amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u13	Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u14	Hello! The proposal for a law submitted by the Government is indeed a fulfilment of the commitment made at the consideration of the twice-considered proposal for a new law on companies of the SDS Group, which deleted the Institute of Silent Companies. The government has decided to resolve the irregularities that have been demonstrated in the past in the operation of silent companies on a medium-term basis, which does not mean that the Institute of Silent Companies itself is being wiped out, as they offer a wide range of positive implications, but to the greatest extent possible to eliminate conflicts of interest in these companies. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that the solution when the management of one company can enter into a business with another company in which itself or its immediate family member has more than 10% of its share on any legal basis is only with the consent of the Supervisory Council, if it has less than 10% of its share, and after prior notification to the Supervisory Board that such a decision is appropriate. We are convinced that this solution provides a goal that the opposition has already been bitterly advocating in multiple proposals of the same laws, and this is also a transparent business in the case of the continued existence of the Institute of Silent Companies in the Slovenian legal system. For this reason, we will support the draft law without reservation in the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you. Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Andrej Vizjak on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u16	Dear Minister, respectable colleagues and colleagues! Germany is the most important Slovenian trading partner when we are talking about EU Member States, and a recent survey between German economic operators has shown that Slovenia is becoming less attractive to the investment of German companies in us and for business relations in general. One of the fundamental reasons is corruption. So also German economists estimate that the spread of corruption is a problem for the Slovenian economy and for Slovenia at all. The same survey showed that because of the decline in the attractiveness of the business environment in Slovenia, we are up to a thousand to 500 jobs and that corruption is also one of the reasons for this. Slovenia has so far taken various measures to limit corruption, as well as a conflict of interest that leads to corruption. Various commissions have been set up, and we also now have a Commission to prevent corruption, from which some officials are making a fool, and we also have some legal prohibitions, which apply to officials, Members who are not allowed to engage in any economic activity, we have restrictions which companies are allowed to operate and which are not allowed to operate with the country, regardless of whether such an operation would have a positive or negative impact on the country. So there's an absolute ban. That is to say, I or respected colleagues sitting here, or those who are not sitting here, should not engage in any economic activity because the system in principle prevents conflicts of interest and, consequently, corrupt or any related action. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we also propose that the authorities of the management and control of companies in majority state ownership should not be at the same time silent shareholders of companies operating with these companies. In principle, therefore, we want to prevent this conflict of interest and resulting abuse and corruption. All tolerance leads to deviation and arbitration, whether this could affect or could not affect, and according to the Government's proposal, such information and the consent of the Supervisory Board is sufficient. We have a negotiating convergence of supervisory boards with administrations, because they also set each other's awards and a wide range of ratings for the management of these activities, and unfortunately we still have a relatively low level of responsibility, particularly in the management and control bodies of companies where the state is the owner. Therefore, we believe that Slovenia has not yet matured a market economy that can afford solutions in the field of silent societies known to traditional market economies. We have therefore already proposed solutions in the Slovenian Democratic Party, where we would completely delete the legal basis for silent societies and also sanction any innovative parallel of some cooperation based on the example of a silent society. Therefore, we have also written down that any business cooperation or relationship between society and members would be null and void if it were not entered in the business register. So we want transparent relations within this. Unfortunately, the government and this Parliament have repeatedly rejected this and the government has proposed a solution to the possibility that the silent partners would simply announce it and announce business relations and then the Supervisory Council would arbitrarily identify it. We believe that this is not enough and that this will continue to lead to problems. Perhaps that would be enough if the government followed our proposal and called on all directors and supervisors of state-owned companies to report whether they were silent partners. The government hasn't done this, these relationships remain hidden, we don't know how many there are. I am pleased that Mr Toplek has also resigned as a silent associate and we insist on our solutions.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u17	Mr Aloise Posedel has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u18	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the proposal for a company law, as well as amendments to the coalition, where they are such as to benefit from the implementation of this law. We could also agree with those who had already said in the introduction that the Government had responded correctly and in a timely manner to the anomalies to which some have pointed out that some even wanted solutions that would certainly become disruptive to business itself, economic activity, but today they can again be criticized for not being established. These societies are companies that operate everywhere in the world, and they also have their own positive thing. But it is true that in Slovenia, for everyone, such a good thing is found by individuals who take advantage of it. Even with the silent companion there was nothing different and therefore perhaps one proverb, it does not sound very nice, but it points to something that always "pig thoughts pig thoughts". Thus, we cannot and must not regulate everything, prohibit everything, say everything and write it down, because in this way we would certainly limit economic entrepreneurship too much with different administrative obstacles and thus become even more unattractive to foreign investment and to operate in conditions and in ways that foreign partners are prepared. We are therefore convinced that such a provision, which is now stated that in cases where an individual is a co-owner of more than a tenth of the capital in another company, in each contract, every business must be informed and decided by the supervisory board; or in another case, if that share is smaller, it must be notified within three working days. It is probably necessary to point out and appeal to what is missing in the Slovenian economy, so some individuals, some managers with extremely low moral, business and ethics have cast a black light on many others who work hard, fair and must continue to do so every day. We are also pleased to see the preface's assessment of the smoothness of the supervisory boards, regulators, supervisors. This is currently a major problem for Slovenia. I think the best assessment of this was given by former Minister of Economics, Matthew Lahovnik, who called it "happy family". And that's true, and there's probably too many. When individual senior officials sit in the supervisory boards of state-owned enterprises, state banks or private companies, this is certainly not good, so it is necessary to work forward and pay attention to what is going on – corruption. Therefore, years ago, it was so unreasonable to observe the efforts of some after the Commission’s abolition to prevent corruption and, unfortunately, too much in Slovenia and that this will have to continue to be opposed and reduced. What is likely to happen at the moment – and in the debate on the Committee on the Economy – is to be amended, supplemented by legislation, especially in the area where it is possible to play such employees, both owners and the most creditors, through the ever-new establishment and transfer of assets and what is good from the company to another company. Otherwise, this proposal is timely, good and I think it will eliminate all those anomalies, so we will really support it in the Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u19	We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the articles and amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. 2011. I am putting to the debate Article 1 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Here you go, Mr. Mag. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that. Therefore, the basic intention of the Government's Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Law on Economic Companies is that supervisors should be informed of the transactions they intend to conclude by a company controlled by a company where there is also a body of silent partnership management. So, the basis is to somehow familiarize the supervisory board with this kind of business. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we believe that this is not enough. We believe that this business cannot and must not be because it is a matter of conflict of interest and leads to the possibility of harming this company operating with a silent society. Why? Because of the fact that it is more than obvious that if a certain authority of the management or control of an economic society is at the same time a silent associate of another society, that it wants to hide itself because of its role in a company, then hide itself in this silent society. So why hide? Why hide your participation in a quiet society to the public, especially to curious journalists, and not ultimately to economic operators who are potential competitors of this silent society? Your Honor, did any of you ask yourself if, in this incredible favor of the president of the administration of Darsa to the SCT, this lady is by any chance not in any way involved in any business as a silent associate with the SCT? We have witnessed that, despite the fact that the SCT was known to be a tree in the story of forced settlement, and now we also see bankruptcy, Dars paid everything to this particular SCT with incredible ease, and that the SCT is still indebted to many subcontractors, which we have been considering in this House for some time. Well, we can't find out. We from the opposition have asked the Government to ask the authorities to run and control the company in the majority state ownership, whether they are at the same time silent associates of companies in Slovenia and abroad. The government said it wouldn't tell us because it wasn't necessary to ask these people. On the other hand, the government feels obliged to limit the prizes to these people. I think there's a double criterion or a double approach to a very similar problem. We had a concrete example – Mr Danilo Toplek, a long-standing, now one day in fact dismissed, the President of the Talum administration, was, and this is not speculation, a silent associate of the silent partner of the construction company Ptuj, which dealt with Talum. Look at that, respectable! If Mr Toplek, who, of course, is also the company's intended profit, where he is a member, how he, on the one hand, will be an impartial negotiator with this construction company for business, on the other hand, participate in the profits of this construction company because it is such a regulation. So, he's on both sides and he's interested in signing up a construction company for a good deal, because good work will also make a profit and something will drip into the individual's pocket. We are interested in how many of these relations are between directors, the presidents of economic operators' administrations in majority state ownership or how much money is being drawn, the "cuza" from these companies because of the interests of these silent partners, who are hidden, whom we do not know, we do not see because they are not registered in a business register. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we want nothing more than that all these relations are registered in a business register, which means that there are no silent societies, because the characteristic of silent societies is that these relations are not registered and are hidden to the eyes. It's our only interest. Therefore, we also propose an amendment to Article 1 to add Article 38a to Article 38a, which states that the management, procurator and executive director of an economic company must not engage in legal business with a company in which he or his family member is a silent associate of another company. If there is no such thing among the competent management authorities, the executive directors in Slovenia, then there is nothing wrong with it, it is no restriction. But if that’s what it is, thank God that such transactions are not to be concluded! Dearly beloved, I ask the Government and those who will support this solution to the government, whether you believe that it is useful for a state firm or for another company to have on the one hand a director who decides on the business of the company, including a state firm which is also a silent partner of the business partner of this company – therefore, hidden. I think it's an unhealthy relationship, a direct conflict of interest, because the same person appears on both sides of the business, that's what they call a subscriber and a supplier. Such a transaction is biased but not impartially concluded and is also at the expense of competition and constitutes a restriction of competition. Definitely, because such a company, such a business partner is privileged because the director has an interest in getting to work, while probably competition can only observe this nemo but he doesn't even know what it's about because it's in the background and it's hidden. That, Your Honor, is unhealthy. If you don't see it, God help you. It is unhealthy that someone may be the director of one company at the same time a silent associate of another company that operates with this company and of course cooks and never do business with loss, because it would be really funny, and probably payment hands are also respected, there is no payment non-discipline. Look. We have substantially limited this amendment and made it less restrictive than the original amendments or original proposals. We've made him very, very, very much so! This prevents one, I really don't know how the eccentric conflict of interest is, and we allow it, unfortunately, because amendments cannot be made, even the possible other conflict of interest caused by silent societies. I think it is more than right that such an amendment should be supported, but I know that many will have problems supporting this amendment because we are proposing it in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u21	Mr Rudolf Petan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Quiet company, just the name says something is going, like my colleague said a little earlier, for a legal "smug." Really, why would it have to be about something quiet, why should we have to hide something from whom to hide? If you have money if you want to invest in something, it's probably no big deal, but it's different if you want it to be quiet about it, that it's all possible to hide it, that of course it doesn't pay taxes, that's why it's quiet, because if it's public, then you should pay the tax, but you won't do business if you have a loss, that's how you're going to close the company; that's what you're saying, you're interested in doing business with profit. If this is done by those who run companies that are owned by the majority state, and then do business with themselves, that is to say, they hide profits, they hide to pay taxes, so it's a legal "smug" as one of my colleagues said earlier. Many will say that this is an institution they know in the West because we imported it from Europe. Yes, of course, they know her, because even when she was founded, those who understood her probably had the same aspect of hiding something; but the problem is somewhere else. Compared only with Germany, in the German Institute of Control, the institutions of control work and those who afford it quickly discover it. You will probably remember a good year ago what the German tax administration did for those who fled with their capital to Liechtenstein — a much less problematic matter. They paid EUR 5 million to someone who was molested at that bank in Liechtenstein to give them the names of all German citizens, all German directors, all German businessmen who fled there with their capital. Look, strangely enough, they found the director of German mail, which is probably something else in state property. Can you imagine?Oh, my God! What was the result — he flew immediately! Otherwise, he resigned because he did more wisely, for if you give up, he is probably a little more beautiful than being forced to throw you away. They did it. But strangely enough, in our media there was the greatest rhompom, how these German state investigative authorities had hoped at all. We had the biggest problem, in our media! Yes, of course! If we find that we have also found a visible member or SD star who led in Kidric's Talum, who did business with himself. And the human voice says that such directors of state-owned enterprises in Slovenia are still huge. Perhaps only those who are the loudest who talk the most about who is exploiting our forests — who is the silent companion there? You might want to think about it, you've probably all heard of it, but that's all there is to it. And it will continue to be said, because it is not possible that what we in the SDS have proposed would be that silent societies, because our supervision is not working, but that we avoid the exhaustion of state-owned enterprises at the expense of those quiet, private ones, so that this matter becomes public. But, no! Apparently, there must be some terrible connection here. There must be something terrible in the back so you can fight it like that. I'm sure none of you have any such company, I'm sure. That's why I don't understand why you're leaning your back on others. By chance, this case with Mr Toplak came a day, and this is because the silent companions of the silent society fought in the silent society. Otherwise, it probably wouldn't have come a day, and we'd still be saying that we don't have it. But that is not the case, and of course I support this basic intention of the law, but now, if this is the case, I can say that this law is a blissful thirsty, it will certainly not do any harm, but it will not do much good because it is based on some moral values. I agree with one of the speakers on your left who said this is a problem for us. If the moral values of these directors were not questionable, then I would not be able to face such a situation at all. It wouldn't have come to this, it would have been nice, it wouldn't have been quiet companies, it wouldn't have been the company's majority state-owned directors, and it wouldn't have happened. But that's because it's based on moral values, but that's how it is. And now the elephant again, if this one tells the supervisory board, the supervisory board, then the matter will come to the public. Yeah, what if he doesn't?Oh, my God! What if he didn't tell you? Finding the first silent society lasted — I don’t know how many, 15 years, or 10 years. How long will it take us now to find someone, given the "slick" of policies and leadership in state-owned enterprises? We probably all agree there's no point in losing words. Again, it is an elephant on some moral values that, we find, is not, because the supervisory authorities are not working. Even in the past, the SDK, which had control back then, was banned from controlling our companies abroad. Prohibited. What does that lead to? Exactly what we're talking about right now! It was forbidden by law, but nothing helped to alert the opposition here and then scream. The law of peace has gone through. Our control institution should not have supervised our companies in their businesses or establishments abroad. No, that's special! Yeah, well, that's paradise! Guys, get in there, get in there, get in there, get in there, get in there, get in there, get in there, get in there, get in there, get in The country gives you this, it offers you. And now the same thing is happening. No, quiet societies can't become public, you can still work there, moral values will make it clear. You'll tell me if you have more than 10%. Yeah, what kind of crazy man is gonna say that?Oh, my God! With us, when the supervisory institutions are not working, they even have a ban on controlling balances abroad. Hello!Oh, my God! Then we are surprised to learn with horror that the director of Taluma had a quiet company to deal with himself. We'll find out with horror! That's not possible! And this man is the President of the Supervisory Board of the second largest Slovenian bank! It's not his fault. Why shouldn't I be, if it's easy, but the ruling politics makes it possible for him. Then we're surprised there's some weird stuff going on. Unbelievable! And he has now resigned as CEO of the Talum administration, but the supervisor remains at the second largest bank in Slovenia. And that's still, and that's still easy. That doesn't make any sense. Unbelievable! Of course, this law will not do any harm, and the benefits are probably not great. That's a fact. I support these amendments of ours, and I still say that the law that we have proposed three or four times to make known to silent societies would still be the best solution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u23	Mrs. Breda Pecan has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you very much. I will not support the first amendment of my colleagues from the SDS because it seems to me, if I sum up my colleague Petan's statement that this is a mild-mannered thirsty, that this mild-mannered thirsty is both for the original text of the amended article and for that text. This is because if it is not possible to look at a stock book or a book about shares in society, then of course it is entirely irrelevant whether it is a 10% share or a zero percent share. Thus, the amendment to this Article does not substantially change things. I would not explain how I feel about silent societies, about the law or about the amendments to the law regarding their abolition, but I would like to say that I will support the other amendment. It seems to me that if there is a discovery that an individual has violated Article 1 of this Law, it is said, even though he has not said that a silent participant in a society that is supposed to deal with a company in which he is a member of the board, the supervisory board and the procurator, and so on, that it is worth more than EUR 4 or 5,000. That's why I'm going to support this other amendment, so I'm going to say in advance, I think it makes sense that for such violations, where it's essentially about – because money can't take away immorality. I completely agree with that. However, if immoral acts are already taking place, if there is even a violation of the law – or I think it is often necessary over the law – then it is necessary to hit the pocket a little harder and that is why I will support this amendment of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u25	Mr. Magg has the word. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you so much for saying that. We've been talking about quiet societies in this room. Personally, I think that this solution, which is proposed, is good and must be supported. Although I am very skeptical of silent societies, silent associates with us. In fact, in our case, some of the normal solutions that are normal in the world in Europe tend to go wrong and become abnormal. One wonders why we have silent associates or why this option is even possible and who hides behind these silent associates. Who are these silent associates? Do we have any important things that they could use? Do we perhaps have any policies that suit them and hide within these stories? Do we have any managers who are hiding, then, in one way or another, transferring capital between individual companies between their own property, so to speak, one way or another? I think it's a legal place. It's legal corruption and nothing else. And we defend that in the National Assembly instead of cutting it off. In recent times, it has been heard as an example, for example, of a company that is a supplier of public administration office material, as it is called, where a lot of money is flowing, that I will not say millions of euros to be owned by someone from Liechtenstein. Hello?Oh, my God! Hello?Oh, my God! What's that? It's a crime of no chance! I hope that the relevant authorities that are already working on this will get to the point. But some hiding behind something, behind quiet companies, I don't know about off-shore companies in Liechtenstein, Cyprus, the Cayman Islands, and I don't know where. Will this country be able to end this? Or are we going to protect this until the last drop of blood? Will we protect the flow of money to all ends and places? In two years of battle in Cyprus and Liechtenstein for 300 million euros. Will someone cut it? Will anyone ask why 300 million in Liechtenstein and Cyprus? And probably some kind of tax haven. And who does that? What are we doing in this country? I find it horrifying when solutions come — and we have also talked about these solutions — that might be a step in the direction that something is done on these anomalies to prevent or at least make it harder if it does not. Then we find a hundred and one excuse that this is simply not possible. It's possible! Why isn't it possible? At our next meeting, we will ourselves propose some such solutions to prevent such anomalies. And this money leak into the tax havens. These are also that I will not say tax oasis, but some other oasis — these silent associates. There are silent associates in the world — we know why. But with us, important politicians and others are stealing legally. Nothing else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u27	Mr. Aloise Posedel has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you so much for saying that. First of all, let me be clear why I will not support this amendment. I don't have any quiet company, I'm no partner anywhere, and I don't lean my back on anyone. Someone used to wonder why we were setting our backs. I will not support this change because I would like to live and work in such a country as Mr Vizjak painted before, Germany. There are silent societies there. Because if this were the crime scene you want to show, then probably the Germans, who were so effective that they found their postmaster in Liechtenstein, would have banned silent companies long ago. On the Committee on the Economy, we talked a lot about silent societies and talked about the positive why silent societies in the normal business world in other countries are why they work well. This is the difference between other countries and ours. What we have now heard, how this is only for a legal "smug" and just for the exhaustion of businesses, shows that the state of the spirit at this moment is such that we cannot find anything positive in any individual in any form. I don't mind on my way to Ljubljana listening for half an hour to people who are totally appalled at what is happening to us, to the situation, to one part even rightly, to the very right. But in the second part, it's so bad that someone should just turn off the light and bring politics from abroad. If we look at two cases today. I am appalled at what is happening to the forests – it is said to be a wood sale – and about what Mr. Žerjav said about the purchase of office materials. Guys, the guy who knows about crimes that know about something that's wrong is bound to report it! Not so in Parliament, when there is practically empty Parliament, say what is going on and that this is connected to silent societies and to everyone who is stealing. I will not mention Mr Toplek himself as a sinner what he has done, but that he has already survived three different mandates of the three governments, three political options and probably was a sponsor to all. Definitely. I can say yes, otherwise I wouldn't. That is why the way to solve problems is wrong, so that we will defile the law in such a way that it will not be as it is in Germany, but let our plot to hunt witches open it all up, who is a silent companion and what it does. The comparison with abroad is always good, and we must also have it when we are preparing the law, and this amendment is exactly the same. Basically, it's okay with me, I'm sure. Here we will not all oppose this, because we would protect, be anything else, but because then this law would not be comparable to legislation that is abroad. Then perhaps after a while again the question that Slovenia has legislation that is not attractive to foreign investors. Yes, some also come for a positive purpose, that they are silent associates, bring "know how" which is not said, and then they also get a profit out of it. It's perfectly legal outside, but you said the difference. We all know what they did abroad with the director of SCT and when they got, convicted, cashed and what was going on in Slovenia. That's what's worrying! This is not a problem of law, but of law enforcement, respect for law, morality and the functioning of the judiciary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u29	Mr. Visac, did you mean the replica? [[No, no, no. Good.]] Madam Minister has the floor. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I would like to make a few more clarifications on these amendments to the SDS Group. I must say that, at the time of the hearing, you have yet to amend the amendment and have deleted the fact that you must not make legal business with another society, so that now it remains that you must not only conclude legal business with silent partners. From this point of view, as we have said with our colleagues, this is in fact not such a bad solution, but the fact is that, given that we are talking about a law on companies, which is regulated not only by state companies or companies owned by state, but also by private companies, this provision can indeed be too restrictive for this law. As you know, we have said that for state societies – here we agree that there is a need to increase control. So far, we have resolved this by recommending that the Government recommend to the Capital Investment Management Agency that, in its capital investment management code, the country – that is to say where there are the most concerns and probably the most doubts about the irregularity and exploitation of these positions and of these transactions for some corrupt or any illegal purposes – in short, we have now resolved this in the Company Management Code somehow. Capital companies have written down in the Code that public law persons must include in their legal acts governing capital investments the incompatibilities of the performance of the management function. It is further specified that in order to safeguard the rights of a shareholder, a member of a member of the management and control bodies of those companies, this declaration shall be included, in which the candidate for that function must indicate that he is not a silent participant or, if he is, in which. In our view, this will have to be monitored and these statements made. Mr Petan then asked what if he did not say – well, that is what the fines are for, and in this case the deal is null if it is found. However, we have now considered with my colleagues that the amendment, as it is now ready and which would replace Article 1 of this Law, would undermine all those other provisions, which are also good, which concern family members, which are in fact expanding this scope much more, but we have thought – and in my opinion this is not a bad solution – so that, in amending the Capital Investment Management Act of the State, this could be further elaborated and incorporated into the Capital Investment Management Act of the State and would then be regulated by the State or by those who own most of the countries. Since we are looking at this debate in any way, it is all about companies that are state-owned, this is, say, one proposal. Then it's fine. As far as depth is concerned, believe me, we would like to see more fines for such violations found. If it is found that someone has failed to make a statement or in any way to break this law, there is now a fine of 4 000 to 5 000 euros, because it is a fine for an individual, and that is the most allowed by the applicable law on offences. While the Law on Offences allows for certain cases of higher fines to be imposed, those cases in which you can set a higher fine are taxively listed. For example, I have written here that fines may be greater if they are serious violations in the field of the protection of natural wealth, the protection of cultural heritage, social protection, taxes, excise duties and so on. We cannot solve this in this law because we would go over the law on offences, but, I don't know, we can make a proposal to amend the law on offences and in this article, which sets out cases where a higher fine may be imposed, we can also include an example of violations of the law in the area currently governing this area of silent societies. These are, for example, two such proposals with which, in my opinion, these concerns and this debate, or these solutions, which have also been given in the debate, would be appropriately incorporated into the laws. On this point, as I have said, I propose that we now confirm the law as it is prepared in such a form and try to bring these amendments into other laws. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u31	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you so much for saying that. You must know that river: the quiet water of the hills is roaring. And this river can be somewhat adapted to our economic reality – the silent societies of competitiveness are screaming and also undermining the economy. I think it's completely comparable. Madam Minister, it is actually good for me that you have said this earlier, where all things should be regulated. Given that we have already proposed twice a law on companies and the removal of silent societies and that you have twice refused this vehemently, I would expect the Government to come to the National Assembly with some comprehensive package of measures to remedy this area. Now we cannot negotiate in any way about where else the government would suggest anything, what an amendment and a solution. We expect the government to bring this to the table, in cases where specific proposals from opposition parties – especially SDS – have been actively rejected in this area. In these months of dealing with this problem of silent societies, the government, including your ministry and others, could come up with some comprehensive solution to these problems and problems that arise in this area. That would be normal to expect. Thus, in the National Assembly, we face some measures and suggestions that are merely seemingly trying to solve something. They're just seemingly trying to solve something, and there's nothing concrete and nothing serious about it. Nothing! Absolutely nothing will happen to this law in this area, because everything is still permitted in this way. How can we expect an ethical attitude toward those who have abused this institute? How can you expect them to do so? This is a circle of people who rotate after various functions between the economy and banking and carry with them all these projects and carry businesses and networks, these spider nets, all around. And now you expect these people to tell you in advance where they have a problem of not being able to take over — whether they will say so. Don't be an idealist! This hasn't happened yet, and that's not gonna happen. Even more! Even in cases where people are told and we know in advance that they are in conflict of interest, say Dr. Aleš Berk Skok was such an example, the Government insists on the appointment procedure for certain functions, such as the Insurance Supervisory Agency. There have also been several other such cases in this mandate. Even in the past and so on. In fact, you are building everything on some submenu so that those who have stolen property will approach the voluntary return of this stolen property. You have recently introduced such a law into the procedure – the Zares Group. I think this is a completely inappropriate approach to these matters. Speaking of these cases, how in Germany. With us, if this happened, like in Germany, to find the director of the postal bank, the defendant would be the one to get the diskette. He's sued for hacking into the system because he was working illegally because he got the data illegally and so on. The one who transferred millions of euros illegally will pay 10,000 euros in fines. Over four silent societies, these things wash away and you get nothing: they take 30 million, and eventually, if someone gets punished with 10,000 fines. What's that? More and more concerned about the fact that we are not even able to manage the state budget. In view of the way things are occurring, we can assume that, even on these systems financed from the State budget, many people who quietly participate, benefit from the funds, these funds are being drained — even so it is possible, given that this is happening in state-owned companies with a majority of state ownership. And then we gladly rent even credits to finance the settlement of the deficit, and then we return this money back through various quiet and other systems to the accounts, including silent accounts on various islands abroad. This is happening to us. If we are not able to respond effectively in this mandate when this problem is discovered, then it means that we are systematically and quietly supporting these matters. And not us who have proposed a solution, but those who have enough votes in the National Assembly to adopt the relevant legislation. If we were to delete silent companies, this problem would have been revealed and all those silent associates would have sailed away, as in the previous term, those who had dealt with parked shares and owned state companies. The same thing would have happened. But since you're preventing it, it means you're covering all these things. The money will be drawn up in this mandate, and you will leave a huge public debt to the citizens, which will be paid by generations to do so. If this is the objective of this mandate, then it is necessary to ask, until when and why at all. In fact, I am sorry that in this mandate we are facing so many political bluffs, political bluffs, apparent battles and so on. That's not necessary. If you want to do something, do something specific. These amendments at least partially improve and correct this legal solution that you have proposed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u33	Mr. Magg has the word. A visor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u34	Thank you very much. A few answers just have to be given. This amendment fully saves this article. In fact, it also defines these restrictions for immediate family members, which means that the managing authority cannot bear this burden of business on any wife or son or son. The third paragraph is important when we are talking about legal transactions which are contrary to the first paragraph, which means that it is also impossible to circumvent this institution. It's a pretty solution that some benevolence might have accepted, but these benevolents aren't by the government. That's one thing. Second thing. True, it is likely that for many in transition economies, Germany is an example. However, we must be aware, honourable Member, that Germany has a century-long tradition with a normal economy, a subsequent market economy, and we have been going on for the last 20 years to 50 years of some self-government socialism, and that is why we are still in some transition or post-transition period, and this probably also requires some specific solutions, that is why. Nor is it true that our solution prevents a private investor, foreign or domestic, from investing in an undertaking as a silent participant and from promising a dividend under this heading This article allows this; this article only prevents the same person who is a silent participant from managing or managing the company and that these two are engaged in business. Only this is the limit that this article introduces. This Article does not prevent or delete a silent society; it merely limits it to business between a silent company and a firm where a silent shareholder is a key management body. This is an exceptional reduction in the visa restrictions of the original proposals. I will ask the Ministry to read the amendment once again and then take a definitive position because I hope that it will affect a lot of people. We have already asked the Government to disclose these links between company directors and also between officials. I do not put my hand in the fire and I do not know if you, Mr Posedel – this is a specific question. Perhaps if Mr Golobič were here, he would ask directly whether he is any indirect or direct silent associate of Gozda Ljubljana, such as owner and concessionaire, owner of certain forest holdings and indirect owner of the concession and, of course, all the inflows from this concession, the exploitation of forests in this country. This is an open problem of these 30-year concessions, which has already been issued in this Parliament several times. These transactions were concluded at a time when Mr Golobič was very strong in the Liberal Democracy and, quite a bit of "saying-case" information was already included in ownership structures indirectly. Of course, I can't deny it or deny it, I don't know if you can do it, or if he can do it, it'll be very interesting to hear it. I believe that any such connections would float in the daytime. I also mentioned one link between Mrs. Priests from the SCT. I find it illogical to think of Darsa's benevolence to the SCT in the payment of accounts in a situation where the SCT is a tree in the abyss and subcontractors have run out of money, even though we have decided in this House that operators could be directly paid from Dars. But no, Dars has already paid over 95% of his bills to the SCT and actually paid off the whole deal. For the last time, on the Commission for Public Finance Supervision, we were unable to know how much is still unpaid if there is one. In fact, from Mrs Priest's non-response, we were able to understand that everything was paid in full. So I don't believe the Codex are going to solve this question, I don't believe it! Even if we change the law and make it restrictive, someone will still be able to break it, and we will not know if the authorities responsible for overseeing the implementation of the laws will do their job. Therefore, I believe that this solution is good at this time and during this period, and that we will be able to think about similar solutions to those children's diseases of transition to a market economy that is obviously not very small in this country, as is currently the case in Germany.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u35	Madam Minister has the floor. Here you go. Excuse me, Mr. Posedel. Do you have a replica?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you very much. I'm going to repeat what I said before: I have no company, I'm not a silent companion anywhere. This is the only thing I can say, and for myself I will put my hand in the fire, not even for you, Mr Vizjak, nor for Mr Golobič. But I agree with you that Germany has a long tradition. We, with such a attitude towards the country as we have been experiencing today or for some time now, partly also a bad government and such opposition, cannot be this tradition. For 20 years we know she's a little late in puberty, but you've been involved in this training, Mr. Vizjak! In this 20-year education, you have worked with a strong mandate at a time when the biggest property scams have taken place, and that is why we could probably have a slightly different relationship to these 20 years and now we would be trying to get together in the right direction. Since every puberty passes away, the question is whether a person falls completely or grows into a normal person. Look! By your way – because you have done virtually nothing, except that you are in front of everyone – in front of the cameras, in front of Parliament – you said that you are talking about Mr Golobič and about the forests. That's enough for you. And you don't have that basic respect, you asked. That's it. And this is already the moment, in this Slovenia, with such media degradation. Never again will this Mr. Golobič erase, 'the truth' – in the slogans – that he co-owners the forests and that he is over it [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Look, I'm talking about your way, which means that there is no basic human culture and respect, and that from this Parliament we poison and poison people who see, feel this crisis even worse. Just one more time: I put my hand in the fire, not for you, not for anyone else.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u37	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u38	Thank you very much. This solution that we propose is also comprehensive. This is now the answer to the fact that the other is comprehensive. It is comprehensive and at this point I would point out something and it was also visible in the debate, we are talking about purely concrete cases, and when we see what cases we are discussing, I see more and more that we already have all the mechanisms, that this kind of deviation and that it is also pouring money into the foreign and that there is a silent partner and that it is hurting society that we already have. We do have the Penal Code, which clearly states that harming society is a deliberate crime against society. The problem in this country is that no one reports such acts. And here, excuse me, my question to you too: if you know and if you have such suspicions about some illegal business, why don't you report it? I, as you know, reported such a business as soon as I found out. I understand that you can't just go to "relatives" but you can also get some more detailed information – and report such a deal! On this basis, judicial practice on how to solve these problems and the practice from which it will be demonstrated whether our legislation is really so bad in this area will finally be developed in this country. The problem is that there is no practice, and only by amending laws and introducing any restrictive provisions into the law, by limiting it to the maximum of all activities, will we not solve this situation. Even if we delete silent companies and they're not companies, they're not legal entities, they're business. I think it's pointless that we paint here because we know that those who have unfair intentions will do it; not under a silent company will work under another company. That is what I want to say to you, but I think that the solutions that we have actually come up with right now are okay and I agree that it makes sense to take these proposals into account in the area of state-owned companies, state-owned companies. As I have said, I will also forward these proposals to the Government and the competent Ministry of Finance to examine them and to include them in the amendments to the Capital Investment Management Act of the countries to which they will certainly be made. The same for the Act of Offences. I agree that such actions need to be deepened and that these fines, as set out now, are too low. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u39	Mr. Mag. A visionary, a short time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u40	Yeah, that's right. I only have one minute. I too, Mr Posedel, am neither a silent companion nor a silent associate of a silent associate. That's how I feel about that, pure conscience. Also, Madam Minister, everything we know is already going on before the judicial authorities, as far as we are concerned, regarding Talum and Mr Toplek. Earlier it was said that during the term of office – yes, during the time of the previous government’s mandate, a number of things flowed by day. There have been numerous incidents of economic crime, according to the local authorities. However, blaming the previous government for the day’s tide is just like blaming a doctor who discovers that he is guilty of having cancer.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u41	Anybody else want to discuss this? Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u42	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. I will only say a few words because they were asking questions about how it is possible that some are against such an amendment, and how it is possible that they are defending something else and it is implicitly an issue: who is the one supporting the bastards? Because it usually also mentions a name that is immediately put into a certain context, and now someone who does not think exactly like someone else is immediately questioned. Our debate, it seems to me, is bad in the sense that it is not ready for some graduation problems, to some graduation solution, not even to some degree, but insists on "out-out" either way. These solutions, which are out-out, are usually not good. I think it would be better if we looked for the right measure, so to speak, if we were to seek some proportionality, which takes into account that it is also possible to abuse in quiet societies, and which also takes into account that a silent society is not evil in itself. I think that this willingness to see in different forms of society and business is also something good this instant is too little, because we are too covered with media-exposed scandals and problems and all of us mentally leading there. In fact, we should strive today for what we will do in the future. And in the future, I think we need to take advantage of any option that can in any way help restore economic recovery. Even if it were a quiet society, thank God! If there's anything she can do to help, she's welcome. For example, silent societies are today diffused, but I do not see any particular difference. It is possible that silent societies may be abused as espouses are abused, as parts and shares are abused. Now we don't have any ambitions to stop everything from happening, because here and there, someone does something that they shouldn't. And also silent societies – because now your amendment no longer abolishes them, as did your proposal for a law from the previous year; therefore, here you have already given in. However, I think we should have some will to see in different forms of business also something positive. What would be so bad if there are people who are willing to invest either in financial means or knowledge or development, for example, close to them, in quiet societies, they don’t want to be owners and they don’t want to be involved in management — these are silent societies. They are not owners, they are not involved in management, yet they want to play a more active role than the role of a classical lender and thus take a more active role in greater responsibility. You know what happens in the event of bankruptcy, so they can't just avoid all the burdens that follow them by law. Therefore, I think that what has now been proposed in the form of amendments to the company law is still acceptable to us that this is still the right measure at this point. It may have to be changed again in the future, but now it is enough for us to have enough control, enough mechanisms to prevent abuse; but it is not possible to eliminate all of them in advance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u43	Anyone else want to discuss Article 1 and the amendment? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. I am putting to the debate Article 2 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. I think there's been a lot of talk about that, too. Anybody want to talk? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to seven. Agenda item — Defence Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications following a Shorter Procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr Jozsef Györkös, Secretary of State. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u44	Dear Presidents, ladies and gentlemen, Members and Members of Parliament! The main reason for the amendment of the Law on Electronic Communications was amended and supplemented in December 2009 by the European Union's secondary legislation on electronic communications. In doing so, both new Directives substantially amend and supplement the existing Directives of 2002 which were transposed by the existing Electronic Communications Act, the first version of which entered into force on 1 May 2004. Given the scope of the amendments and the completion of the Directives, a new law on electronic communications must be drawn up and adopted in the meantime. However, in order to ensure, within the time limit for transposition of the amended Directives of 2009, that the area to which the European Commission is particularly attentive is transferred, it has been stipulated that the amendment in question should be first prepared. I'm going to the content now. The most recent 2009 amendment, taking into account the then compromise proposals for amendments to the Directives, introduced an additional functional separation measure and the possibility of voluntary separation of a vertically integrated operator. Such an arrangement was possible and permissible at the time, even though it had not yet been strictly required. In the light of the fact that, at the end of 2009, published amendments to the Directives were necessary, in order to ensure the accuracy of the transposition and to ensure that such regulation would also be applied correctly and only as a last resort, minor amendments and additions to certain provisions were needed. However, the revision of the 2009 Framework Directive requires even greater independence of the national regulatory authority than has been the case so far. For the first time, it clearly provides that the Head of National Regulatory Authorities may be dissolved only if they no longer meet the conditions necessary for the performance of their duties, which are predetermined in accordance with national law. The Framework Directive therefore pursues the objective of strengthening the independence and independence of national regulatory authorities, with which the provisions on appointment and in particular on discharge are linked. We have such an independent regulator, the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications of the Republic of Slovenia, Apek. At the same time, the Republic of Slovenia still has an open preliminary procedure by the European Commission due to alleged large or under-restrictive discharges for the reasons for the Director of Apek in the existing Zek – this is a written reminder from the European Commission in March 2010 – and therefore this legal amendment provides for a new procedure for the appointment of the Director and the perpetrator of the duties, i.e. this is the new 116th Article. On 6 April, the bill was discussed on the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Progress, which adopted all the amendments tabled by SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS. This was an amendment to Articles 2 and 6 etc. The Government estimates that the legislative proposal has been improved in the sense of the overwhelming majority of the comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly through the amendments adopted by the coalition groups. At the same time, the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 6 was adopted on the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technological Progress without discussion, which added the fourth indent in the new 116.c, with a new reason for the discharge of the Director of the Agency, in so far as the work of the SDS Group is carried out in an unscrupulous, unscrupulous manner, or if it turns out that it is not suitable for the Director to perform his or her work in terms of working or professional quality. The Government considers the content of this additional, resolution reason to be very problematic in terms of compliance with European secondary legislation. By this provision, the European Commission, in a letter dated March 2010, had already taken a negative position. That is why I stress that before the adoption of this marriage novel, it is essential to remedy this problem, which has arisen and therefore the Government welcomes and explicitly supports, after the meeting of the committee, the amendment tabled by the coalition members to Article 6 of the amended proposal of this Act. The adoption of this amendment will remove the contested fourth indent of the first paragraph of Article 116, which was added to it by the adoption of the amendment on the Committee. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. The draft law was considered by the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development as the parent working body. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Mr Mag. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u46	Dearly beloved, all of you have a lovely greeting! At its meeting on 6 April 2011, the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development considered the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications. As you know, the College has decided that the law is to be dealt with in a simplified manner, and that is why amendments have already been considered, namely the amendments of the Coalition's parliamentary groups to Articles 2, 3, 6 and 7 and of the SDS Group to Article 6. In the debate itself, the speaker said the same points that are already here today, so I will not repeat them. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, however, drew attention to Article 6 of the novel, where the current regulation of the functioning of the Electronic Communications Agency deviates substantively from the regulation established for the functioning of public agencies at the legal system level in the Law on Public Agencies. The regulation proposing in the amendment the procedure for appointing the Director of Duties further restricts the application of the provisions of the Law on Public Agencies and, in the view of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Legislative and Legal Service notes that the content of those provisions should be re-examined. With these amendments voted, the Committee, at its meeting, confirmed this text of the law at second reading and proposed to the National Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u47	The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Anton Urh has the floor on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed amendment aims to harmonise national legislation with amendments to Directives in the field of electronic communications in two areas, which are particularly important for the regulation of electronic communications markets by an independent regulatory authority — the Postal and Electronic Communications Agency of the Republic of Slovenia. In accordance with Directive 2009/140/EC amending and supplementing Article 3 of the Framework Directive, it was necessary to strengthen the independence and independence of the national independent authority — the Agency, as shown in the provisions of the novel on the appointment and early resolution of the Director and in the precise and clear reasons for its resolution, while the procedure and reasons for the discharge are consistent with the amendments introduced by the new Directive 2009/140/EC. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the proposal for a law and an amendment to Article 6 proposed by SD, Really, DeSUS and LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u49	Mr Miran Györek has the floor on behalf of the SNS Group of Ambassadors.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u50	Thank you for your word, chairman. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the Ministry! The new law before us makes it possible to transpose the two directives of the European Union. Among other things, it amends or introduces into law more precise provisions concerning the appointment and discharge of the Director and the perpetrator of the duties of the national regulator — the Mail and Electronic Communications Agency. The new law on the status of the Director of Apec represents a departure from the legal system applicable to other public agencies. The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, led by Mr Gregor Golobič, has called for a public competition for Director Apek before the proposal for the law under consideration. Mr Gregor Golobič, despite the professional candidates for the Director, to whom the Official Council has also been positively identified, has neither interviewed nor selected any candidates. But the fact is that Apek has been leading the V.D. Director for a year and a half. This brings us to the idea that Apek is not an independent regulator, but that the current policy is strongly involved in its operation. Slovenia may expect sanctions from the European Commission, a notice or even an action for failure to appoint Director Apek. Minister Golobič, this doesn't seem to be a concern. The Minister's conduct regarding the non-titlement of Director Apek is clearly not good for the entire public administration. Public competitions are a waste of sand in the eyes, and potential, professional and capable candidates will no longer apply to the next calls, as the Minister's decision is about political affiliation. Members of the Slovenian National Party will certainly not be supported by law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u51	Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor on behalf of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The purpose of the bill is to ensure that national legislation is aligned with the amendments to the Directive in the field of electronic communications. In 2009, two Directives, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the Council amending the Directives establishing a common relative framework for electronic communications networks and services to access electronic communications networks and related devices and their interconnection and the authorisation of electronic communications networks and services were adopted in the field of electronic communications. These Directives are particularly relevant for the regulation of electronic communications markets by an independent regulatory authority. With us this is the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications of the Republic of Slovenia. Overall alignment with EU changes in electronic communications frameworks will be ensured by the new e-communications law being prepared, but this project is late due to the implementation of other priorities in the field of electronic communications, in particular the digital transition project. Among other things, the Directive strengthens the independence and independence of the national regulatory authority, says the agencies to ensure a more effective application of the regulatory framework. The independence and independence of the Agency, which now also means protection against outside interference, is also reflected in the provisions, in the appointment and in particular in the early discharge of the Director, with these provisions linked to each other. In accordance with the above-mentioned proposal, the law also contains, in addition to the renewed conditions for the appointment of the Director of the Agency, a precise and clear explanation for its resolution, and the procedure and limitations of the discharge reasons are consistent with the amendments introduced by the new Directive. Because of the solutions mentioned in the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications, the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia will support these solutions, as well as of course the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u53	Mr Andrej Magajna has the floor on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u54	Your Honor! Nice greeting, everyone in. The group of non-aligned Members will support the changes. The purpose of this law is to ensure that national legislation is aligned with the amendments to Directives in the field of electronic communications. The proposed legislative proposal provides in particular for a clear and predictable regulation in relation to legal certainty, as follows from the rule of law, Article 2 of the Constitution. This also provides for a constitutional principle of proportionality, including Article 2 of the Constitution, which also stems from the emphasis on the restrictive use of a possible extreme measure of regulation, functional separation, as well as restrictive possibilities for the discharge of the Director of the Agency before the expiry of his term of office. All in line with the now clear requirements of the amended secondary legislation of the European Union. This is mainly regulated by the law in a way that follows closely the amendments to the Directives, with appropriate reference to individual references to legal provisions. In particular, Article 116 establishes a new system concerning the appointment and discharge of the Head of the National Regulatory Authority, the Agency. The draft law contains new clear provisions on the procedure for appointing the Director of the Agency and the Acting Director. These are key issues and we will also support them in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u55	Mr Mirko Brulc has the floor on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u56	Your Honor! The proposed law is necessary for the implementation of European legislation, namely a directive amending two other Directives, whose main urgency is the abolition of the "ex ante" rules in force in this electronic communications sector, so that electronic communications can only be governed by competition law. This Directive introduces the possibility of a measure to separate a vertically integrated operator with significant market power so that this operator must transfer the activity related to the provision of operational access to an independent business unit. In the draft law, the regulator may impose vertical separation only after prior consent of the European Commission. The second intention of the proposed law, which has a greater weight, is to strengthen the independence and independence of the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications. This is what the law wants to achieve, in particular, through amendments to the articles defining the powers, the method of appointment, the right of discharge, and the prohibition of the performance of the duties of the Director of the Agency. That the law actually follows only the stated objective, namely the implementation of European legislation, has also proved to be at the very meeting of the home labour body. It was practically without discussion, quickly concluded, which is certainly due to the apoliticality of the law. The proposed amendment of the coalition to Article 6 is a consequence of the amendment adopted by the SDS Group's Committee, but this adoption was irrelevant, as its provisions are already defined in other articles of the Law on Electronic Communications. In the Group of Social Democrats we will thus support both the law and the proposed amendment and thus avoid multiple references to the same matter in the same law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u57	Mr. Magg has the word. Mr Branko Grims on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u58	Your Honor! In the SDS, we view this law as a law, which is virtually mere harmonisation with the European Directive, but in fact, given the proposed amendment and in view of its adoption, we can see that it is mainly the product of political transposition. Because you need to cut back a little bit into a story that concerns an independent regulator of electronic communications. In fact, it is hardly known in Slovenia that in the framework of political cleansing, with which the current government has replaced professional and competent people with politically manageable, professionally incompetent or otherwise to perform functions of incompetent people, has also replaced the director of an independent electronic communications regulator. That is why she has experienced an extremely severe criticism from the European Commission, the European institutions – which almost you could not find out in Slovenia, and this is unusual for the European Union, it must be a very serious matter for this to happen – and then the government, on top of all this political cleansing, has burned down in court. You couldn't find out much about that either. Gregor Golobič, who is the minister covering this area, boasted on some occasion that he controlled practically all influential media in Slovenia, and it seems that this silence about these scandals largely confirms that Mr Golobič knew very well what he was saying. This is now being done by the perpetrator of duty, which is not good and which is also not in line with the principles that the European Union wishes to apply in this area. Therefore, this law is adopted in order to cover up the very bad moves of the current government for Slovenia, which has also been disgraced abroad and, as it is said, has led to a very large criticism by the European Commission and has also caused the Government to burn down in court, but has not, in its subsequent conduct, taken a substantial further look at the judgment of the Court, but has gone on to political cleansing. It is now up to our follow-up to the fate of the fourth indent of Article 116.c, the only SDS amendment adopted in the Committee's consideration of this law. Let me read it so people know what it's really about. This indent is that the director may be released prematurely – in addition to the fact that he so requests and so on. I quote, "if he does his work anonymously or unprofessionally or if it turns out that according to his working or professional qualities he is not fit to perform his duties as Director". A self-evident provision, of course, allows someone who does harm in the field of electronic communications, which is of exceptional importance for a modern technologically developed society, as it is based on a variety of other economic activities, as well as in the broader sense of the word science as a whole, so that such a person can be replaced in such a case. To say that this solution is contrary to the solutions advocated by the European Union is purely sedition, in the light of the above-mentioned political cleansing. What was the main problem there? People have changed without adequate explanation, and such a clause is quite the opposite – it allows and even requires that any proposal for a resolution be properly substantiated by evidentiary arguments, can then be subject to judicial judgement, and that it is therefore in line with the European norm which requires that any action in this area be verifiable and that the procedure must be guided so that at any moment it is justified – that each move is therefore justified, since it only then gives, in addition to the high level of expertise expected from this function, an appropriate level of independence, but also that efficiency which is essential not only for the country of origin, but also because of the links that cross the borders of the European Union as a whole, its functioning and its economy. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] This is therefore a very serious area, and in the event that this article or this indent is deleted, this will mean that the ruling coalition advocates the director's unscrupulous and unscrupulous functioning. This then opens up completely different dimensions of the problem.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u59	Mr Aloise Posedel has the floor on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Honorable representatives of the government! In the Group of Members, we will indeed accept, confirm the proposal for amendments. In essence, it is only to harmonise our legislation with two European Community guidelines, and therefore there is no need for great explanations. We will also vote in favour of the harmonised amendment to Article 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u61	Thank you very much. Finally, Mr. Mag. Mr Radovan Žerjav on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Electronic Communications brings several European directives into Slovenia's legal order. The proposed amendment to the law deals in more detail with two areas: the procedures for ensuring the independence and independence of the regulatory authority; in our case, it is a post-mail and telecommunications agency; and the measure of the so-called functional separation of a vertically integrated operator which the Apek may impose on an operator with significant market power. This means that the operator must transfer all activities related to the provision of operational access to an independent business unit, but of course this is the extreme measure which the Apek can only use in the light of strict conditions and taking into account the fact that the relevant objectives cannot be achieved by other measures. Functional separation can, by reducing the possibility of discrimination and by facilitating verification and enforcement of compliance with non-discrimination obligations, improve competition in multiple markets taken into account and can be used as a means to improve the situation when there is no non-discrimination in certain markets. In doing so, it is necessary to ensure that the introduction of a functional separation does not deter the undertaking concerned from investing in its network and does not have an adverse effect on the consumer’s well-being. The provisions on the functional separation of a vertically integrated operator were already included in the 2009 final amendment in the Electronic Communications Act, and the current amendment complements the articles included in the 2009 amendment to the Act in order to comply with the Directives. The provisions of the amendment of the law which improve the independence and independence of the Agency, in particular the procedure for appointing the Director, the conditions for his appointment, the reasons for his dismissal, and the provisional prohibition on the performance of the Director's duties, are also important, and we welcome the members of the Slovenian People's Party. For the first time, the new third paragraph of Article 3 of the Framework Directive provides that the heads of national regulatory authorities may be dissolved only if they no longer meet the conditions necessary for the performance of their duties, which are predetermined in accordance with national law. By this provision, the Framework Directive pursues the objective of strengthening the independence and independence of national regulatory authorities, by which the provisions on the appointment and discharge of their leaders are inseparably linked. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we see no reason to oppose the amendment of the law, since in our opinion it governs an area which must be regulated under European Union directives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to this article, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled. 4. 2011. I am therefore putting to the debate Article 6 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups to this Article. Anybody want to talk? I can only see one hand. Mr. Grimes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you. We strongly oppose this amendment in the SDS Group. Let me go back to the opening part of the explanation to explain the whole story. Indeed, the political cleansings that have gone beyond all reasonable borders, carried out by the current coalition or its government over the past two years, have caused irreparable damage to Slovenia in many areas. Professional, good, right people have been replaced by politically manageable, non-professional, some even with questionable ethical and other standards, as has been seen in their conduct. This is also one of the fundamental reasons why we are witnessing such a breakdown in this country as we are at the moment, and why the current government and coalition are breaking up. Now her own political purges, her own behavior, are returning like a heavy boomerang. Whoever thinks that it is now possible to assess all the damage that this government has done to Slovenia with its political cleansing and other actions, should wait until autumn. I argue that it will only then be possible to assess those most negative dimensions of the catastrophic results of the current ruling coalition over the past two and a half years. This will in particular be evident in the area of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and the question of unemployment. You propose that this Article or the liability provision be deleted. Look at what's really written in that directive you're making excuses to. Once again, it is an empty excuse, because the government, with this novel and with its explanations, only throws sand in its eyes to cover up its own dispute over political cleansing, which is in fact the reason for the proceedings against Slovenia, not its legislation. This political cleansing against the former director of the independent regulator, who was executed before the final proceedings, without justification, is legally incorrect, the reason for the criticism by the European Commission and also for losing the trial in court rather than legislation. I would like to reiterate that. But the directive to which you speak is as follows: that someone who performs functions under a national regulatory authority may be replaced only if he no longer fulfils the conditions necessary for his or her performance – up to this point, but continues – or their duties as defined in national legislation. If you delete this indent, then your law covers only the first part, the conditions necessary for the performance of the function. Say, what do I know if the university took his academic title away from him, say, then this line would count. But don't say anything about the duties of doing your job conscientiously, professionally, and so on. This is the exact content of this indent that we have proposed and has also been adopted into law on the Committee. Furthermore, and in particular, I would like to point out that this indent also speaks of the right of those who have been released to request a statement of reasons and that the publication of such justifications is then mandatory. Interesting, isn't it, especially given the conduct of your government in the procedures so far. So this is where you mix apples and pears on purpose to blur the core of the problem. The proposal, which provides for the resolution and also sets out in cases where the infringement of whose duties this is admissible, specifically states as a reason the non-disclosure and non-professional work or other quality that is measurable in the results of its work, which is logical and also consistent with the principles of responsibility, as the European Union understands and advocates. This indent is more consistent with the previously quoted provision, since it also covers the other part of which I spoke — the duties defined in national legislation. However, if you delete this part, leave this part entirely out and again create a legal void; and I say that intentionally, because you will continue to mislead the public, what is at the heart of the problem when it comes to an independent regulator, in line with European standards in the field of electronic communications. You yourself have caused a bad situation here, caused extremely serious damage to the country of Slovenia, you have been saving this for a long time with the V.D. Directors, now you are changing legislation under the cover of coordination with the European Union. In fact, it is all behind this story that you overstepped left by means of political cleansing, that you violated existing regulations, that you violated even constitutional principles that require that every act be duly justified, that effective judicial protection is then possible. In this case, you have also violated European standards. And now, in order to cover this up, you want to adopt again – obviously, if you delete this indent – a law that will partially summarise the European norm, in the second part which, I say, is also essential, because, if I quote the directive once again, "the obligations set in accordance with national law" and can therefore also be a proposal for a European discharge directive must be laid down in national law. So you're going to re-adopt a flawed marriage. I suggest that you reconsider this decision to take into account also the warnings of the legal service which went in this direction, that what you had prepared in the initial proposal of the law deviated from the regulation which is normal in this area, which is normal in the legal order of the State of Slovenia. In this case, however, I remind you once again of this provision of the European Directive, which is of crucial importance and which – I declare – consciously, if you delete this indent – you only summarize in one part and the other part you completely deny or miss. As it is said, a proposal that allows someone to be relieved of a lax bride's work is more consistent with European standards than if this part is deleted. It is also the only one in line with the directive – this is interesting and you say it. But let us now look at this from the point of view of responsibility, from the point of view of the question that is certainly the most topical issue in Slovenia at this point: if you delete this article, then you delete it so that someone can be dealt with prematurely if it works anonymously or unprofessionally or turns out by measurable results, that it is not suitable to perform work according to their professional qualities. Domestically, if it causes permanent and severe remedial damage. If you delete this article, this means that you support that someone in this place can work anonymously, unprofessionally and cause much measurable damage to the country of Slovenia, and thus to the entire European Union. Well, please, come on! Therefore, I propose that you withdraw those amendments and leave the text, which is, I hope, sufficiently clear, entirely in line with the European Directive and its amendment, that it is once already amended and therefore the only appropriate solution for the legal order of the State of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u66	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. On three points, I would merely replicate or clarify in some way; for the first time, Mr Györek mentioned concerns about the perpetrator of the duty. So the date of the perpetrator's term of office is May 12th, so these are formal arguments and not perhaps the entries in today's newspapers. Secondly, as the settlement was burned in court due to procedural errors, the case was repeated, we never denied it, but in the second round the Director was legally dissolved. That's how there was no embarrassment here. Thirdly, I will be very formal here and I will quote, but in fact, the government must not find that someone is working anonymously or unprofessionally, it must be regulated by the expert bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to read one part of the European Commission's written reminder signed by Commissioner Neeile Kroes, who is also Vice-President of the Commission. Therefore, the Commission considers that Slovenia has not correctly transposed the provisions of the Framework Directive relating to the independence of national regulatory authorities with the provisions of the Electronic Communications Act, since the ZECOM provides that the Director of the National Regulatory Authority, that is, the Apek, may dismiss the Government if he considers that the Director is performing his or her work anonymously or unprofessionally, or if it turns out that he or she is not fit to perform his or her duties as Director, if the Agency fails to achieve satisfactory work results and if he or she violates the provisions of this Act and the rules adopted on its basis. Then in the following paragraph, "The European Commission therefore considers that Slovenia has failed to fulfil its obligations under Article 3 of the Framework Directive". This is a clear answer to why the amendment proposed by the Members should be adopted this time. I mean, of course, the amendment of the coalition, and once again, I would like to thank all those who will support the law and the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Yeah, I can see more hands. I'm opening the application. Mr Grimes, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u68	In just one sentence; when you read this, you made the same mistake again as the whole defending of the law. Restrict yourself to that part that is in line with the objective that you are obviously following while leaving the rest behind. Once again, the directive requires two years: on the one hand, the conditions which are important for the performance or appointment and, on the other hand, the duties. These duties must be defined in advance in law and, when they are being resolved, they are subject to an explanation which can then be the subject of judicial proceedings.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u69	Thank you. Anyone else? I can see one hand. Mr. Petan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. So it is clear to me why the Government wants to delete the fact that if it does its work in an unscrupulous and unscrupulous way or if it turns out that it is not suitable for work or professional quality. It's clear to me that if this stays in there, then we can actually suspend the whole government because it's doing the same thing. Clearly, they put it in there to delete it, because then the government can work on it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you. Anyone else on Article 6 and the amendment to this article? [[No, no, ……]] Then I conclude the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 8. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Insurance Act. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr Škrlec, Secretary of State at the Ministry of Justice, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u72	Dear President, honourable Members and Members, welcome! The National Assembly adopted the Financial Insurance Act already in 2004. It entered into force on 1 May of the same year. The reason for the adoption of the law was the transposition of the Financial Insurance Arrangements Directive. This Directive pursued the objective of establishing a related and efficient financial market and identified the conclusion of financial collateral in the form of financial instruments or cash. In this way, the European Community wanted to simplify and simplify the rules of the Member States on securities and monetary claims collateral. As a result of the general credit crunch and the need for bank lending, which is highly dependent on economic growth and, among other things, new jobs, it is essential – and this is also recognised by the European Union – to allow easier access to credit. However, credits are generally granted only on the basis of adequate insurance. Therefore, the reasons for amending and adopting the new directive are based on the Commission's conclusions that the set of financial collateral funds should also be extended to bank loans, particularly since the role of bank loans as financial collateral funds is already growing significantly in the area of European space. However, for the wider use of this means of insurance, it is necessary to ensure uniform conditions for the establishment of such financial collateral at European Union level while facilitating and removing national barriers to the establishment of such financial collateral. The single rules for transactions between central banks also promote the cross-border use of these collaterals. These financial collaterals are used in practice in different types of transactions in capital markets, in the treasury sector, in clearing systems and so on. This Directive has therefore been supplemented in order to facilitate access to financial resources and to reduce the cost of operating capital. Financial insurance may be set up in two forms; one is the transfer of a financial instrument, cash or bank loan to an insurance and the other is the establishment of a lien on such a financial instrument, cash or bank loan. The directive, which is now being transposed into our legal order, extends this set of financial collateral, which from now on also covers bank loans as a means of collateral, while at the same time uniting the conditions for all entities throughout the European Union's legal area with regard to the establishment of such financial collateral. The main objective of the novel is to allow for easier and uniform rules for the establishment of financial collateral whose object or asset is a bank loan. The bill thus removes obstacles and facilitates the process of establishing financial insurance. These are two obstacles that are being removed, namely the mandatory registration of the bank loan and the mandatory notification of the transfer debtor or the establishment of financial collateral on the bank loan. The draft law follows the definition of a bank loan as defined by the Directive. Although following this definition, it takes advantage of the option of "opt-out" of a clause that is a form of limited discretion and thus of a series of bank loans that can be used as a financial collateral, it exempts consumer loans – i.e. loans granted by the credit institution to the consumer. Such a decision is also a matter of caution and additional consumer protection in this area. Furthermore, the bill extends the range of entities which can conclude and establish such financial collateral, since, after consulting the financial sector, headed by the Bank of Slovenia and the economy, we consider it reasonable that the specific rules on financial insurance covered by this law may apply not only to large companies but also to medium and small companies, but only when they conclude or establish financial insurance with so-called supervisory financial institutions. Access to finance will also be facilitated for these persons, which is particularly important in times of acute economic conditions. In this part, the proposer followed the initiative of the Association of Banks of Slovenia and the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia. The proposal was also supported by the Ministry of Finance and Banka Slovenije. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak, Chairman of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u74	Thank you very much. The draft law on amendments and additions to the Financial Insurance Act was discussed by the Internal Policy Committee at its 31st meeting on 6 April. Applicant – Government, procedure – shortened. The members and members of the Committee had at their disposal a proposal for a law, an opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, an opinion of the Commission of the State Council on national regulation. Amendments to Articles 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7 and 8 of the Coalition's parliamentary groups were adopted within the time limit. The proposals, specifically Minister Zalar, presented the changes that the Secretary of State has just made in almost identical form. On behalf of the Legislative and Legal Service, Ms Valentina Marolt said that, in accordance with their powers, they had submitted to the proposal for a law certain comments which had been tabled by the amendments of the coalition groups. With regard to the amendment to Article 2 of the draft law, which subsequently adds a new substance to Article 2, paragraph 3, of the Law, the Legislative and Legal Service did not have any comments. The Commission of the Council of State has made a green light or approved the law. Without discussion, the Committee has adopted all the proposed amendments and before you is an integral text of the bill with all amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u75	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Magistress Sara Wheeler will present the position of the Slovenian National Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Messengers and Members! There are four global so-called card schemes in the world: Mastercard, Visa, American Express and Diners. We also include the fifth Chinacard, which has almost a billion holders, but is not so widespread in the world or Europe. Four global cards have almost 500 million users, even in Slovenia we have them. Three of them are or operate under the cover of banks. The only single is Diners' card. From 1. On 5th this year, Diners Club Slovenia d. o. o. will be registered in the Register of Banka Slovenije as a payment institution, which is in accordance with legislation. The Government states in the explanatory memorandum that the proposed Law on amendments to the Financial Insurance Act fully assumes the definition of a bank loan as set out in the amendment of the Directive, but uses the "opt-out" clause offered by the Directive and as the subject of insurance excludes bank loans where the debtor is a consumer, except where the beneficiary of the insurance or the guarantor of such bank loans is one of the institutions listed in Article 2, paragraph 2, paragraph 2, of the Act, namely the central banks of the Member States, the European Central Bank, the International Monetary Fund, the European Investment Bank, the Bank for International Settlements. The reason for such a decision is in the additional protection of the situation and the exposure of the consumer to legal traffic. It is not known that Diners Slovenije is authorised to issue consumer credits. We ask the Government whether, according to the law, the consumer is exempt? Can it come through lex specialis through the back door as defined in the cited Directives? We've read the directive ourselves, and we haven't found any answers. Since we agree that the most important protection of the consumer is, we ask for clarification. But we will certainly support the marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, welcome! The primary reason for the adoption of the Financial Insurance Act in 2004 was the transposition of the Arrangements and Financial Insurance Directive. The aim of the European Directive was to establish a linked and efficient market and to define the procedure for concluding financial collateral through the use of different forms of financial instruments or cash, thus simplifying and simplifying the rules of the Member States of the European Union on securities and monetary claims collateral. The directive is also intended to introduce a scheme that would provide lower transaction costs for borrowers and a higher level of security for lenders. In 2009, the European Parliament and the European Council adopted a new directive which interferes with the area governed by the Financial Insurance Act. As this directive also needs to be transposed into the Slovenian legal order, the Ministry of Justice has prepared a new law on financial insurance B. The main objective of the paper is to standardise the rules on the establishment of financial insurance, the subject of which is a bank loan. The Directive, which introduces this primarily, is based on the findings of the European Commission, which concluded on the basis of the analysis that the set of financial collateral funds should also be extended to bank loans. The Commission has also responded to the trend of increasing the role of bank loans as financial collateral. In order to ensure a level playing field for all European countries and citizens and to remove national barriers to the establishment of such financial insurance, it was necessary to draw up a directive at European Union level, which is the basis for the amendment of the law that we are discussing today. It should be pointed out that the amendment does not bring a comprehensive directive into our legal order. In this case, the Republic of Slovenia took advantage of the possibility of the said distinction, the so-called "out" clause in the financial loan cycle, which can be used for financial insurance, exempt loans granted by lenders to consumers. Therefore, the decision is due to the provision of additional consumer protection in this area of financial insurance. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we expect that the novel will have a positive impact on the financial and economic sectors in our country, which will also support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u80	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. All external circumstances indicate that the law is very good, because there was no concern among mass consumers, at all, among the usual political opponents, no controversy on the committee, no debate on the home work body. The amendments were adopted without particular consideration and thus show that this is one of the proposals of the law that has been adopted in general. We, too, in the group of unrelated Members of the Solidarity Act, provide our support. This is because the reasons given by the applicant are justified either to comply with the Directive or to unify the internal European market or to expand the range of insurance measures and we believe that this is worth supporting. The objectives outlined by the proposer are also the same as they would want to achieve them as much as possible. The second question is whether they may have been written emphatically or not. We believe that, of course, everything that is necessary must be done in order to bridge the credit crunch, so that the broken liquidity ties are restored. We believe that it is right to make it possible to make loans as cheap as possible, to make access easier and everything else as possible, which is still a target. Of course, we are not so sure that measures and expected targets will be achieved in this sense, as some of the expected effects have been written down; that this will have a particular impact on the recovery of the economy, so that we can raise economic growth in order to significantly increase competitiveness, the number of jobs and consequently social security. This is the ability to read either implicitly or explicitly into the material that we have had the opportunity to read, and all of these are, of course, the goals to be pursued, but it is likely that this instrument, which is now being introduced, is one of the very many necessary instruments and directly of what very large contribution, we are afraid, will not give. Otherwise, the law is, as we say, well prepared and acceptable to us.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Bogdan Čepič will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you for your words, Mr Vice President, nice greetings from my colleague and colleague! The Social Democrats' Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Insurance Act. The amendments introduced by the current amendment to the law could be divided into two areas, namely the harmonisation and implementation of the European Financial Insurance Directives adopted by the European Council in our legal order. It is important that we follow the systematic rule of law in the field of all forms of financial insurance. In the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that the decision of the Government that all forms of financial insurance are regulated in one place or in a single law is correct, since this area will be regulated in a fairly transparent and comprehensive manner. Secondly, the area or supplement governed by this amendment to the law is that a bank loan can also be used as an instrument of financial insurance. The European Union Directives in this field allow bank loans to be used as a means of using financial collateral. In adopting the directive, the members of the European Union were aware that the economy, particularly in these times of crisis, depended heavily on the lending and operation of the financial sector. However, credits are generally granted only on the basis of appropriate insurance. Therefore, the reasons for the amendment and adoption of the new directive are based on the Commission's conclusions that the set of financial collateral funds should also be extended to bank loans, especially since the role of bank loans as financial collateral also in the area of European space is growing significantly, and it is right to put this option into our legal order. However, for the wider use of these insurance assets, it is necessary to ensure uniform conditions for the establishment of such financial collateral at European Union level while facilitating and removing national barriers to the establishment of such financial collateral. The single employment rules between central banks also promote the cross-border use of these insurance schemes. As a result, the new law extends the set of eligible financial collateral, in addition to cash and financial instruments such as shares, bonds and other securities, adding as an appropriate asset or subject to collateral bank loans. At the same time, in accordance with the guidelines of the directive, the novelty lays down easier and uniform conditions for both domestic and foreign financial institutions in the establishment of such financial collateral by means of a bank loan. All of this will lead to more intense competition in this area and, consequently, better access to credit both at national and European Union level. In the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that the benefits will be felt indirectly both by consumers and by debtors. Such an assessment is also made by the Commission of the European Union in its opinion on the implementation of the Directive into national legal order. The main objective of the novel is, therefore, to allow for easier and uniform rules for the establishment of financial collateral whose object or asset is a bank loan. However, the amendment does not take full account of the definition of a bank loan as set out in the Directive, but rather exploits the possibility of so-called opt-out clause, meaning limited discretion, and thus from the range of bank loans that can be used for financial collateral, exempts consumer loans, i.e. loans granted by the credit institution to the consumer. The reason for such a decision is caution and additional consumer protection in this area as well. Although the novelty is directly concerned or regulated by a relatively narrow circle of financial entities, indirect positive effects are also expected on the economic sector. In the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that the effects of adopting this amendment will have a positive impact both on the financial and economic sectors in general, both at Union and at the Republic of Slovenia level, so we will also support the amendment of the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Dear colleagues and colleagues, Mr. Secretary of State! The proposal for the amendment to the Financial Insurance Act, which we have before us in second reading, transposes the Financial Insurance Arrangements Directive into the Slovenian legal order. The amendment of the law defines entities and the scope of the use of bank loans as financial collateral. Formal conditions hindering the use of the bank loan as financial collateral shall be removed. The Directive by which the law is coordinated requires Member States to transpose or harmonise the provisions by 31. 12. 2009 and the provisions must apply 1. 6. 2011. As it is clear, the Government is very little or very familiar with this work and has at the last moment recalled the implementation of this Directive, especially since it is a law that can have indirect effects on the economy and should be adopted earlier. This law will facilitate access to credit, which should allow for greater protection of weaker clients in lending relationships and ensure equal treatment of all creditors in insolvency proceedings. We are also asking about the way and the approach to the preparation of a legal novel that transposes the content of the Directive of the European Union, since it was on the home labour body to the tenth articles of the law, this is the right article, contained in the law adopted by seven amendments. We believe that such a relatively simple law could be prepared by the Government in better quality. In the SDS Group, we will not oppose the law. However, we believe that its adoption would be necessary earlier, and we also express the expectation that it will bring about a positive shift in the economic situation in Slovenia and that it will allow order in the financial market, where large actors now dominate. We will not oppose the late draft law because the aims of the directive are positive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u85	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u86	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary, distinguished colleague, distinguished colleague! The amendment of the Financial Insurance Act, as has already been said several times today, is about the implementation of the European Directive concerning the final settlement of payments and securities settlement systems. In this way, the European Community is trying to simplify and simplify the rules on securities and receivables insurance and thus to increase the transparency of credit operations throughout the European financial market. The fact is that in recent years the financial crisis has greatly exacerbated the situation in the credit market. The largest lenders, banks, have gone into liquidity problems, credit ratings have fallen dramatically, thus also making it available to cheap money. For a certain period, there was nothing to help reduce interest rates or draw fresh cash into the system by the European Central Bank, and companies were still having difficulty obtaining fresh investment money. The directive we are introducing today in our internal legal order is one of these attempts by the European Union's financiers to resolve the situation. It seeks to facilitate access to financial assets and to reduce the cost of operating capital by expanding the set of financial collateral and clearly defining and defining bank loans as a means of collateral. However, in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, it would be appropriate to draw attention to the following facts, which may be of much greater concern to us. While the financial market situation in the European Union as well as in other developed markets is normalising and when the most critical banking groups have been rigorously rehabilitated following rapid procedures and are already playing their fundamental role in providing financial resources in the economy, we are in Slovenia, unfortunately, still part of the normalisation of the situation. While many European banks have fallen into the spiral of stock market collapse because of reckless investment policy, ours, mostly state banks, have become involved in lending, which had nothing to do with common sense, let alone banking market rules. Today, such loans are known by citizens and citizens under the name of Taiwanese credits or credits intended for the management of businesses. It is right to say this publicly and repeatedly that the global crisis is not solely responsible for the current state of Slovenian banking and that it has only helped to reveal the allocation of enormous funds to individuals, of course with a political omen. In the Slovenian People's Party, we hope that this directive will also directly help Slovenian companies, especially in a way that will make it easier to obtain funds on the international market, because I fear that the domestic banking market is not yet sufficiently competitive with its offer. In the Slovenian People's Party, we would like the competent ministries not only to introduce directives dictated by the EU, but to further encourage the circulation of money in the area of credit. Recently, we recapitalised the New Ljubljana Bank through the budget, and an additional deposit is now being announced in the New Credit Bank of Maribor. But where did they ensure that this money will end up in the hands of a Slovenian entrepreneur and Slovenian companies competing with their products on a demanding global and European market, or will this money end in covering past losses and improving the estimates and liquidity criteria of these banks? Ladies and gentlemen, in the Slovenian People's Party, we will support this amendment of the law, but at the same time we stress that this measure will be a drop into the sea if the situation in the business and financial environment does not improve. It would be best to adopt a long-term national banking strategy as soon as possible so that we do not deal with each bank individually, but systematically and professionally decide where we as a country will remain passively involved and what we will leave completely to the free market. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u87	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! This law amends the law that has been in force since 2004 and has implemented into our domestic legal order a directive aimed at simplifying and simplifying the rules of the Member States on securities and monetary claims insurance. Today's novelty follows the news proposed by the European Union in the new directive, with a view to facilitating access to credit, which can have positive effects on the economy and its recovery and, of course, have a beneficial impact on employment. The amendment of the law extends the range of insurance in such a way that it also covers bank loans, which thus become financial collateral funds. This opens up greater lending opportunities for financial institutions, as mutual commitments can also be secured through a bank loan, either by transferring the loan or by establishing a standing right on the loan. This financial collateral instrument in respect of credits will be able to apply both to large companies and to medium and small ones. The Directive should be transposed into the national legal order by the end of the previous year and the provisions will have to apply on 1 June this year. In the DeSUS Group, we will support the novel. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u89	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will be made today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to nine. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments to the law on judicial service. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Mr. Skrlec, Secretary of State, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Dear Members and Members! You have a proposal for a new Law on Judicial Service. This is a novel, which is inseparably linked to the amendment of the Law on Courts, which will be considered as the next item in the agenda and is also a direct consequence of this novel. The linkage of this novel with the Law on Courts relates to the question of criteria for determining whether the judge has special competence and experience in the allocation to specialised departments. The law also defines the manner in which this award is to be granted and the position of the judge in relation to this award, also deals with the possibility of shortening the allocation period or the duration of such allocation. The law also allows progress to be made in the course of its career system, including when it is allocated to the Constitutional Court or the Ministry of Justice. In the rest, the changes are linked to the regime supported by the proposed amendment to the Law on Courts. The proposed amendment no longer lays down the conditions for a judicial assessment by the judicial service of compliance with the conditions for faster or exceptional progress and deletes the condition of active knowledge of at least one global language for judges in a specialised section. In practice, these two conditions have proved to be so strict that they are met by a smaller number of judges when required cumulatively. This puts in particular the specific competence and experience of judges in matters falling within the competence of these specialised departments. By extending the trial to four more District Courts in the higher courts, it removes a significant obstacle to the greater involvement of judges in the work of the specialised department or departments. However, the most important changes or solutions brought by the proposed law in addition to that are the additions to the criteria for the assessment of the judicial service, which encourage the participation of judges in the drafting of regulations and the improvement of regulatory arrangements. It is also possible to make progress on assigned judges at the time of their appointment to the Constitutional Court or the Ministry of Justice. With all the changes that this amendment is following, the proposaler wants to pursue the following objectives. These are the establishment of specialised sections of the courts that conduct investigations and are involved in more complex cases of organised and economic crime, terrorism, corruption and other similar crimes. It regulates the transposition of the provisions on the allocation of judges to specialised sections of the Law on Courts into the Law on Judicial Service for the sake of better systematicity of this area, ensures the promotion of also assigned judges and complements the criteria on the assessment of judicial service with a view to enhancing the efficiency of the work of the courts and judicial work in its entirety. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u91	Thank you. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. I give the floor to Dr. Vinko Gorenak to present the report to the Committee. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you very much. The proposal for the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service was considered by the Committee at its 31st meeting on 6 April; the proposaler — Government, procedure — was shortened. It was appointed by the College of Presidents of the National Assembly. We had the opinion of the legislature, the basic text of the law, the opinion of the Council of Justice and the opinion of the Council of State. The representative of the Legal and Legislative Service, Mrs Kralj, said that the shortcomings raised in the written opinion were largely and adequately addressed by amendments from coalition groups. The Council of Justice, Mrs Vesna Pavlič Pivk, has said in addition to their opinion, which shows that the Council of Justice does not support this law, that they have the same objections to the Law on Courts. The Committee then adopted amendments to the SD, Zares and DeSUS groups, as well as to the LDS Club of the Member States, to Articles 1, 2 and 4 of Articles 5, 6, 8 and 9. The Committee has also voted on the integral text of the bill, it refers to the version of the amendments that have been voted on, and it has been adopted. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u93	Thank you. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u94	Thank you for your word. Hello again! The Ministry of Justice has already demonstrated by its work that a comprehensive and systematic approach to changing the justice system of the Republic of Slovenia has been taken. Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service, together with a proposal for a new Law on Judicial Courts, creates a pair of couples whose introduction will bring the necessary systemic solutions for a more effective prosecution of economic crime in the Republic of Slovenia. The spirit of the law itself, followed by the proposed amendments to the law, stems from the pursuit of the basic principle of effective judgment in more complex cases of organised and economic crime, terrorism and corruption. In recent years we have witnessed an increase in economic crime in Slovenia. The task of the justice system is to effectively prosecute crime of all kinds, and the task of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia is to provide the justice system with all the tools it needs to carry out its tasks effectively by adopting appropriate legislation. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are convinced that the amendment of the law with the proposed amendments responds adequately to the challenges facing the Slovenian justice system. The proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service regulates the question of criteria for determining whether the judge has special competence and experience in the allocation to specialised sections of the courts conducting investigations and judging in more complex cases of organised and economic crime, terrorism, corruption and other similar offences and will be established on the basis of a new Law on Courts. The new law defines the way judges are assigned to specialised departments and only the duration of the assignment. The conditions for assigning judges to these sections are amended by proposing amendments to the law by placing the criteria for the special competence and experience of judges at the forefront. The practice has shown that the existing conditions for the appointment of specialised judges are so restrictive that they have been met by a smaller number of judges, which has also been reflected in the relatively low interest of judges in the appointment to a specialised department. At the same time, the bill also regulates the progress of those judges who have been assigned to the Constitutional Court or to the Ministry of Justice and have not been able to do so now. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are convinced that an effective judicial system is the result of the cooperation of all three branches of government – executive, legislative and justice. The tasks and responsibilities of each of the three shall be clear and duly defined. The Ministry of Justice, by means of a proposal from the Judicial Service Act, responds adequately and comprehensively to the problems encountered by its professional services in the field of investigation and trial in cases of serious crimes. We will support the law in the Liberal Democracy Club because of meaningful and effective solutions, but we will not support the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u96	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! In the Group of Social Democrats, we support all government proposals aimed at a more successful prosecution of crimes, especially the most serious crimes of corruption, drug trafficking and the like. We support the resolution in an organisational way in order to ensure greater accessibility and more appropriate conditions for the participation of judges in the prosecution of these crimes and to ensure greater efficiency on this basis, as, in particular, in improving the effectiveness of these serious crimes, it also creates a sense of efficiency or less of effectiveness in the field of justice. The proposed amendment to the Law on Judicial Service, which, as Mr State Secretary has said, is linked to the amendment to the Law on Courts, is in fact a result of the amendment to the Law on Courts, and is intended for these findings. The amendments and additions to the Judicial Service Act therefore relate to the regulation of the allocation of judges to specialised sections of the courts that conduct investigations and are involved in more difficult cases related to organised and economic crime, corruption and other serious crimes. In the opinion of the Government, the bill-proposer, these proposals are reducing, perhaps even removing important obstacles to the greater interest of judges in working in these specialised departments, which has not been sufficient so far, partly due to local remoteness and less opportunities to arrive at their workplace relatively in a relatively short time, partly due to the specific conditions required by the law, and partly because their progress and other conditions have not been sufficiently enabled. It therefore brings an important novelty to complement the criterion on the assessment of the judicial service, which encourages the participation of judges in the preparation of regulations and the improvement of regulatory arrangements; progress will be made possible by the award of the award to a judge at the time of the appointment to the Constitutional Court or at the Ministry; the condition of the judicial assessment of the judicial service in the last six months as a condition for the fulfilment of the criteria of appointment, as well as the criteria for the knowledge of the foreign language, which has in practice proved to be difficult for judges to apply to this place. We believe that in this way interest can be increased, that there will be more reported judges to work in the following four specialised departments. This is why we support the bill, but not the proposed amendments, which do not go in the direction of the objectives outlined. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you very much. Once again, my dear! We have two bill proposals before us today, which are sort of twins' marriages. In the SDS Group we have carefully examined both the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service as the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts and have also consulted experts from the judiciary about both novelties of the Law, and have come to similar conclusions as expressed by a broader section of the Law, than the Council of Justice through the Criminal Department of the Supreme Court and the Judicial Society. The amendment of this law is based on the amendment of the Law on Courts. In a second attempt, it introduces specialised sections of the courts that conduct investigations and deal with more complex cases of organised and economic crime, terrorism, corruption and other similar crimes. This law regulates the allocation of judges to these specialised departments of district courts, which are not yet established, of course. Since we adopted the Law on Courts, which envisaged the establishment of a specialised department at the District Court in Ljubljana in this mandate in 2009, and this law has collapsed in a claurine way, we in the SDS Group believe that the concept proposed by the Minister will not be sufficiently achieved and thus constitute a delay in more demanding criminal proceedings in matters of organised economic crime, terrorism and corruption. Since, in the first attempt to establish such a department, the judicial administration failed to provide an adequate staff force for such a department at the District Court in Ljubljana, which is the largest and humanely best court in the country, there is no hope that this time the judicial exam of the Minister of Justice and the Government will be successful. While the law provides for some incentives for the participation of judges in specialised departments and allows progress to be made at the time of the award, the predominant opinion within the judicial circles will not be significantly affected and will not increase the interest of judges in the transition to a specialised section. As the Council of Justice correctly points out, these amendments to the law will require a huge new internal organisation and not necessarily a faster and more effective trial. We are therefore convinced in the SDS Group that the adoption of this law and its twin, the Law on Courts, would have the opposite effect. As a dominant opinion, many of these matters will become obsolete and, in our view, this motive is also behind the government's apparent efforts. If the entire profession does not see the possibility of a more effective trial in more complex cases of organised and economic crime, terrorism and corruption and other matters, then why does the Government persist? It is a deliberate blur and a deliberate delay – in our opinion. In addition, the way and procedure we accept this today in the National Assembly is evidence. Instead of first considering a law that is the basis for the establishment of courts to which new or new courts are appointed in specialised departments, we first consider a law that sends a judge to these departments, which we have not discussed at all. It's a deliberate blur so the public doesn't know what's going on. The laws are written likely and appropriately with the intent or practice of the old regime to always promise something new, some big changes that will now bear solutions. We know that there are many things in justice and in timely trial that need to be corrected and sometimes the courts cannot. Only with such changes do the justice ministry and the government bring the justice system and courts into even greater difficulty, greater embarrassment, greater backlogs, and I stress once again: there is as much economic crime as possible in the background, because you are aware that in these proceedings, in fact, only your adherents are. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u100	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary, colleagues and colleagues! It is somewhat unusual because the amendments and additions to the Law on Judicial Service here in the National Assembly are dealt with one point before the amendment of the Law on Courts is discussed, since it is a matter of laws that are substantively linked. But it's not really in this marriage, it's in the one that comes on the agenda as the next. But I will say a few words now and the rest in the next position. If I touch the direct regulation of the judicial service. The proposal for this law primarily governs the allocation of judges to specialised sections of the courts who conduct investigations and are involved in more complex cases of organised crime, terrorism, corruption and other similar offences. However, the establishment and functioning of these sections is envisaged, as we say, by a proposal for a new Law on Courts. This provides for a shorter time limit for the allocation of a Judge for the resolution of cases under the jurisdiction of specialised departments. The basic criterion for the allocation of a Judge for the resolution of cases under the competence of the Specialized Section shall be specific competence and experience in matters to be dealt with by specialised departments. The criteria for the assessment of the judicial service with a view to the participation of judges in the preparation of regulations with a view to enhancing the efficiency of the work of the courts and the justice system as a whole are also complemented. All of this sounds nice and right, but many of the warnings from practice indicate that it is in this segment that it is complicated, because the criteria can change quickly into a free arbitral decision on the effectiveness and suitability of judges by the Supreme Slovenian judicial system, that is, some key people. The actual independence of the Slovenian judiciary could be discussed long and wide. In the Slovenian People's Party, we would like to see the system of awarding and also evaluating judges, their advancements and redeployments, in short, all that has to do with the judicial service going in the direction of decentralised organisational arrangements. Thus, a person gets the feeling that with key changes in staff at the top of the Slovenian judicial system, a system is being set up to decide or make key decisions under strict rules of vertical decision-making down the hierarchical scale of justice. This certainly does not, in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party, contribute to the greater independence of the Slovenian judiciary. I'd only say the following for now. The Council of Justice does not support the proposed amendment of the Law on Judicial Service to the amended proposal of the Law on Courts. Although they agree with the principles and objectives of the legislative proposals, it is simple to believe that the solutions proposed will not significantly improve the current situation. Therefore, we will not support the proposal in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u101	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Your Honor. All in attendance have a nice greeting! These novels and novels of the Law on Courts are two amendments to the judicial system, which are defined within the Government's priorities as necessary for the effective prosecution of economic crime and corruption. As this novel is linked to the amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, it is understandable that, with the support of the news concerning the establishment of four specialised investigation and trial departments in the most challenging cases of economic crime, organised crime and corruption, we will also confirm the amendment to the Law on Judicial Service. This determines the manner or key of the allocation of judges to specialised departments, regulates the procedure necessary for the implementation of the allocation and the award criteria. These include the opinion of the judges of the criminal department of the competent higher court, the duration of the judicial service of the judge in the criminal field, the assessment of the judicial service and evidence of specific experience and additional professional competence in criminal matters. The position of the judge to be assigned to such department shall also be regulated. In short, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that a further step will be taken by means of a proposal to amend and supplement this Law and the Law on the Courts in an effort to improve the judiciary and more and to speed up the criminal cases of corruption, organised and economic crime, terrorism and similar crimes. The aim of establishing specialised departments is to date in autumn. In view of the fact that investigations and complaints are in line in recent times, it is also appropriate to support both novelties without delay in order to establish the proposed organisation as soon as possible and that the work of the judges will begin as constructively as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u103	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendment tabled to be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled on 20. 4. 2011. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Yeah, I see your hands. I'm opening the application. The application is in progress. Mr. Jerovšek, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you very much. See, as has already been pointed out, this bill and the solutions it brings out is welcome. But if we look a little bit at what the judiciary is thinking about and what the government's real purpose is for it, then we see that we have to strongly reject both proposals for the amendment of laws, because this is going in a completely different direction from what is written on paper. The paper has written down positive principles on a more efficient, faster trial, but it has also been written in a new law adopted in 2009, the Law on Courts, to establish a special specialised department at the District Court in Ljubljana for these purposes, for organised crime. But it's been two years since then, and nothing has been done. The Minister is such a good knower of the District Court in Ljubljana that he obviously knows how to delay the trial of these worst cases of economic crime and corruption. And, ladies and gentlemen, you know that there are important members of your authority involved in these matters. The last case is Zoran Thaler, where it was needed abroad to reveal the case and the way it was operating. And don't speak today, from the Justice Department, to achieve positive effects if the whole judiciary says that they will only deal with the organisation in this way. With regard to the change of organisation and other organisation, the Minister is also a master. But it is very wrong, unusual and repulsive for all people to be aware of it in advance, and yet face such changes. The current legislation, as judges, the judiciary and the Council of Justice have said, makes it possible, with good will, to support policy, to start an effective trial and that some things are also passed on so that specialised judges can be appointed and so on. So you don't need a cardio that forever promises some change that will save everything, some part of "deus ex machina" as it happened in Greek dramas, a miraculous solution that brings nothing. I must stress that you are using the most unacceptable tricks, and that the country is bringing hundreds of millions of counterfeit money to state banks in terms of decay, economic crime, the crime of white collars, which swallows and swallows new businesses. Citizens must recapitalise and invest in individual banks over and over again. There's not a single complaint here! How can new departments handle such matters if there are no complaints at all, but if the repressive authorities do not prosecute them? Because it will be difficult to persecute the most exposed people of this power who have received millions of prizes and so on. Don't date those laws you're stalling with anymore! Colleagues and colleagues, I call on you to reject this perfidious game of authority that, on the outside, waves with new solutions that will bring solutions, is essentially stalling, is doing everything for the statute of limitations of crime. We know which authority adopted the amendments to the Penal Code 10 years ago, which reduced the obsolete deadlines that allowed for free fraud and theft. We know how perfidious some judges have forgotten to write judgments. But it's not the law's fault. This is the political will and guidance and guidance of power. Such procrastination guidelines are also contained in this law and the following law, and this must therefore be rejected and our amendment envisages such rejection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thank you very much. It is almost impossible to talk about this amendment and talk about this law that we are discussing without the law that is coming. The Law on Judicial Service actually regulates procedures, while the law that is yet to come governs the organization. If someone were to read the magnetograms of the minister, the secretary of state and the coalition members two years ago, they could actually say that something like this is happening today. Two years ago, we did what? We have established a specialized department for the trial of the worst cases of economic organised crime, etc. When I asked the minister with a question from the Member State in early 2010, when will it be established, I received an answer that it is not that there is a deadline – what do lawyers say? – the instructional nature to work on this will be established. When I asked him six months later about what is now, whether this department will be established or not, he replied that he was working hard, looking for judges to establish it, but he failed because they did not apply and that he would repeat the invitation to tender. After nine months, nothing happened, after 12 months, and after about 18 months, we have a new marriage on the table. This new law says we won't have one division to try in these cases, but we'll have four departments. Take a look at this matter now, Secretary of State, Minister, perhaps you will hear something – because Minister: here in here, here out, we go ahead, all to win, to charge, or whatever. The Council of Justice said, "No!" Come in. The Supreme Court and the Judicial Society both give negative signals because, after all, the same people are intertwined; or in other words, the entire judiciary, the entire judicial branch of the government, which the Coalition highly respects, appreciates, particularly when it comes to independence, etc. – all this profession said to the law: no. They even said they agreed with the specialty, not the new organisation. They make it clear that the existing legislation fully allows judges to specialize in these tasks, to carry out these tasks, and they want to carry out them as they say. But they oppose — what? They're opposed to new organizational forms, all of them. Ladies and gentlemen, what the Minister is doing is exactly the same as some kind of forced treatment. If the patient refuses to take the medicine, he will not be treated at any cost and will be treated by his doctor. You will never be able to impose a solution on the judiciary if that is not the case. So, it's not about nagging opposition Members, not saying that, the judicial branch of the government doesn't accept it; and they wrote that, they said. They also said alternative solutions and said that specialised judges – yes; they agree with everything else, but do not make new organizational forms. I must say that this time I very much agree with them, because the new forms of organisation mean a new boss, deputy, secretary and ficus, which could possibly be established under this legislation, and there will be no judges who will judge because they do not want to because they do not oppose it. It doesn't make sense! Certainly, as far as the judiciary is concerned, a number of other measures are needed. I'm even saying surgery is necessary because it's a cancer patient, and the minister walks around with penicillin and says, "You're okay, your condition is fine," says the minister. It's not like that. See, this law will also happen exactly the same thing: we will therefore set up four specialized departments instead of one, the minister will issue a call that he will not apply to, and the train will go on. Instead of listening because I think they have a smart proposal in court this time, which says you should appoint specialised judges. I think it is even a better option for a basic reason, because it is not only four courts in Slovenia, but they are such specialists, if you want, in all other, comparable courts. I don't know why – for example, I'm going to say from Velenje. I do not know why from Velenje now find one judge, refer him to this specialised department in Celje – Velenje is relatively large, but Mr Kontić I see, I believe there are a lot of judges there, and certainly there are such judges who want to judge in such more complex forms of criminal suspicions. What happens now? Now this judge — and that's exactly what this law on judicial service is talking about — will get in the car in the morning, let's say he's at home somewhere in the White Waters, he'll go to Celje to work, at state expense, of course, because he'll get travel costs. Then he'll judge Cele if he does, and then he'll be back at the state expense again this afternoon. I don't understand why, if they're offering a better solution themselves. Leave me in Velenje and give me some hard files. That's what they want! But the Minister doesn't; you'll be driving from the Whitewaters to Celje. Why? I don't know, I don't know what the courts in Velenj are like, but maybe they're even better than the Celjes, I know they're very old. No! No! We're forcing him into something that won't work. But the consequences are then there, as Jerovšek was saying: because the trial in these difficult cases will not happen, because the judges will not come forward again, and it will all come to an end — and gradually become obsolete! I don't understand. I have to say, I don't understand this situation. I don't understand the Minister's stubborn insistence; but he knows he made a mistake once! Because he knows he didn't do this specialty department in Ljubljana because he couldn't. Now he's going to do four — yes, how? I would really expect from the coalition Members, even in the light of yesterday's events, if I may say that those who have won the most in the elections are actually slaves of those who are outsiders. Now is also the time, given yesterday's events, to really think about the cases that I have just said and to really think about the law and to really reject this law because it is a reasonable act. Or accept this amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u107	Thank you. Anybody else want some? Here you go, Mr. Secretary.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President! From what we have heard, the situation in the field of economic crime is alarming, and crime is comprehensive. The law, which seeks to introduce a little more efficiency in this area, is referred to as one who is actually supposed to prevent the fight against such crime. The prevailing view is that these solutions, which are in this law and in the law on the courts, are actually harmful, as we have heard today from the presentation of opinions and also from the debate. I find that very difficult to agree with. In fact, if we look at statistics on solving more difficult economic crimes, corruption, abuse of the situation and similar crimes in recent years, we will see that percentages of convictions are below 5% compared to the perpetrators or acts under consideration. It is therefore difficult to say that the situation today is such, in fact, that it is good in the field of economic crime or the fight against economic crime. Slovenia is relatively effective in fighting classical crime, and that is good. It is not good, however, that it is relatively ineffective in the fight against economic crime. This novel, which is before you – today we are talking about this point in the Law on Judicial Service, but of course it is referring substantively to the Law on Courts, as my predecessors have also said – is trying to make a breakthrough in this area. The establishment of the department you mentioned was one of these steps. In order to establish this section in 2009, very strict professional criteria were laid down, which must be met by the judge to qualify for such a job, in such a section. These conditions were such that, in fact, he had to meet the conditions for faster or even exceptional progress and the judicial assessment should not have been more than six months old. There must have been another foreign language. At the same time, those novelties predicted that they would drive to a centralised location, that was the location in Ljubljana, or that the department was situated in Ljubljana, and that the trial would be held in courts where the case also belonged locally; that is, in that court where the locality is, which means that the judge, I don't know, could drive from Kopra to Novo Gorica or Mursko Sobota if it were a matter under the jurisdiction of the Murska Sobota. All of this, of course, caused it to be difficult to get candidates for such a department. That's why you have a proposal to upgrade this idea. The idea is simply to bring together a specialization that we have talked about a lot. My predecessors also mentioned her as one of the solutions to the problems. Of course, specialization is a solution, but there's no specialization unless there's a set of people to specialize in. In order to ensure such a selection of candidates, centralisation and centralisation are necessary to attract matters that are substantively complex to one location and thus allow for a more focused treatment. One location, I speak in a translated sense, of course, in this case this law means four locations of higher courts. Such a specialization in four locations, namely the district courts in the seat of the higher courts, Maribor, Celje, Ljubljana and Koper, was also discussed by the Supreme Court in its opinion, which you mentioned by my predecessors. In fact, as a proposal for a solution, they propose specialisation of judges in these four courts. And that's exactly what this law offers. The problem raised by the Judicial Society was mainly related to logistics and travel throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. It's gone now. The courts in which such specialization will be made possible are focused on four locations in the country that I previously listed: Maribor, Celje, Ljubljana and Koper. This means that accessibility is increased and, at the same time, because of the concentration of the number of judges who will be able to judge in these sections, there will be a significant increase in the number of judges available from the areas of the entire territories of the current four higher courts for each individual section. This means that the number of judges, of course, will be larger. Conditions are a little bit more popular, more lifelike. Due to the removal of logistical travel problems, it is reasonable to expect a better response from judges. In this law, however, there is another possibility that has probably gone somehow beyond the criticism of these solutions. In fact, they already exist in these courts, which are the county courts, criminal departments. In these criminal departments, the President of the Court will be able to deploy specialised judges with an annual schedule. So the system will be able to work, unlike the system we have today, which is only connected to applications. As a result of all this, because this will allow for a better quality of trial in shorter periods of time, since these judges will, of course, only judge matters falling on such a section in the light of the criteria of complexity and also of the catalytic definition of a certain type of criminal offence, this will mean that these judges will work exclusively on such matters and will devote all the necessary attention to these matters both in terms of professional knowledge and in terms of procedural leadership, which will allow these proceedings to proceed faster and not slower. It is therefore not possible to accept that this legal amendment will constitute a delay in judicial proceedings. Today, you say, is a possible specialty. This is in fact also the position of the Council of Justice or the Council of Justice prefers to seek solutions within existing legislation. This existing legislation has been the same since 1995 and has not served to date with solutions that would be appropriate to what we are facing. However, we are facing a great increase in economic crime and we are also facing a great increase in the damage caused by economic crime. And now to report to the government that he's trying to regulate things and at the same time insisting that it's more to leave things unsettled, I don't think it's constructive. This proposal, which is before you today, follows a simple objective: that these cases will be experienced by a judicial epilogue and that the numbers below five per cent today will be raised to numbers that will be significantly higher than 5%. In fact, the investigation of economic crime, if it is not accompanied by measurable decisions, I do not say necessarily convictions – of course every case cannot be condemned – but it must be judged, of course it is not what we want. We want those acts that have been detected, those on which the detection authorities are working to also experience a judicial epilogue; and that at a time that is rational and appropriate, and that there is no obsolescence. Therefore, it is obvious that this legislation essentially causes and leads to some inefficiency that I must most decisively reject and reject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u109	Thank you. It's still an interest after the debate. I'm opening the application. Mr. Gorenak, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, you said we were unconstructive – as it were – in the opposition. If this is true, then you are zero effective, completely ineffective. In 2009, you made a specialized department for the trial in these worst cases, then you waited, and you looked into the air until 2011, which is now being written, and you concluded that the matter was wrong. You're ineffective. You figured things weren't right, so you came here with a new marriage. Look, if we look ahead, there's no connection to talking about the fight against crime, and making excuses for police statistics. You're using police statistics, or you're using the D.A.'s incriminating motions. In a court of law, take a look, you will find a case of light, such as the case of a judge in the Clean Blade case. Everything else is gray and it's really gray! And you've made this bad gray — you know when? In 2009, you made it; in 2009, when you said that the guaranteed salary was the 46th salary class, for every judge who first comes to chess, that is to say the same to the university professor. Then why worry about something? There's no reason. A 30 - year - old who is guaranteed a salary grade of 46th to death may even come to — here, the Vice - President of the National Assembly, or even there. Why would a man like that worry himself? There's no reason! Then, if he's not in control yet, which he isn't, it's a nice life. Then why would he apply for trial in these specialised departments of yours if he could earn the same in Velenj as in Celje? And why would you deal with a bad case if you could use a shoe thief in a store? It's easier for him, but it'll be even more effective. Well, there's no reason! You're talking about, at the time, strict conditions were that they were now a little less strict. Okay. But you're not going to change anything again because it can't be changed that way. You're saying there's gonna be a bigger set of people. No, we have xy judges in Slovenia, you know better how many there are, than I do because you have more. But there are so many, and then it doesn't matter if he's sitting in Velenj, or sitting in Lenart, or sitting on a Murski Sobota. The point is, he'll judge and he'll judge well. True, it would also be good to stimulate him to do so. In the previous term, we had mechanisms to stimulate judges, they had several additions that depended on the quantity and quality of their work, and that the Presidents of the courts could use this. How will you stimulate them today? Why would I go to trial in this department? Why would I deal with the Waller? There's no reason why he can be tried in a case involving a hen thief, where the perp is very well-known because the police are bringing him to his place. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] With chickens worth it! This number of judges you speak of is the same; as he is. Leave it where it is, give him challenging cases and, of course, allow yourself primarily to be rewarded. That's the point, but now you can't put them on the ceiling. It's a joke! There's no way a jury can solve this case. Traveling through Slovenia – yes, how did you do them? Those from the White Waters will still have to travel to Celje or whatever if you put him in a specialised department. What if I can go to Velenj? Bring the case to him, bring it to him. And what's most important, I'm going to repeat again: the trial is against. You can't force them to do that. We would really need two new constitutions in the field of justice to force the judge into something. You can't force them and you're ineffective, you're not gonna do anything about this system! Listen to them. After all, you're talking about the Council of Justice as an organ, an institute that I don't know how to respect. Well, then, respect him! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! These two laws, which are basically twins, about the judicial service and about the courts, are typical cases of the present time. There can be no better comparison. The profession says no; the minister or the government: yes, that's exactly what it must be. There are judges, I think the judiciary, the Supreme Court or the Council of Justice – because in the final stage it does not matter, they are some of the organs of this court and they are all against. It is not so long since we have heard in these dishes how it is necessary to listen to it, to respect how it should not be disturbed by its priority, how it is "oh and at all", and now all of a sudden their word is void. Minister, the Ministry is kicking as a bulldozer with his head through the wall, so I said it was a typical example of the present time. This is also the case in other areas where there is no social dialogue, there is no need to talk, the government goes like a bulldozer through a wall, and then they are surprised that there are referendums, and they are informing our guests who are coming to Slovenia. I don't know, the representative of the lower house of the English Parliament is the first to ask the opposition party when we met with them, but how come you have so many referendums on some pension system? Yeah, who's informing him? Government officials, you're gonna tell us how ugly we are in the opposition because we want something. When we explained to them that the government was going through the wall with his head, they were a little more clear. And this is a typical example of the present time. I would understand that you have prepared such a proposal, O.K., but why not, then you were told by the court that another proposal would be better. I don't know. I mean, this proposal could have been withdrawn or something. At least we'd listen to them! No, not here! A typical example of the present time: if you are someone in the government of ideas, then you have to go to the end, regardless of the victims, whether the entire profession is against. Now I want to know something about how you imagine government representatives that such a matter will be successful if the entire profession is against it. I understand that they're individuals who don't fit, and I understand that. Okay, it doesn't fit anyone. Here all, the Supreme Court, the judiciary – I don't know who he was – were all against. How will such a thing work? No way! Now we'd have four of these specialized teams, probably in four different places. But so far you've tried to get one together, and you couldn't. One didn't go, and four will go! I can't imagine. To some extent, you'd understand that you're advocating decentralisation, dispersion, if that were to be general, but look at why you're trying to do the opposite with police administrations and obstetrics. And there to cut them in the field and unite, concentrate. Then what's the difference?Oh, my God! Something's really wrong, it's not about concentration, it's not about dispersion, it's about how good it is. And since you imagined that you would terminate the three police administrations, you would terminate them. Then, to some extent, I understand Mr Kontić, who has proposed to be in Velenj instead of in Slovenj Gradc. I totally understand him. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Or an extra one. He'd give extra, but let's just say he's not dealing with the other one. Apparently, there's a tendency to see something out there that's supposed to be in the field. But you're not consistent, you don't have the same approaches in all areas. If it applies to one area, it would be approximately the same as the other. However, I cannot agree with this that if instead of now one you couldn't get together, you'd have four of those teams that would be bigger. Yeah, from where?Oh, my God! Are you going to settle them with the law?Oh, my God! It's not working. Something's not working out. If you couldn't get one together, how would you get four of them?Oh, my God! That's not working out for me. I'm thinking a lot more about it, because I'm from the country, but still, they say that a farmer's mind counts for something. I'm not getting along, just because you're going to write in the law that four teams, four in four areas, will have a bigger set than you have now when you're in one place. It doesn't work together. I don't think that's going to work out with peasant logic, but I don't think it's going to work out in practice, unless you guys figure something out. You're saying that this is exactly in terms of fighting crime, crime and delinquency and the worst things. But where is the guarantee if you write in the law that instead of one section, one team will now be four? But now you'll be more successful if you haven't been to one. It's not going together! It's not working. One more thing. Speaking of success. I can't imagine how successful we could be, but if we have such processes as we have seen them lately, let's say against Erjavec, the party's president, and earlier to the minister, for the sake of the ministry. By the time the charge was written, it was likely that sparrows were sneezing that something was not decked because it was probably politically motivated. Such processes cannot be successful unless it is statistics that the process is completed and the process is unlocked. That's another thing, but as long as such trials are conducted in the courts and will be given the greatest epilogue, so long in court something won't count. There's no way, because this is a political matter! And if it's still closed, that's even nice! To close the process, then it's an ideal area for imagination if we want, and for teasing, if we want, and for accusing just like that, over, because we haven't seen it. It's for a lush imagination. And these days to close down processes for the most difficult ones – but not for all, just for some, but some will be open. The documents will probably be leaking out before that judge gets the charge, and for someone some media will be dedicated and will be published. But if the defendant publishes that proposal on his website – hopa, now we will lock him up, how he hopes! And some media outlets can publish that. As long as there is such a situation in the judiciary, I say in general – not specifically this, specifically them – you will not be successful for so long and you will not be helped if you have 50 such departments, 50 such teams, nothing will go through because there is obviously someone else running the bike. If you cancel the judges, the judiciary, the Supreme Court, the Council of Justice, if they tell you something, but it doesn't matter to you, but it probably counts as something else, what political recommendation, so long nothing helps you to change the laws in this sense that instead of one section you will have four dispersed. He won't! Nor will you have a greater number of judges, nor can you gain anything by law, we have already found in the previous system that if we have changed the law, the matter has not yet been spalled, if not all the other components that allow it, from control forward. It won't work. It'll just be hard to change the law. There will be something else to be done. That's why these two laws, the one we're considering right now, and then the other about the courts that are kind of twins, don't seem appropriate, they seem strange to me – if the ministry cancels or fails to take the whole profession into account. Unless you're trying to say that the profession is somehow otherwise motivated not to accept anything. But that's another thing, if you're going to say it, only then you have to make it clear, but I'm not quite sure you'd be so united. That way, I will not support these two proposals. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u113	Thank you. Anyone else? I can still see the hands. I am reopening my application for debate on Article 4 and the amendment to this Article. Mr. Jerovšek, please. Mr. Anderlich, I'm just going to sort you out as if you've made the application. Mr. Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u114	Thank you very much. See, we are often critical to the effectiveness of the judiciary, but at this point and in this case we must take the stand of judges and judges who rightly point out the hidden purposes of the Ministry, how to discredit judges and the judiciary when we have two laws on the table that bring solutions that we know will fail and then judges will receive new criticisms and new accusations based on these laws. We have a law that tries to block normal trial in matters of economic crime and serious crime and corruption and so on. Previously, the Secretary of State said that there were too many criteria for judges. Judges have a judicial exam and can specialize and educate within the courts, which must be a permanent purpose. Whether they will now be tried, I don’t know, by engineers or by someone — just as it was immediately after the war, when the Senate who condemned the people and the supporters who ordered the verdicts to the judges. This probably won't be reintroduced. For this reason, I reiterate, this amendment to the law and the following law, colleagues and colleagues, for these reasons, it is necessary to protect the integrity of the judiciary, that judges — those who have a good purpose, and most of them — can be judged on normal terms and that they will also be tried. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u116	Nicely greeted! We have heard that this is not going together, that it wants to do much worse in the judiciary, in the whole and so forth, than it has been before; that there is no efficiency, which is, of course, lapsus, even that there are no serious convictions; see how some trials are ending, and so on. As I know, and as I understand it, anyone who is sued may be forgiven, or the judgment may proceed differently than the defendants anticipated. I believe, too, that tomorrow it will be proven that you were wrong when you sued me and demanded a closed trial and we barely opened it. But of course that's your business. From 2007, of course I'm talking. But I really do believe that it will not measure the effectiveness of the court after it is effective only if I am convicted, but not if I am forgiven, because there is no evidence of any charge, at least so I am sure and it is possible to conclude from the data. And that's what's really important about this thing. Here, in this Chamber you accuse, judge, analyze and, of course, criticize the performance or failure of the entire system without looking and wanting to listen to the proposals that are proposed if you say: it does not work, you are not successful. The government finds out, proposes solutions, and you say no. What are you trying to prove? That it is better that it is not effective, that it is not successful, that there are no closures and that whatever is proposed is only for a conscious extension of procedures and the failure to resolve matters or the failure to complete processes when it comes to the most serious economic crime and other forms of crime. This really isn't working out. If there is a fact – and the arguments here were said to be that with some changes, because it is not only these four sections instead of one, but it is things that the Secretary of State here has interpreted, and they are written down and so on. And if you truly believe that it is necessary to make such conditions in court, that judges will be independent, within their legal powers, to carry out their work and to do it. I don't go into it whether anyone wants to go from Velenje to Celje to court or from New City to Brežica and so on. I just don't understand that any civil servant, a public servant, but this also applies to judges, says he won't move out of here, because he's better off than you say he's judging a hot thief here than he's dealing with serious issues. I believe that, and above all, the judges are responsible, qualified and that they want to carry out their work effectively and also to build their careers, and that they are also engaged and applying to such calls and to such an organisation as is envisaged, they are likely to carry out their life visions, that the judges will be promoted and that they will be adequately paid within this system. Here now to mix the matter with the fact that some structure of the people in justice, who prefer to settle with a hundred euros less wages in order not to have to judge difficult matters, seems to me to be guilty. This generalization, and it's putting a bad light on the whole system. That's not true! I firmly believe that there are many things that are improving within the judiciary, but which have already been properly and properly regulated in many parts and have been effective and responsible. Here, in the National Assembly, we simply must not contribute to making an impression in public, that everything is wrong, that we are ineffective, that we are not with the first change, with the second change of laws – even in the past the laws have changed. But every thing that came into procedure, I believed that it was going to improve. And in that case, I do. I strongly reject that on average it suggests that all this is done only to protect some groups, some individuals who are — as has already been said in the introductory presentations of a parliamentary group — to protect themselves by protecting economic offenders or lawbreakers who are still supporters of this ruling coalition. And they say there's no such thing in our species. Because we are not talking here about the types of criminals, or those who break the law coming from the left, right, Stajerski, Dolenjska and so on, but we are just talking about how those who do not respect the laws that violate them, which cause crime of one kind or another, how they must come before the law, and they must end. Of course, I am against the fact that we are here asking the judiciary to make every procedure that begins with an indictment or with some procedure, that in the end it is evidence that someone is guilty and will be convicted and that it is only by doing so that justice can be measured. This would be a very bad message, and anyone seeking justice in court in other cases, probably believes that he is right, and many times he does not succeed with his claims before the judges, because obviously this is not so that he can attract everyone. Therefore, in this amendment, which is on the table, I do not see any significant improvement in order to contribute to the real – and if it is for you to be effective in bringing the proceedings to an end, it is my view that it is the most important problem that they last too long, that they do not finish and so on and so forth, that many things also get old, it seems to me that force is problematic. And if we all care about this, then let us listen – I believe the Secretary of State will be prepared once again, because the Government also has time to explain whether we have the right or wrong to improve the situation with these measures. And all I have to say about this is this, in my opinion. But everything else really needs to be rejected, because a public word, say, the best-standing political party to public opinion polls probably believes one part of the public. They may be zealous fans, but priors believe, but the problem is that these doubts are met on average. And that's not right. I don't want it. And Mr Petan, I only hope that after those vehement statements of yours back then in 2007, because today I have looked at the clips again, how you said when you were texting me, that you would be disappointed this time and that the trial would not end with a conviction, but with a release, but about this again.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u117	Thank you. Anybody else want to discuss this? Here you go, Mr. Snack.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u118	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. However, it is probably necessary to repeat again, although this topic actually falls more below the next point than below. This law introduces specialisation in court. Specialisation is generally recognised as beneficial when it comes to matters which deviate from their complexity. Economic crime, there is no doubt about it in the professional public, although sometimes I feel that we do not understand here that it belongs to the category of more difficult cases; both by the specificity of knowledge and by the specificity of the accused, as well as by the specifics resulting from both categories, it is the procedural conduct of these procedures. As a result, specialization in the prosecution of such crimes, which are certainly one of the most harmful to our society, is introduced at all levels of prosecution of crimes. It starts with the police when the National Investigation Office, which specializes in such matters in particular, continues with the prosecution, where there is a specialised group for the prosecution of such crime, and tomorrow we will discuss how we want to strengthen this group. This law, which is before you today, carries this specialty to court as well. The first attempt was made in 2009 by that specialised section, which was so highly criticised and our conclusion is that due to the logistical and implementation problems caused by the specialisation in one place in the Republic of Slovenia and then by the trial in all the seats of the courts where such cases belong, and in particular due to the very tight formal conditions for applying to such a group, there were not enough candidates to meet these requirements. This upgrades, this model brings judges closer together, facilitates criteria that are more formal in nature and remains the central criterion that is the competence to judge in such cases. Everyone supports specialisation in this area. Today, it has been repeatedly pointed out that even the judiciary is against what is in this law. That doesn't exactly hold. The Council of Justice has said that it agrees with the principles and objectives of the law. The judiciary only stressed that they themselves had proposed the introduction of a specialised department years ago, and the idea was not adopted at that time. Of course, the judiciary would need and want more time to think about it, but the government estimates that this time is simply not. The economic crime we face is such that it requires action, and this proposal you have before you offers a solution for effective action, action in the form of specialisation in courts. This specialization is now in four locations, not because it would be easier to establish four sections than one, but to make it easier for the judges. Indeed, in the debates about whether a judge should judge where he is and whether matters should come to him, the question of what is the matter with the prosecutor is being raised. Because then the prosecutor has to travel all over the country, and this is also the problem that the prosecution is facing, so that these solutions are not as simple as they sometimes are. The stimulation of these judges exists if the instruments with the award of the supplement for the increased work in the previous term have been assessed to be so successful by some today, then I believe that the stimulation, if we are talking only about financial, in the form of the salary of the Supreme Court, which is in fact the highest salary that can be achieved in the judiciary, will certainly be even more effective. This is how this law provides for these judges. These judges will in fact judge the most difficult cases, including those most media-exposed, including cases where they are most difficult in terms of the organisation of the trial, given that they tend to be highly-educated perpetrators, who, of course, exploit all the possibilities that the law gives them to avoid the trial. It is certainly not the aim of this law to make further obstacles to the trial. If I agree with what has been said today that there are actually existing O.K. systems and that we are actually letting specialisation take place within the existing one, then I do not know if today's situation is why we have extraordinary meetings on matters that are obsolete. The purpose of this law is to ensure that the trial is within a reasonable time frame; not just within a reasonable time frame, a trial that will be quick and which will be in line with what this economic crime poses as a threat to society. The judges who will judge these matters will only do these matters. This means that the judge who will judge such a case in this section will not have to worry about the regular fate, the 10, the 20 ordinary crimes which must be dealt with in accordance with the order of law and the principle of the natural judge at a reasonable time. This judge will concentrate on one trial and it will also be appropriate to call for major hearings and procedural guidance – speaking of procedural leadership, I am talking about the case being dealt with until it is over. This is the goal that we are pursuing, and the opportunities we are giving to the judges by this law are the opportunities that will enable them to do so. That is why those who today say that this law is not necessary and that it is bad in fact claim that the situation in the pursuit of economic crime is, in fact, good. I personally cannot agree with this, and the Government does not agree. We think it is necessary to take a step forward here and if steps have been taken further in the area of detection and prosecution, but slowly, it shows that, of course, all the conditions must be ensured that these steps can also continue in the field of trial. This law, which is before you, and this law, which is on the program under the next item of the agenda, bring these options. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you very much. Does anyone else want to discuss this amendment to Article 4? I take it he doesn't want to, so I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the amendment in accordance with the timing of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 10th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 10. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts in the framework of the summary procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the bill. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! Allow me to present the content of the amendments to the Law on Courts, which is marked by the novel J. We have already talked a lot about this under the previous paragraph, but it must be said that this is the substantive point of the changes in the organisation of courts. The government has identified as one important political priority the effective prosecution and the prosecution of economic crime cases, particularly when it comes to the most demanding forms of this crime. With a view to enabling the institutional capacity of the courts to deal with these cases, which should ensure the optimum speed of decision-making, and in particular the optimal capacity of judges to specialize in dealing with these crimes, the Government has decided to prepare a new Law on the Courts. Otherwise, it's not the only reason you have this novel in front of you. I will talk about the others below, but it is important that we first touch on this fundamental issue, why it is important to upgrade the existing model of specialisation in the form of a judicial department in these matters. As you know, the National Assembly, with the latest amendment of the same law, adopted an arrangement which envisaged the creation of one such department at the District Court in Ljubljana. This model was based on the starting point for the award of judges to this section solely on the basis of their interest in such allocation. On the basis of the Court’s application for an invitation to tender, the relevant proceedings were then carried out by the Council of Justice and, by choice, the judge was reassigned or reassigned to such a section. The practice has shown that the interests of the judges to a certain extent exist, but that this allocation has not occurred or has been made difficult for various reasons. There have been some systemic obstacles, including a very strict requirement for a judicial assessment of a judicial service which must not be more than six months old and which must include an assessment that the judge fulfils the conditions for faster progress or even for exceptional progress. There were also some obstacles to a purely practical nature, since judges wishing to be assigned to this section and acting in the various courts to which they were elected should be mobile, which means that they should be in the court to which the case belongs, which means that the prosecution has filed an appropriate indictment or a request for investigation. This raised the issue of costs, the question of the residence of such a judge, the purely operational issue of security, spatial conditions, administrative assistance and the like. All of this has deterred judges from deciding to be assigned to such a mobile department. The Ministry has repeatedly repeated calls, a total of five calls have been issued and since, on the basis of these calls, it has not been possible to complete the sufficient number of judges assigned to this section, we have decided to go to the upgrade of this model. An upgrade in the sense that judges may remain assigned to this section, which means that any judge may seek to be assigned to the departments, but on the other hand it makes sense to reduce the risks associated with the distance of the place where it will be dealt with from the distance where the judge works or lives. We have thus decided to establish four departments instead of one, in the four-court area where the higher courts are located. As you know, we have four higher courts in Slovenia, and in these seats such departments will also operate in the future, in district courts of such courts. It is Ljubljana, Koper, Celje and Maribor. The upgrade goes one more way, towards the expansion of these departments. It is a matter of bringing the departments closer to those judges who are already working in these areas, so we have decided to combine the allocation and allocation of judges. The order means that a decision on the classification of this section shall be taken by the President of the Court, who shall, by law in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, adopt each year a schedule of work by which he shall assign the judge to individual legal areas. Under this arrangement, which we propose, the President of the Court will therefore carry out this allocation with an annual schedule, of course, in an appropriate relation to the number of seats to be allocated to the Judges and the number of seats to be allocated to the so-called Judges. The upgrading of the model to date is shown in another direction, by establishing criteria that will be the basis for determining the actual and local competences of these departments. We propose the so-called Catalytic Criteria, i.e. a precise statement of the offences to which this Section or these four departments will be responsible. This eliminates possible disputes over jurisdiction, but it also raises doubts that the discrediting of those who make decisions, or discrimination against those who decide whether or not someone will receive a solution in such a department. In addition to organizing the department, the law brings some additional news. One is a mechanism for lowering the prize to a judicial expert when he does his work late. Secondly, it is the obligation of managers of official records, registries and public books and others to provide information to experts free of charge and without delay. The third extends the powers of the President of the Court in matters of judicial administration when he is more able to exercise control over the conduct of such cases. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u121	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a parent labour force. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to the President, Dr Vink Gorenak. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u122	Thank you very much. This bill was also discussed by the Committee at the same meeting, which is on 31, 6 April 2011. Proposaler – Government, author of the short procedure or contracting authority – College of the President of the National Assembly. The Committee was informed in advance of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, the Commission of the State Council for State Regulation, the opinion of the Council of Justice and the letter from the Criminal Section of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia. The representative of the proposer, Minister Zalar, said what the Secretary of State had just said. Ms Kraljeva, Legal and Legislative Service, said that the shortcomings of the law, which had been stated in their opinion, had been overcome by the amendments tabled. The State Council has upheld the law, and the Council of Justice, Mrs Vesna Pavlič Pivk, has also given a negative explanation in the explanation. In short, the Council of Justice does not support the law in this case either. At the proposal of Mr Jerovska, the Committee first discussed whether the law was even suitable for further consideration or not, and the coalition Members rejected his proposal. In the following we had an amendment, the amendments are enough to probably spend 5 minutes of time, but there is no point in listing them, but the amendments were fully accepted by the committee. In accordance with Article 128, the Committee also voted and the amendments were an integral part of the report, in which the annex is the law as a whole with amendments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u124	Dear Mr President, the distinguished representative of the government, colleague and colleague! The latest amendment to the Law on Courts updated the organisation of the administration and administration of courts, the reform of judicial standards, the determination of the appropriate number of judges in a court of law and the organisation of a specialised section for trial in more complex cases of organised and economic crime, terrorism, corruption and other criminal offences requiring special competence and experience. The insufficient employment of the designated posts of the specialised department to carry out work on these specific, more difficult cases in one place did not produce an appropriate result, so the legislator, by means of the proposed law, is increasing the possibility of more efficient work of specialised departments in four courts. The reason for the proposed upgrade and strengthening of the institutional capacity of the courts for trial in the most challenging cases has been that the number of such crimes has recently increased significantly, in other words everywhere in the country. The purpose of the law is to establish specialised sections of the courts carrying out these investigations and to judge in more difficult cases, to establish an age limit for the cessation of the status of an expert, a judge and a judge on the basis of the provisions applicable to judges, state lawyers and state prosecutors, to speed up judicial proceedings in cases involving judicial experts, and in enforcement cases for the recovery of financial claims, to supplement certain provisions established by the first law, taking into account the findings of the working group on the implementation of the new Law on Courts established by the Minister of Justice with a view to the effective implementation of the provisions of Law 1, to ensure a more equal burden on district courts within the area of the district, to strengthen supervisory mechanisms in the course of the conduct of judicial administration and to extend the powers of the President of the higher and district courts. Despite the fact that the law will require some 100,000 Euros of additional funding for its implementation, the parliamentary group supports the law because we think it is most important that cases of the nature described, whose early epilogue would restore the confidence of citizens in the rule of law, which is now very small, be resolved as soon as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you very much. The position of the Socialist Group of Members will be presented by Miran Potrč. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u126	Mr President of the National Assembly, Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! Amendments and additions to the Law on Courts are related to amendments to the Law on Judicial Service. As a result, our findings made in the preceding law also apply to this law. In particular, I would like to say that it is incorrect to stress the order in which this law is dealt with in the National Assembly. On a proposal from the Government, we proposed a change in the order of order for members and members of the coalition on the working body, and first considered the law on the courts, only then the law on judicial service, but was not particularly careful when preparing the service when establishing the order. It is true that we could point out this to the College of Members of the Coalition, it is equally true that members of the opposition could also point out this because they knew that such readiness existed, but not that today they were talking about that it was deliberately done in order to reduce the importance of this law and to conceal that in fact the legislation does not have the objective of declaring it, that is to make it more effective in the judiciary. The second thing I would like to say is that this law seeks to ensure difficult work, difficulties in transferring powers and more crimes that are supposed to wear off because it is the coalition's interest to make the acts obsolete, because they are people who are close to it. As it is made up, it could be seen from the part of the law that complements and works more effectively to control the immediate and timely resolution of cases. The law has three, four articles expressly authorising the President of the court in which the trial is conducted, as well as the higher court, to monitor and assess, on the other hand, whether all proceedings are conducted in accordance with the law and whether the effectiveness of the trial is ensured and thus make it impossible and difficult to delay, but not to make the statute of limitation desirable in any way. Finally, this also applies to more responsible work by experts and judicial assessors, who are an important article in dealing with serious crimes, where regular action is required within the time limit set, and if not, for monetary sanctions or for a smaller payment for work done, which also stimulates a faster resolution of disputes. Therefore, please, it is unkind to listen to fabricated claims that it is not the basic objective of the law, which we have already stressed in the Judicial Service Act, in order to ensure greater efficiency through changes. This also shows that it would be possible to remove obstacles that have been inadequately assessed by the Court of Justice Act in order to organise one specialised section at the District Court in Ljubljana and resolve the willingness of the judges to occupy the seat. The practice has shown that this has been overestimated, and practice has shown that some obstacles that have required a very successful judicial service and foreign language knowledge are such that they have made it difficult to achieve the interests and opportunities for judges to apply – we hope that this will be resolved. It is certainly true that it will be much easier to perform this judicial service in a specialised department if these departments are in Ljubljana, Koper, Celje and Maribor and not only in Ljubljana, as they have been so far. I believe that the proposed law is intended and intended to accelerate the effectiveness of the judicial system, especially within the framework of the most serious crimes committed in these specialised departments, and I think it would be our duty to give him such a wish on the road, not on the other hand. [[...]] [[sign for the end of the debate]] Unreasonably evaluate. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you very much. Position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Jožef Jerovšek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! Once again, I must point out that today's doubles are being dealt with in the wrong order. I think that the technology of the work of the National Assembly, if there are no specific purposes, would be the leadership of the National Assembly and also the Government, and everyone could have the power to deal with it in a meaningful manner. As a result, it is doubtful that there are no hidden purposes here, absolutely justified. This time we do not evaluate the new Law on Courts in the SDS Group positively. The law introduces four new specialized departments in district courts in the higher courts in Celje, Koper, Ljubljana and Maribor for trial in more complex cases of organised and economic crime, terrorism, corruption and other crimes. Judges in these departments are to be judged on the basis of the exclusive, factual and local competences of specialised departments for all offences for which the indictment will be brought by a competent state prosecutor, competent or specialised to prosecute the most serious crimes. At first glance, such purpose and explanation work likely and positively. At the same time, we need to know that this time the amendment of the law represents the retrial of the Minister and the Government, the final test for the clave failed the amendment of the same law, by which in 2009 the Government established a specialised department at the District Court in Ljubljana for trials on the most challenging cases. The Special Branch never made it to life. The Slovenians today and at this point do not need a student, the government or the ministry, to come to an assessment sufficiently, but we need the efficiency of the judiciary. A good assessment of the effectiveness of the judiciary and the background for proposing this law and the intention of the current authority goes in a completely different direction from that of the judiciary. In the sense of the intent of this law, we are united with the Council of Justice, the Criminal Departments of the Supreme Court and the judiciary. Although the Government is sitting for four specialised departments, it is clear that the enforcement of the law would bring a lot of organisational work that would prevent the resolution of matters, many things would be obsolete, so the professional law sees it as an obstacle and not as a solution. We appeal to our fellow Members and colleagues to understand how it is necessary not to mine judges and the judicial system in solving the most challenging cases. They are hampered by the fact that the Law on Courts already allows the introduction of specialised departments and all of this is also stressed by the Council of Justice, so no law is needed, we leave the courts and the judges to work actively. As a result of such intentions in the background, we have obviously received from the Government to Parliament also a technologically poorly prepared law. That is why we adopted on the committee or the coalition majority adopted 23 coalition amendments to 39 articles of the law. It is said that more than any other article was technologically or substantively inappropriate and needed to be corrected; this same law was written two years ago. As we have said, we do not see any good purpose in constantly changing things, showing pigeons on the roof, promises now that the judiciary will be effective while blocking the judiciary. Unfortunately, these methods, which have been used extensively in the previous system of blocking something and propaganda, are repeated by the current authorities in these two laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u130	Thank you very much for your words, distinguished president, secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! Again, we have before us the proposal of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts and it is a matter of upgrading the existing model that has been established. Above all, the novel provides a definitive, reliable start to the work of specific departments, which could start this autumn. In the Group of Ambassadors, we are pleased to see that the new policy is short for this operationalisation of the novel, which, as mentioned, was adopted already a good year and a half ago. The main and important objective of the establishment of these departments is, in particular, the effectiveness of the judgment in matters of economic crime. We all agreed that this is one of the priorities and also the priority of this government is, and we do support it in the Group of Members. Little has been heard of the idea of how to do this and what must also be said that whoever carefully reads the magnetogram from the parent's working body will also find that the Council of Justice, this profession, which has been mentioned here repeatedly after mentioning it, agrees. Of course, the Government and the Council of Justice have failed to find common ground on certain technical solutions. It is therefore in our interest for all of us to see that economic crime proceedings end at an appropriate time, that the perpetrators are not only prosecuted, and that they are punished to end the proceedings in short. It has been heard that the law already in force adequately regulates this issue, but that no specific departments for more complex forms of crime are being established in the courts. Why doesn't the current system allow it? Since the existing model was based solely on the agreement of the individual awarding judge in this special section and the interests for it also existed, and the actual allocations to the department were not carried out due to the multitude of systemic obstacles that we, for example, have also resolved through the amendment of the law that was under the previous item on the agenda. These are, for example, the issue of the costs of a judge's stay, the mobility of judges and so on. After all, it doesn't even matter, it's important that the final result wasn't short. The new arrangement and the novelty brought about by this new arrangement is that these departments will not be, there is only one department, but four, as already mentioned, in Ljubljana, Maribor, Koper and Celje. It is not only about setting up these departments in several places, but also about bringing these departments closer to the judges who are already living and working in these areas. It is therefore a combination of allocations and allocations of judges. The allocation shall mean that the decision to be included in this section shall be taken by the President of the Court. The President of the Court shall, by law and by judicial order each year, adopt this annual work schedule by which he shall allocate the Judges to each legal area. The order shall be decided by the President of the Court and by the Council of Justice. The upgrading of the model to date also lays down criteria that will serve as the basis for determining the actual and local competences of these specialised departments. Accurately defined are the offences to which this section or those four departments will be responsible and thereby eliminate possible disputes of jurisdiction. In the Truth Group, the new policy will support the amendment of the law because we are confident that it will help with its solutions to a more efficient and speedy resolution of matters or cases in the field of economic crime. The same is true of the novel that we have considered under the previous item in the agenda; in short, the amendment of the Judicial Service Act, which, as already mentioned, is closely linked to this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Guido Kres. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. A respected colleague or colleague, a respected colleague! With the objectives and principles to be followed by the proposed Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts, we certainly agree with everyone and the question is whether the current amendments will actually achieve what is stated. Will permanent changes actually lead to more efficient procedures? Are these new costs also justified? On the other hand, we all know that court proceedings take years and years to move on and on. We therefore, of course, support any new approach that would improve this dynamic and quality of work. In the Slovenian People's Party, we are somewhat surprised that both of them are legally opposed to both the Council of Justice and the Criminal Section of the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, but the proposer insists on such a form of law. They also state that they had too little time to study the bill proposals and make comments, but it is two highly qualified institutions that have a very professional view of the issue. In this way, they were deliberately or reluctantly excluded from the process of making comments, so that the applicant would also take their comments into account. Perhaps then no more than 20 of the less than 40 articles of the law should be amended during the course of the hearing due to comments made by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly. However, despite all the facts, in the Slovenian People's Party, we are the one who is most concerned about the functioning of the rule of law in our country. For it is this feeling that laws are not all the same, that some are more equal to the same, that they arouse in citizens and citizens an apathy to politics, at a time when all together a little bit more carefully should take all the actions and all parts of government services and ministries, as well as the effectiveness and meaningful criticism of the opposition. We must admit that in the regulation of the matter we are talking about, the situation is not good, let alone optimal. From such a slightly laziness, we have been inclined to change because they point out that the number of cases of economic crime is increasing, and our courts are currently not following this trend effectively. Statistics on the effectiveness of convictions, regardless of the damage this type of crime causes to the Slovenian economy, are not only worrying, but even alarming. Of course, a different organisation of courts and judicial services should also be followed by rational conduct. So listen to the warnings of both the Council of Justice and other experts, so that we do not need additional administrative complications that would bring new costs. The Slovenian People's Party, after a thorough assessment of the changes proposed by the Ministry of Justice, will not object, because it is their responsibility to try to change something for the better, but because of many open questions and concerns about the proposals of both laws we cannot support. Whether this is the way it is true whether it will actually bring about improvements mainly in the field of economic crime prosecution is really difficult to assess. Therefore, the ruling coalition should take responsibility for the solution proposed by the justice ministry. However, only the implementation of both laws of practice, and in particular the numbers on performance over a year or two after the law is in force, will they tell whether they have succeeded. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I welcome everyone here! The proposal for a new judiciary regulation builds on the concept of the organisation of courts within the meaning of the last adopted amendment to this Act, which provides for the organisation of one specialised section for the trial of more complex cases of organised and economic crime, terrorism, corruption and other criminal offences. The reason for the proposed upgrade, whereby instead of one specialised section, four, is that statistics show that the number of economic crime offences investigated by police and the National Investigation Office has increased significantly recently. As the number of judges to be tried in these cases is thus expected to increase, judicial proceedings are expected to be faster and more effective. The latter also depends, in particular, on the appropriate competence and experience of the individual judge to be assigned or assigned to this section. Notwithstanding this contribution to the novel, which, according to the assessment of our Group of Members, undoubtedly leads to a more successful work of the courts in these increasingly frequent crimes that are becoming a pressing problem in our society, it should be added that the quality implementation of the prosecution is a key prerequisite for the final, judicial epilogue of the individual proceedings. Therefore, if we want the problem of economic and organised crime and corruption to be successfully prosecuted, eradicated or at least softened, the responsible, professional and effective work of all involved and competent authorities, including the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption, is crucial. Pico sets up communication and synchronisation of the work of all competent authorities. In addition to this biggest change, the Ministry of Justice has prepared some new developments, which we believe are also contributing to faster and more efficient trials. Thus, in our Group of Members, we welcome the way in which judicial experts will be stimulated to draw up expert opinions in a timely manner. An additional contribution to the acceleration of judicial proceedings shall also constitute an amendment to the Article which obliges the operators of official records to provide the required information to experts and valuers within 8 days at the latest. In order to make enforcement proceedings faster, the law provides for the possibility of transferring executions from the courts affected by judicial backlogs to less burdened courts. The cases will be closed in advance, which, in addition to improving judicial statistics, will also lead to the payment of creditors and consequently the reduction of payment non-discipline. Appropriate supervisory mechanisms are also needed for the quality work of the courts and the implementation of the rule of law. This law introduces the possibility of internal review of individual cases by the President of the Court and the hierarchical control of lower courts by the Presidents of higher courts. Members of the DeSUS Group will support the novel as it brings changes and innovations, which, according to our assessment, can contribute to better dynamics and quality of work in the courtrooms. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u136	Mr President, Members and Members of Parliament, representatives of the Government! The Ministry of Justice, with ever-increasing legal solutions, is attempting to act or punish the ever-increasing worst crimes. Despite the Ministry's efforts, this legal solution does not bring any significant improvements, nor does it even take place in practice, as was the case with the previous amendment to the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service. There is no doubt that changes in the judiciary are necessary. The Slovenian public also expects to be convicted of crimes in rebuttal trials, such as the Clean shovel, Istrabenz and so on. The most recent amendment to the Law on Courts, which allowed judges to be assigned to a specialised section, allowed judges to decide on the basis of the application for a transfer to this section on their own. This arrangement proved to be completely inappropriate, since there was no overinterest among judges. It is quite funny when the drafter states in the assessment of the situation that the harsh conditions for assigning judges to a specialised section are eliminated, this is a legal assessment by the judicial service of compliance with the conditions for faster or exceptional progress and the condition of active knowledge of at least one of the world languages, so that in practice these two conditions meet only a small number of judges. The law under consideration therefore confers on the President of the Court the power to assign judges to a specialised department, in accordance with the annual schedule. Given that the law interferes with the organisation and work of judges, we are not surprised by the opposition to the proposed changes by the Council of Justice, that judges are difficult to animate for criminal proceedings and that it is possible to approach the solution of this issue in a different way and within the scope of the options already offered by the Law on Courts and the Law on Judicial Service. We do not understand why the judges object to this novel, since the law does not ultimately provide for the appropriate award of judges for the time when they will be assigned to a specialised section. That argument is therefore simply not true in the Court of Justice’s argument. Why, in spite of the statistics showing an increase in the number of the most serious crimes, judges have not yet been properly organised, the representative of the Council of Justice has not spoken on the committee responsible. The proposed law lays down, among others, mechanisms to reduce awards to judicial experts in the event of a breach of the time limits for issuing an implementing opinion. In so doing, in the SNS Group, let us point out that, as regards the operation of judicial experts, it is not only a problem to exceed the time limits for the performance of the work, but also a problem in their work that certain judicial experts, such as in the field of sexual assaults on children, take part in regular working hours in institutions where they are employed, also carry out the independent activity of a judicial expert. In this regard, we have also referred to the Minister of Justice for a parliamentary initiative to amend the rules on judicial experts and judicial assessors. In our view, the law does not provide adequate solutions to enable the principle of effective trial, the right to a trial without undue delay and a quicker resolution of cases, as the problems in the judiciary stem from the basis of the judicial system represented by the judges. This is the permanent mandate of judges, which, among other things, causes unengagement, indemnity, the issuance of biased decisions and so on. Therefore, the SNS Group will not support the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts and the related Act on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u138	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice to meet you again! The Court is a body which has the right to judge and decide other legal matters. This is the definition of the court in the Slovenian Book Language Dictionary. Each one of us probably has his own idea of what he thinks of under the terms of court. I am convinced, however, that in these performances we have a fundamental common point, or the association of the court, that the courts of law and the sanctioning authority of those who violate the laws are otherwise thought by some in this Chamber. Courts have to judge effectively, impartially, in a number of cases within a reasonable time. These examples can be relative and simple or not. As the whole society develops, criminal acts and criminals change over time, and it is important that the judicial system is adapted in the new challenges situations. We have before us the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on Courts, prepared by the Ministry of Justice in the package with the amendment of the Law on Judicial Service. The basic purpose of the bill is to build on the concept of a specialised section of the court that conducts investigations and judges in more complex cases of organised and economic crime, corruption, terrorism and other similar crimes. The need for institutional upgrading of the capacity of the courts involved in these cases stems from the fact that the number of such offences is increasing significantly and from the knowledge that the existing arrangement with one specialised department at the District Court in Ljubljana has not in practice taken place. The proposal thus foresees an extension of the number of courts with specialized departments from one to four, namely Celje, Koper, Ljubljana and Maribor. The judges of the specialised departments will, according to the criterion, be exclusive, real and local competences of the departments and, having regard to the relation to the actual competence of the State Prosecutor responsible for the prosecution of the most demanding forms of criminal offences, competent for all offences which are also listed in the law, we can find that such arrangements, which establish a rapid and simple criterion for the allocation of specialised departments, are pre-empting possible doubts and disputes in jurisdiction. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the provisions of the new Law on Courts concerning specialized sections of the courts, together with amendments to the Judicial Service Act, provide a stronger basis for the already successful prosecution of the most demanding forms of crime. The proposal to amend the law also introduces some other amendments that will speed up the proceedings before the courts and impose more uniform burdens on district courts within the districts. Thus, the law provides for a mechanism to reduce the award of judicial experts in the event of delays in the preparation of examinations and opinions, resulting from the conclusion that the duration of judicial proceedings is often due to the fact that the judicial experts do not draw up an opinion within the time limit set by the court. The powers of the Presidents of the Court and the Court at a higher level are being extended in order to strengthen the independence of the President of the Court and to take account of the principle of the more prudent functioning of Slovenian courts. The proposed amendment to the Law on Courts, together with the amendment to the Law on Judicial Service, represents another type of action to effectively combat organised and economic crime. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we estimate that the proposed changes to the law are necessary, systemic and address the specific needs of the everyday practice of Slovenian courts and will contribute to a better and more effective judiciary, so we will also support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. I turn to the debate on the articles and the amendments tabled to be made on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled. 4. 2011. We move on to Articles 2 and 36. Since the amendment to Article 2 is substantively linked to the amendment of the same proposal to Article 36, we will discuss them together. I am putting to the debate paragraphs 2 and 36 and the amendments of the SDS Group to these two articles. Anybody want to talk? Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u140	Thank you very much. This marriage and amendment, or amendment, are fundamentally related to the previous law, but look, the law was being prepared — what is it called? – flower of the Slovenian judiciary. The flower of the Slovenian judiciary is represented by the Minister and the Secretary of State, at least as shown, but look, the Legal and Legal Service sends us 13 pages of densely typed text because it tells us what is wrong. The law has 39 articles. Of these 39 articles, the coalition on the committee shall amend them 20. What's wrong? How is that possible? This is about as if a group of doctors were treating one patient, and we're saying that top experts are treating him, they have the most advanced techniques and medicines, and then the patient dies. That's possible there, but it's not supposed to be in the law. We discussed a law in the National Assembly a while ago – but I am speaking in order to make a comparison – namely, the law on integrity and everyone in the coalition said that this law is the most modern, the best that exists under the sun, but I do not know why I now have 100 pages of corrections. 100 pages of repairs. How is that possible? The answer is one: Schemparija and hand made — yes, it is a domestic story. That's why. As far as this law is concerned, the views of the parliamentary groups have been presented today, namely that this is indeed an upgrade to the existing model. Yeah, I really agree with that. Upgrade an existing model that does not work. The existing model does not work because that section in Ljubljana has been trying to bring together a coalition or a minister and the judiciary for two years now and does not work. Now we're going to upgrade what doesn't work! That's also a good thing. You build up some bad stuff, and that's really cool. There has also been a great deal of talk on this amendment as to how courts must judge quickly and effectively. That 90 signatures can be obtained for such a claim. It's probably not a problem getting 90 signatures, everyone would agree. But this marriage in connection with our amendment, which is trying to improve it, is actually following something else — something that could really be done. This is so that in all the Slovenian courts where there are experts – judges for this, they can judge the most challenging cases, not frame them in four courts. First of all, we can't get one together, and the secretary of state said, "Now it's going to work." I don't understand how it would go now. If the ministry has not gathered together from all of Slovenia or the courts have not brought together one department, this is Ljubljana, how will it now be four? And if we take that chance that this could even work in Celje, Koper and Maribor, I don't know how it could work in Ljubljana. If no one had applied to the previous tenders, what logic would they have now applied to these invitations? That's really a prize question. The fundamental problem with this law is that those implementing it are against it. Not only the Council of Justice, the Supreme Court and the Court of Justice, this time even the Penalty Department of the Supreme Court came forward. They say it won't work. And if those of you who tell us that it's not going to work, that's not possible, that's what they say, the minister goes as a roller coaster on a fresh asphalt. But that doesn't make any sense. Therefore, I believe that the most effective action, in addition to the Government's resignation, would be to support, in a specific case, the amendment which is governed in the manner which the Council of Justice and the Supreme Court want – the Criminal Section of the Supreme Court and, lastly, the Court of Justice. Don't impose on them something they don't want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u141	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you very much. It has now been highlighted on several sides what kind of law we have before us, what opportunities there are for him to live, what opinions he has on this law and solutions the entire judiciary and judiciary, the Council of Justice, the Supreme Court Penalty Department, the Court of Justice. And all opinions are negative. All of this could be organised by the current law, which allows specialisation, specialized departments. There is no need for the amendment of the law to dictate a great deal of organisational change that will block the work of the courts and thus allow the crime of economic crime, the crime of white collars, and corruption. We do not have terrorism for once in Slovenia. The aim is to stop the prosecution of economic crime and corruption. And we are constantly adopting in this House laws proposed by the government and then not implementing them. One such was the amendment to the Law on Courts, which in 2009 established a specialised section at the District Court in Ljubljana to try the worst cases of economic crime. Think about it. It's the humane most powerful court. Mr Zalar has long been president of this court. This then means that he blindly established this section by law, for the department did not live. How will the departments in three courts, in Cyprus, Maribor and Celje, which are significantly smaller, have a significantly smaller choice of people? It's a mockery and a stallion. And another such law, which I have and deal with just now, I have asked Minister Vlačič a question. On 11 January, the Rail Transport Act entered into force, which provides for the establishment of a company for investment in railway infrastructure and the law states, "with its seat in Maribor". And the Minister must establish an economic society within three months. The deadline expired on April 11th, and the Minister did nothing! The Minister was not even present when he answered questions from Members [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u143	Comrade Jerovšek, the amendment is to the Law on Courts [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u144	Yeah, but I need to illustrate the government's intentions to people. What's the urgency? Adopt laws that show pigeons on the roof and then nothing happens.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u145	I propose a written or oral question.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u146	And of course I hear that behind it is also because the law says that the seat of that society is in Maribor, but wants to move to Ljubljana, to centralise. And there's a whole bunch of these cases. I would really suggest to the Ministry that they deal with a positive practice of amending laws, where they can help to eliminate the delay that is taking place in this society through a number of bodies. If it comes to an end and then it happens, it's Elan's case when the judge didn't write the verdict. Or another case, Mr Kovacic has pardoned the President of the Republic. This option of yours strictly follows that no one should be convicted. Even if he has taken away 100 million euros, there is no need for him to be convicted, we will protect him through legislation. And this shielding is unheard of how it protects itself. And this option does not stand for the truth. I must say that Mr Slapnik, now that I had to present the laws here, organized a set and accused me of lying about the weapons from the Bedroom. I'm supposed to be at the trial at this time, representing three laws. And this is the work of some members of this coalition and also the government. Of course, I must strongly protest that he is trying to deal with evil lies when a person cannot be present when he has a job here in Parliament. And I wonder how much longer, ladies and gentlemen, the President of Parliament, because we do have very different things going on, because outside this government there is no evidence of operational governance. Is he getting rid of laws that say Cardelian, but now we're going to make a change and now everything's going to be okay? The minister's done this exam twice. Twice. He once made a specialized department and then he pointed out that now we will have a specialized department and now the death of economic crime and corruption is over. During this time, Mr Thaler has happened in the current coalition. But one other case, when one of our MPs was being accused, the journalists kept writing Mr. Thaler living in the shadows now, even though the journalists in The Times said he was not chosen because he had shown corrupt signs before. I fear that the Spanish compromise and all that we had to accept was that Thaler was a minister associated with such conduct. I'm sorry. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u147	Mr Jerovšek, I would ask you to somehow try to return to the amendment [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u148	I have to show the government what's going on. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u149	Mr Jerovšek, you can give a general political assessment at some other point.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u150	This is closely linked to the government's efforts to protect the perpetrators of economic crime and corruption, those who commit corruption. Look, I believe it would be very bad for this opposition if those who have brought the Ljubljana Bank to justice with hundreds of millions. We should come, because we probably all agree that hundreds of millions of euros cannot just disappear unpunished. In Serbia 60 million, in Zagreb, Sarajevo. Of course, newspapers only write the initial management of the bank, who caused it. And that's what this law is about. It did not teach us that we had on the committee that the Satex issue, where the revalued value of the then bankruptcys amounted to EUR 25 million in today's money, was outdated. But in the meantime, there was another government, they changed a little bit, they extended out-of-date hands and threatened some to come to court, so it was necessary to make a law that would push the files into the bottom drawer. However, the courts will deal with the organisation of work, the mutual disputes which are constantly something in such institutions, and ladies and gentlemen, Mr Secretary of State, the Minister did not come here today because we showed him the intention of this law the last time on the committee. Today he sent the Secretary of State to defend what is not worth defending because it is going in the wrong direction. And, colleagues and colleagues, you have the defense of economic crime and corruption before you, or you will stand on top of it. The current law allows for an effective organization that you can deal with. Of course, then, those judges should not be bullied. And the most serious crimes of economic crime and corruption must be prosecuted. The last time we had a visit to the foreign policy committee from the Croatian Parliament, Mrs Pusic said: "With us in Croatia, politicians are really afraid, they are scared to death and there is no more corruption." With us, however, we have quite new and new data on how much money has been drained from banks. The government appoints the presidents of the supervisory councils of men who have sinned against the laws. In Croatia, they have achieved that potential perpetrators of politics, from the economy, from state societies are afraid. But we don't have this fear, because the government protects them with such laws that all of this will be suppressed under carpets, things will get old, and the country will go bankrupt. And people are going to be beating up poverty like many people are now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u151	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? The Secretary of State called first, and then I'll give Dr. Gorenak my word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u152	Thank you very much, Mr. President. When listening to these discussions, one must remember what Valvasor wrote in his Glory to the Duke of Kranjska when describing a group of people who had quite developed unusual manual skills and qualified them for people who have a well-developed ability to find something before a person loses. When I listen to these discussions, I feel that some have a good ability to read or read what is not written. The debate that the government wants to protect criminals and economic criminals by introducing into law the possibility of a more effective prosecution or prosecution of such crimes, I do not think this has anything to do with the law. The numbers we have today on how effective economic persecution is today or how many cases dealt with by the police have been seen by the economic crime court epilogue show that the worst thing the government could do is not do anything. We're trying to fix what's real today. We want the court proceedings and court epilogues of these proceedings to be read about in the media and monitored as a sensation sometimes, more. The application of the rule of law is that there will be more of these judicial epilogues. And if we want an arrangement that does not prove to be the most effective, we cannot correct it to be more effective, we cannot compare it with efforts to be inefficient. Inefficiency would be evident if we did not react if we did not accept any proposals. This proposal, which is before you today, as I said at the previous item on the agenda, introduces specialisation. And it's not true that everyone is against specialization. On the contrary, it's true. They're all for specialty. The Council of Justice is for specialization and the Supreme Court is for specialization. The Supreme Court is even for specialization in the four courts where the higher courts are today. That's exactly what the law says. It is indeed organizationally different, but specialisation is the aim of this law and specialisation is not limited if the set of those among whom specialisation should be carried out is narrow. And as a result, this law offers opportunities for specialised judges from a larger pool, from a larger range of potential candidates. It is the territory of the entire higher courts, four higher courts: Celje, Maribor, Koper and Ljubljana. And in their seats, these departments are being established. Why and who all participated in the design of these solutions? The eyewitnesses were repeatedly repeated today, when the court is against, the judges are against, they're against, they're all against. That's not true. The Implementation Group, which is responsible for the implementation of the Law on Courts, the first novel adopted in this mandate, contains the Judges of the first stage, contains the Judges of the second stage, contains the Supreme Judges. And there this idea was repeatedly debated. The Council of Justice said at a board meeting what their greatest fear was. They never spoke of their opposition to the purposes and principles of this law. Also, the judiciary, as I said at the previous point, is explicitly advocating specialisation. They themselves proposed the establishment of a specialized department years ago. Such departments are now being introduced by this law. To talk about this law leading to the statute of limitations of cases is, forgive me, irresponsible. This law contains specific provisions on the new powers of the Presidents of the Courts, on the new supervisory powers of the Presidents of the Courts. And if memory doesn't fool me, we've had a special session where we've had a lot to talk about a case that's out of date, including a proposal for the Ministry to ensure more effective control and greater control of respect for order or expeditionity of the trial. It's in this marriage. Under this law, the President of the Court himself, on his own initiative, has the opportunity to impose control, and this control in a particular case, not just a series of cases, control on an open case that is not even legally resolved, and can control whether the provisions on the timeliness of the trial are respected, that is, the case of the judicial administration and the President of the Court of Justice and can exercise such controls much more freely than it has been so far when he was involved in the proposal, and only on legal cases that have been concluded. As a result, there can be no control in cases that are not legally completed. This law gives this possibility, it extends the circle of candidates, not the proposers, but those who may require such supervision. These are the President of the Supreme Court, the Disciplinary Prosecutor, and besides the disciplinary court, the Minister. And one of the major concerns that the Council of Justice has had, but no one has said this in the debates, was that they were concerned that this would not mean interfering with the independence of the judiciary when the minister could demand supervision. That is why it was incorporated here in the amendments you have raised in this way, including the guardian, to decide at the end whether the request of the Minister or those other eligible candidates is justified and whether it does not affect the independence of the judge in the matter. There are a number of instruments in this law that we want to allow conditions for an effective course of judicial proceedings. Of course, I would also like to stress once again that an effective course of judicial proceedings means that a verdict is reached, not an urgent conviction. The rule of law assumes that they are not always condemned when it comes to criminal proceedings, sometimes there are also exoneration judgments. And how we're going to make these departments work, if none of them worked, was the obvious one I've heard many times today. An important difference between the four and the one is the way it works. It is true that the original legislation provided for one section which was formally organised in the District Court in Ljubljana. But an important provision, which is essential, was that these judges carried out their judicial function in courts where the cases fell under the principle of local jurisdiction. This means that the judge, if he was from Nova Gorica in this section, was in the situation that he had to go to the trial of the case if the case was from the local jurisdiction of the District Court in Murska Sobota, to Murska Sobota. And he had to stay there during the trial. This proved to be a major logistical problem. This was also pointed out by the judiciary. And we are solving this problem with this proposal that is before you today. This law refers to the concentration of cases in these courts. And these judges, who will sit in these courts in these departments, will have their cases brought before them in their own court, in this sitting court, because the case will be handled by a group of prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime in such a way or that the provisions of the case are inherent in gravity and will go to a real and local assessment of these departments. An important difference is that, in addition to the judges who will volunteer in these departments, the President of these headquarters courts will also have the opportunity to assign or deploy existing criminal judges to such criminal departments. And since these are the biggest courts in the country, of course specialization will be much easier than in some smaller courts. That means we'll have two categories of judges. Some who will be allocated by the annual schedule and will not run out of them, and others who will apply for the invitation to tender. Both will have to meet the professional criteria. But in this way it will be possible to ensure that these departments begin to function. And since they will be closer to the local courts, territorially closer to their homes, they will not require that the trial be conducted outside their place of residence or their regular service, there will be substantial fewer logistical problems with the organisation of this department. All of this will mean that what we want to achieve will be the specialisation of economic persecution, economic crime from the very initial phase, which starts at the police, as I said before, then with the National Investigation Office and continues through the prosecution, which has an organized group of prosecutors for the prosecution of such crime, to a court where they can now logically focus on such matters within the specific four departments, which will mean that the trials will run within a reasonable time frame, on an expedient basis, and that there will also be possible judgments in such matters. Therefore, I must strongly reject the suggestion that this arrangement is a handicap, that this arrangement is a hindrance to the judicial process and that this work will therefore be slower. Until these departments are established, the work will take place in the current way. That argument that this department itself means damage, it doesn't hold. If it's not established, everything will run as it does today. Unlike some others, I cannot agree that today is satisfactory. The numbers say it's not. The government wants to create conditions that will allow the numbers to be different. And this proposal that we have on the table today makes it possible. The amendment proposing the deletion of this section does not allow this. That is why I am counting on Members to support the original text, not the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u154	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, perhaps we should record the following. I'm the one who put together the question. I will send this question to you one month after these departments start working. The question is: Why do these departments not yet operate under the Law on Courts? Today you can prepare it, but you will get it within some normal human time frame, which is called one month after you should start working. Look, in 2009, it was the same story. I therefore ask you for 2009 the following. You were talking at the time, I looked at the tape, and Mr. Anderlich was at the time discussing this law, and I checked it out. And at the time, both the Secretary of State and you spoke, I summed up that the establishment of a specialised department in Ljubljana represents an important contribution to a better, more efficient, faster trial, follow what the police are preparing, which the prosecution is preparing, etc. Now I'm asking you both if you were bluffing. I don't know, I don't know, that's why I'm asking. I'm polite, aren't I? Were you kidding me then? Now it's turned up. Or were you wrong? If I'm wrong, I say, "I'm sorry!" I say it a lot, I have no problem with it. Maybe now you two would say, "I'm sorry, it's not a war." That's one thing. The other thing is surveillance. I didn't say anything on purpose, because with what I agree with, then we don't tell time and I don't even raise my hand and there's no problem. With control and with that work, I agree. There is something, Mr. Secretary of State, you're giving an aspirin if you need a surgical knife. But good. But aspirin isn't harmful, so I support that part. The essential thing I want to ask you and ask you for an answer. True, everyone agrees with the specialization, as you all said, but at the same time everyone opposes institutionalization, which is called the establishment of four departments. They're all against the establishment of four departments, and that's why I'm asking Mr Anderlich something, because he's not listening to me, maybe he'll read something. I'm asking you the following questions. They're all for specialty, but tell me, why are you raping them with four departments if they're all against it? The Council of Justice is against it, and everyone else is against it, but they're for specialization, not for the four departments you're setting up. I ask how it is now possible for the judiciary to know the authority of such a grave, to defile it in such an ugly way – sometimes I say so, you say – and you do not want to listen to it. Perhaps Mr. Anderlich will answer me as well. How is it possible that you ignore what everyone says in order to say, "We don't want four departments, we want a specialty!" But the last question for you is this. In the district of the Ljubljana District Court nothing changed two years ago, maybe some judge went, a new one came, etc. The recruitment you have within the territory of the District Court in Ljubljana is now smaller. Earlier, anyone from all over Slovenia could apply, and now only those who belong to this framework can apply for a new one. How can it be now, if it was not possible to fill this section before all Slovenian judges, but now it will only be possible from the Ljubljana area It is true, not to say that I am bluffing, it is true that something has changed, conditions, etc., but I still think that this will not work. Prepare a new answer to that question, because you can start it now. I know in part that it's an instructional deadline for you to write this. Of course you're kidding, aren't you? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Mr. Anton Anderlich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u156	Don't worry, Mr. Gorenak, I wanted to apply without being asked six times to explain what I was thinking at the time and what I was thinking today. Yeah. I apologize to all those who believed, as I did, that the changes proposed in the set of sufficient measures would be sufficient to ensure that the objective which has been proclaimed and which is always before us, that the judiciary will be effective, that it will be organised in the manner most appropriate to achieve this. Of course, I do not have to apologize that when I find that a measure does not work, when I know or when I am convinced by those who are dealing with this issue that some things still need to be improved, that I do not say again that they need to be improved. This has nothing to do with that statement two years ago. Of course, I am not far-sighted, I am not entirely visible to see what will happen to this law tomorrow, the day it enters into force, as I suppose you are. Whether you are more informed about whether you are enlightened or contributing to creating an atmosphere in which these laws are not implemented, they cannot be implemented or even put in place any obstacles so that this system is not effective. This can be done in very different ways. That people who believe in them and who often wear your flag for one time, for one time independently and so on, participate in this judicial system in a way that is actually effective. You know what I'm talking about, and you know that without all the positive atmosphere and the affection that laws actually implement, that they act in a spirit like that, it's very difficult. I am firmly convinced, and I know this already, as long as I have been following these matters, if you want, in the previous regime or in the last twenty years, including the period of your rule, if any matters to anyone that should be carried out in order to not be implemented, are not carried out. This can also be understood as a strike of white collars or gloves or bracelets, however you wish. But we're dealing with this. Also here in the National Assembly. In the previous session, we had a discussion, one of the authorities in this country said or employed people inside of it: "We will not do it, we do not want you to do it this way." Do you remember that discussion? I cannot agree to this and I am constantly fighting that if the problem is that something is not being implemented, because it cannot be implemented or because it is not well established, well established in the law, it is necessary to do so in a way that this can be implemented and that in the end sanctions can also be imposed, consequences if this is not implemented. Control and all things within the system still exist, even in the judiciary. I guess so! If that's not the case, then something's wrong. Everywhere there is probably an organisation designed to prescribe the tasks that individuals have to carry out, carry out, and are also paid in quality work, and if they do not work or explain why they cannot do certain things, there are likely to be sanctions. Don't you? And I think they are. I have also read some things, that there were, however, evaluations, evaluation of performance and so on. This is, in my understanding, a principle that is built in. How it is implemented, whether individuals want to implement it and those who are responsible for it, that it is not a matter of false solidarity, which is many times a phenomenon among people, but because of this, again I return to the law and to the amendment, you said, on the committee there was a long debate, the minister explained, I do not believe that because he is embarrassed because you showed him the real picture that he is not present in this Chamber today. Probably because he has other obligations and is here with the same powers as the Secretary of State. I don't think that's the correct explanation. You must have something better. But the answer is what I'd like from you now. Can you argue that any amendment that is justified in order for the courts to function more effectively will not work in this amendment. How do you base that? You guys know all the time, unless it's an agreement to boycott this whole thing, then it's got nothing to do with us doing it. But I don't believe in these theories. As long as I have no better arguments than those I have heard from the government and those who have done this law, here I really believe that the judiciary and those who are the providers of this system have been more or less prejudiced, proposed, challenged. But they don't agree with everything, but it's a fact. Finally, someone responsible for setting the conditions for action, the government and the ministry, must come up with appropriate solutions. And that's all I think.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u157	The Secretary of State, Boštjan Škrlec, has made a statement, and then we will make further applications. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u158	Thank you very much, Mr. President. In fact, I am obliged to respond because this is more a replica than a debate. With regard to the evidence that we are actually introducing and that everyone is against it, it was also your question that we do not listen to the Council of Justice and do not listen to the Supreme Court. I would like to say what the Council of Justice wrote in its opinion on 28 September 2009, when we had the first paper to set up a specialised section. He then wrote: "It would be better to consider whether, for systemic reasons, this problem could be resolved by appropriate organisational form within the framework of the annual layout of the work of the judges in the district courts in the seats of the higher courts." This is what we do, this is one of the possibilities that this law offers. The Supreme Court wrote on the same issue: "We further appreciate that the specialisation of judges in the district courts in Ljubljana, Maribor, Celje and Koper could achieve better effects. This proposal, which is before you today, contains both – specialisation within existing departments and the possibility of assigning additional judges to those in the entire territory of the higher court who wish to do so. Conditions are popular in that part relating to strictly formal conditions, such as the annual assessment of the judicial work and the knowledge of the foreign language, and remain the substantive condition of the competence to judge in such proceedings. Mr. Anderlich said most of what I wanted to say on my own. Somehow the basic point of government is that it wants a change, and you do not agree with the content of this change. Yes, not you, I don't know if you agree, then I also understand your question, which is only in the making and I understand that you will put it after the law is passed. And if your question is sincere, then make sure that you want this system to be effective. And if this system can be effective, then I'm counting on you to support this system. This system really wants to pursue a goal that we have been pursuing with the first novel. And if the greatest sin is that the solution from the first novel has not come to life, then I think it would be irresponsible if the government did not take measures to make the solution that it believes it can live, improve and enable the conditions in which it will live. This novel, which is before you today, offers these solutions and these solutions represent a more effective fight against economic crime, which is why it is worth supporting. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u159	Anyone else? Joseph Jerovšek, then Dr. Vinko Gorenak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, in your previous performance, you said that the obvious or intention in the background was unreasonable. I don't know on what basis. You and the Minister here reasoned two years ago on the amendment of the law, which established a specialised department at the District Court in Ljubljana. I think Mr Zalar, as a long-standing president of this court, knew what he was doing, what he was proposing. Were the conditions recorded in the law then lifeless? Then you manipulated the National Assembly. Do you and Mr Zalar feel uncomfortable that, with the same arguments as you have then ensured that it will start to be effective against economic crime and against corruption, you are today advocating a change of two laws. If we had proof that you set up that department, that at least one case went to trial through that department, that it wouldn't be empty, no law, I don't know how you lawyers say such laws, then someone might believe you. What argument is based on your and the ministry's assurance that it will now be? Are you kidding me? I don't know how many thousands of Slovenian judges say otherwise. They say that this is not necessary because we have a law and we should organize within it that the intention of the law is to deal with the organization rather than with the trial, with the courts. But I might believe you, too, if we didn't prove it then with the same arguments. Tell me, did you then manipulate Members of Parliament to make this effective? And it's not out of our hands to shave the fool to see senselessly now that we're comparing the argument, then and today. Because we also have experience from other departments that make these empty laws, empty laws with which they promise people, but now it will be better, showing pigeons on the roof. You know, the Slovenians are sober, better a sparrow in hand than a pigeon on a roof. And we don't need this pigeon on the roof and it's misleading the public to make a move on this. The shift must take place in the values of this coalition so that corruption within the government does not accelerate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the word. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Now, Mr. Anderlich has escaped from me. That's too bad. He said that I'm far-sighted, really, far worse to see, I'm more blind, but well, let's leave it. Mr. Secretary of State, you said, you who are here, see if I come to the market and say to the seller, "A kilo of potatoes." That means I want a kilo of potatoes. So don't offer me tomatoes because I have them at home. I asked you, which institution within the judicial system supports the organization — such as this amendment wants to be abolished or as you propose? No institution within the judiciary supports or all institutions within the judiciary oppose the four specialised departments. But all institutions support specialization. So it's what I've been trying to tell for half an hour, and a while ago, exactly what the judges want. Judges want a specialty, but they don't want to have four organizational forms called four specialized departments. Everyone's against it. Please answer that question. So no one supports this proposal. Specialisation is fine, control is fine, there is no problem, and all institutions within the judiciary oppose the four organizational forms called the four specialised departments. Everyone's against it. Please don't answer me with quotes. I've read everything you've got ahead of you. I'm very well prepared, you've probably noticed that, on every committee. All the opinions I've had, I've read them thoroughly since the penal department, so I know what they're saying. And no one, again, sees me being taken seriously by some of the coalition, I am also serious, so no one supports the four departments, but they are all for specialization. This is not a question, ladies and gentlemen. Let them work. Allow them to work in the framework of specialization, just as all judges want and do not impose on them something they do not want. Mr Anderlič said how I know that this will not be effective and how I know that such a question will be a question. Based on experience! Two years ago it was the same, you raped the judiciary with a specialized department and the judiciary responded with a "no". That's why we have this law here today, and it's setting up four departments. That's the only difference. The amendment would therefore have to be accepted and not rape the judges and allow them to specialize. That's all, there's no point in you explaining to me the specialty. We are all in favour of: the Council of Justice, the Supreme Court, the Penal Department, the Society of Justice. Everybody. I'm in. But they're all against it, and so am I, and they think they don't need four departments. And you're forcing four departments. Why? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u163	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not. Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The amendments will be decided today in the framework of the vote, in half an hour, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, which is at 3.05 p.m. This concludes this agenda item. I am adjourning the 27th meeting of the Assembly, which will be resumed by vote at 3 p.m. and 5 minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u164	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the votes of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the 6th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Complements of the Company Act in the framework of the shorter procedure. We will proceed with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled of 19. 4. 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. You want procedural, Mr. Kumer? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u165	Thank you, Mr. President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Since the Group of Members is still deciding on certain decisions today at the meeting of the National Assembly, I propose a 30-minute recess to agree on this further.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u166	This right shall be exercised by the Group of Members in accordance with its rules of procedure. I'm adjourning the session, which will be resumed at 3:36 p.m.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u167	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We continue with the adjournment of the sitting and the adjournment of the 6th point.We are in the vote. Please take your seats. At the initiative of the Head of the SD Group, we suspended the meeting. Does the leader of the parliamentary group want a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u168	Thank you. I thank you, colleagues and colleagues, for this half hour. We have made useful use of them and I propose that we continue.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u169	Thank you very much. Before that, we did not have an explanation of vote for this amendment. Anybody want to explain their voice? Mag. Vizjak, SDS Emissary Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u170	We are under the Company Act, and I believe that the law has not triggered this dilemma with the SD. In Article 1, the Slovenian Democratic Party proposes a much milder but more restrictive regime than the Government proposes. We propose that the management, procurator and executive director of an economic company should not enter into a legal business with a company in which the same person or his immediate family member is a silent member. We do not prevent the existence of silent societies, we do not prevent that potential positive effect of silent partners, which the government is talking about and you in the coalition, but we just want to prevent a clear conflict of interest when the same person is the management and at the same time a silent shareholder of the company. It is said that the same person is on the one hand and on the other side of the legal business. Therefore, if we are talking about companies owned by a majority of the state, we can conclude more than clearly if there is a conflict of interest that we can reasonably conclude that it is also a potential damage to state property. Dearly noted, if you have previously had reservations about supporting the removal of silent societies, although we believe in the Slovenian Democratic Party that this would be the most appropriate arrangement, this amendment has substantially changed or mitigated these consequences and we want to prevent only this obvious conflict of interest. It will be difficult to defend that officials must not be a priority in any economic entity, i.e. management, while at the same time the directors of state companies and other companies may also be silent partners with which this company operates. I believe that this amendment is an important contribution to the improvement of the text proposed by the Government, so I think it is worth supporting. We will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party and if this amendment is not supported, we will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u171	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 1. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 39. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 2. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 34 votes against 39. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 51 votes against 24. [[The vote was 51.]] [[Against 24.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 7th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Electronic Communications in the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendment tabled on 19. 4. 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of SD, Zares, DeSUS and LDS to Article 6. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 23. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against the 23rd.]] I take it the amendment has been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendment and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I note that the second reading assembly has adopted an amendment to Article 6 of the amended bill. I ask qualified candidates whether they intend to table an amendment to this Article. I guess not. I note that no amendments have been tabled to the proposal for a third hearing. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted in the second reading would make the proposal inconsistent. We are moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 46 votes against 3. [[The vote was 46.]] [[Against three.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 8th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Financial Insurance Act in the context of the reduced procedure. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present. It's 76 votes against no one. [[The vote was 76.]] [[No one's against it.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the Assembly that, pursuant to Article 153 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a formal consolidated text of the Financial Insurance Act. We're voting. Members of Parliament and Members 75, 70 votes in favour, 4 votes in favour. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against four.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the 9th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Judicial Service in the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is the decision on the amendment tabled, which we will make on the basis of the review of the amendment tabled of 20. 4. 2011. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group to Article 4. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u172	Thank you very much. Our amendment is closely linked to the law that we will vote on below. The Ministry of Justice came in 2009 with a law establishing a special specialized department for the most serious crimes before the District Court in Ljubljana. It's been two years, I must say, it's been two years and this department has not been established. However, it was not established because it could not be established because the judiciary simply did not accept it. The law that is before us today actually brings something that one of the coalition Members has beautifully illustrated, "We want to upgrade already done," he said. The coalition wants to upgrade something that didn't work. Which failed, so we're upgrading with something that's not going to work. What does that mean? To set up four departments for trial in such cases: in Cyprus, in Ljubljana, in Maribor and in Celje. What is particularly noteworthy in this regard is the following: all the authorities and all the institutions in the Court of Justice, the Association of Judges, to the Supreme Court of this Law and to the next object. Everybody says, "We're for specialty." But everyone says, "Don't make us start new departments. The establishment of new departments is not necessary because the existing law offers every opportunity to effectively prosecute such cases." So it's not understandable. And I also did not get an answer from the Secretary of State, although it was time for the Justice Ministry to re-rape the judiciary with something that the judiciary simply does not accept. It's not just that the judiciary doesn't accept it. The point is that what the Ministry is proposing is really unacceptable. There is no reason, as I explained earlier, that a judge from Velenje or White Platoon, if you want, will have to drive or even apply to such a department in Celje, if you can do your job in Velenje. The point is to stimulate and prepare him for this — and they are prepared — so there is no reason for us to establish something that is not necessary and which is opposed by the complete judiciary. I suggest you support the amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u173	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 30 votes against 41. [[The vote was 30.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have ended our vote on the amendments, with a second reading of the bill in the context of a reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendment has not been adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that, due to the amendments adopted on the home labour body, the bill would not be harmonised. The explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be given by Joseph Jerovšek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u174	Thank you very much. As already mentioned, this law is basically a twin with a law on courts. This law provides for the possibility of assigning judges to a specialised section for judging in the most difficult cases of economic crime. However, since almost identical government law has been introduced and adopted two years ago, it is already clear in advance that this law does not have any effect, as the Supreme Court, the Supreme Court and the Court of Justice and the Court of Justice have said, that it will block the work, prosecution and judgment of economic crime, organised crime and corruption, it is therefore clear that these two laws are being put into place because of the blockade, the deliberate prevention of corruption and the deliberate maintenance of corruption. Nonsens is that the Ministry, the Ministry, the Secretary of State, the Government today provides effects on the basis of exactly the same arguments they presented two years ago, even though that court, that department did not come to life and meant only delaying and retaining and blocking. Therefore, colleagues and colleagues, it is our duty to overlook, anticipate such intentions that are behind us in order to prevent the repeal of such laws or the enforcement of such laws, which will bring nothing, and thereby protect the prudence of the judiciary, which the Government is actually trying to discredit, for it shows the people before the justice of the pigeon on the roof, if, but now it will be much better, and now we will pursue economic crime, and now the judges will decide on this persecution. We already have a law that, according to the Council of Justice and judges, allows for the classification and specialisation of specialised trials and all procedural conditions are given to do so. Unfortunately, there is clearly no political will in government to do so. This law should therefore be rejected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 30. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 30.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 10th item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Courts in the framework of the shorter procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which we will carry out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 20. 4. 2011. We are moving on to Article 2 and to a decision on the amendment of the SDS Group Ambassador to Article 2. In doing so, I would remind you that the amendment is substantively linked to the amendment to Article 36. If this amendment is not adopted, the amendment to Article 36 becomes irrelevant. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u176	Thank you very much. Of course, more because of history, magnetograms and everything than to be able to convince the coalition. Obviously, the consultation didn't help either. The situation is simply such, ladies and gentlemen, I can say this to the public, you are covering with this amendment, which you obviously intend to throw away, what you are the smallest government party to afford. Keep covering! There's no reason to push the judges into something they don't want to accept. On the other hand, we are talking about the fact that the judiciary is not working. Yeah, well, if they're still where the judiciary just tells us where it sees solutions, and that's in specialization and not in setting up new departments, you're raping them with some new organization. That means they'll be doing their own organization again for six months. I had already announced to the Secretary of State a question before, and I will ask it a month after the law has to be implemented. And it's like, "Why haven't you fixed them yet?" Because the situation will be identical as it was in 2009. Even then we listened to the same reasons for the coalition, the same reasons for the minister, nothing happened, there was no department in Ljubljana. And here, too, we are on our way, or the coalition is on its way to make a difference again because of the public, because of a few ten statements, due to a few ten members that will be written in the newspapers tomorrow, but the truth will be completely different. Inefficiency will continue. Raping the judiciary in this way — as well as raping people in some other reforms — is not good. At least a consensus should be reached with them. If it is not possible to achieve it in other areas, I am convinced that it can be achieved with the Council of Justice and the Supreme Court. Last but not least, the Supreme Court is run by someone chosen by the coalition, at the will of the minister. And this same person, this is Mr. Maslesha, telling this law "no". But the coalition roller doesn't know the limits. Ladies and gentlemen, don't be surprised at what you've been experiencing these days. It's too bad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u177	Thank you very much. We're voting on the amendment. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. This made the decision on the amendment to Article 36 irrelevant. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since the proposed amendments were not adopted in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. Joseph Jerovšek has an explanation on behalf of the SDS Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u178	Thank you very much. It's a similar matter because it's a twin marriage. The government, following a failed and failed trial in 2009, now that it has established a specialised department at the District Court in Ljubljana, is slightly changing the case, in explanation it is more popular for the people and represents the organization of four such specialised departments in four district courts. Since the entire judiciary, the Council of Justice, the Supreme Court, all say in one voice that this will only increase organisational work and block specific matters, it is clear what the government and this coalition are about to do. Blocking the persecution of economic crime, corruption, serious crimes, because your decision is logical, in case of persecution, your political option will suffer because your people will be persecuted. And we must, of course, be Members at this time when we are faced with ever-new and new corruption issues – in recent times, we are dealing with Zoran Thaler, where the Sunday Times says he has not been randomly chosen, because there are signs that he has behaved this way in the past. Maybe you know more about what you're preventing and what you're protecting. This law has bad intentions. With the same arguments, the Ministry defends and represents the benefits of this law, as it represented the benefits of a novel that did not come into force at all, which was cast as sand in the eyes of the people and as an obstacle to the court two years ago. In this, the old propaganda practice of all totalitarian systems is to present people with ever-new solutions, which will make things much better now, and everything will be fine. It's exactly the same practice now. We have the current law on courts, which allows judges to go to specialisation, can set up new departments and there is no need for a new law, so it must be reprimanded for bad intentions in the background. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u179	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 31. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 31.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 1st item of the agenda, which is the question of Members and Members. With regard to the proposal by Mr Yelinčič Plemenite, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of the European Union's victory for the construction of the Aeronautic Museum of Western Europe. We're voting. There are 75 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 46. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 46.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of the Member of the Mag. Andrej Visiak will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Prime Minister Borut Pahor to the question of mags. Andrey Vissiak about the public debt. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u180	Your Honor! The public debt or debt of the country's wider sector is increasing within the government's mandate at an extraordinary rate and will exceed 43% of GDP this year and 45% of GDP next year. Let me mention that the current government started a public debt of 21.5% of GDP in 2008. This is a remarkable trend that worries. Of course, we are concerned, and especially about taxpayers, who will have to pay this debt in the future. This debt will consume investments, will eat up measures to improve the quality of life in this country. It is therefore necessary to take immediate measures to curb the rise in this public debt. I asked Prime Minister Pahor what, above all, short-term measures are planned to ease or plague the growing public debt. Why short-term? Because he has a maximum of one and a half years left, and it would be good for him to do something in this year and a half, but not leave everything to the late governments to be saved. In this mandate, the Borut Pahor government will on average be indebted to all citizens more than 1,000 euros a year, or four to five thousand euros a year in this mandate. The Prime Minister's response was extraordinary, kind of unsettled, uninnovative. The answer was that the Prime Minister has no ideas; he has no solution how to deal with this problem. He said that the most important short-term measure to tackle public debt is the pension reform and the referendum that will take place in this regard. However, he himself spoke weeks ago, and the figures also show that the pension reform does not have any short-term financial implications, especially the medium- and long-term effects of the Government's calculations. So the Prime Minister has no idea. He doesn't have a solution. And that's the problem! Let us therefore help him, dear colleagues, to help in this House, to open a debate at a future session on this and to exchange views on how this can be done. Let us exchange ideas to encourage economic activity in order to encourage the creation of new jobs in order to tax and administratively relieve the economy in order to start with significant investments in order to adopt a austerity measure in this country. I think this discussion is more than necessary. If the government has no ideas, unless it offers appropriate effective solutions, I hope that we Members can help it. Therefore, support this proposal, because we will support it in the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u181	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 74 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 40. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Krivac, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Mr Igor Lukšić, Minister of Education and Sport, to the question of Mr Krivc's question on licensing. Daniel Krivec has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u182	Thank you for your word. We are again faced with a possible marginal problem for the National Assembly, but there are too many such peripheral problems in our country. The Minister's reply received in the National Assembly indicated that this problem was aware that it had already been recorded last year, that negotiations had taken place between the Ministry of Economy, Inspection Services and the Ministry of Education, but that the problem had not been resolved. This, however, causes great problems for certain economic operators in the field of tourism. And you're really embarrassed before this season, whether they can carry on their business. And given that the Minister himself has found that the problem is evident and that it needs to be resolved, I appeal to you to support this proposal, to hold a debate and, in some way, to help the Ministry find a suitable solution, which is certainly in the domain of the Ministry of Education and Sport, which is responsible for the functioning of the Olympic Committee, which is also empowered to issue these licences. I think that in a country where an individual cannot obtain a licence, in some way the inspection of that citizen should not require it, so in this case the competent institution should also arrange it in an appropriate manner. And if this is not settled for more than a year, the National Assembly is also competent to warn the Ministry that such things do not take place in our legislation. I therefore ask you to support this debate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u183	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 40. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In line with the proposal by Mr Grill, the National Assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Minister of the Interior Katarina Kresal to the question of Mr Grill's delegation regarding the acquisition of new radar devices intended to measure the speed ahead of toll stations on motorways. The explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be given by Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The characteristic of this government is that it wants to fill the state budget in order to increase taxes, excise duties all the time, so that they are among the highest in Europe, and, last but not least, it wants to additionally fill the budget by collecting fines from all those who exceed speed. To demonstrate this purpose in such an uncorrected way shows the fact that many times radar ambushes are placed on sections which are limited to signs that are unduly placed where transport safety is not actually compromised. Even more unusual or, we can say, even, but it's vile that police officers hide and measure speed exceeders behind toll stations. Apparently, toll stations are set up or standing just for the reason that they are trying to get more depthed people who exceed a mile [km] in speed. More recently, however, the latest information that has come to the public that the Ministry of the Interior has purchased additional stationed automatic radar stations that will be stationed directly at toll stations. This means that all those who exceed a mile [km] of speed there will be added to the depths. On this question, the Minister did not know or wanted to specifically answer that these new radar stations were intended exclusively for toll stations, but indirectly turned the answer that this was mainly due to the replacement of existing stations and that they would not be intended only for toll stations. Such a response has not been satisfactory, so it is right to have a general discussion here, where we will be able to respond in full to such attempts as to measure these speeds in such sections where the signs of restriction are set in an unjustified, unnecessary manner and thus do nothing to contribute to the improvement of traffic safety. The Minister herself agreed that the removal of toll stations should be considered. Perhaps, through this debate, we could identify the reasons why and, of course, how the toll stations are still where they are. In spite of the fact that we have introduced a law in the Slovenian Democratic Party which will further impose upon Darsa to remove these toll stations, I believe that such a discussion will only be in favour of this. I therefore expect that this proposal for a general debate will also be undermined. I will support it myself and the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group will also support the proposal for this debate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u185	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 76 Members and Members present, 33 votes in favour and 41 against. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Vinko Gorenak, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of Justice Minister Aleš Zalar to the question of Mr Vinko Gorenak on the legal arrangements for the supervision of the work of judges and prosecutors. Dr Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u186	Thank you very much. I also asked a similar question from the Member States concerning the regulation of supervision in the judiciary in January. It is that every system, any system — including the judicial system — needs control. With us, the situation is such that the constitutional regulation of supervision, at least by the minister, restricts or puts it at a level when it is no longer controlled. However, within the judiciary, at least under existing legislation, there is a lower degree of judicial review. But everything shows that the system as such simply does not work in this context. Let me just give you a few examples. I get answers from the Minister of Justice about the bankruptcy managers on a daily or weekly basis, so that we don't overdo it. I'm asking him why he's here, why there's some sort of bankruptcy award down there, contrary to the rule of law. The answer is always the same, 'we cannot influence the decisions of the court, the higher courts will already cancel'. Finally, we had the following case. Someone who has a license as a bankruptcy manager freezes it. Three days before she ceases to be CEO of a company, she'll be defrosted. 24 hours after it is thawed, it gets one of the biggest bankruptcys in Slovenia. The bankruptcy is done and three days before the bankruptcy takes place, it freezes. Don't tell me, given that the courts decide that this is not agreed upon with the courts. I wonder how much money this is agreed on. It's just one of the cases. Not to mention all the other cases we have in front of us every day. Let me remind you again, 11 million Euros of taxpayer money will be paid by taxpayers for an outdated trial. However, the Minister and the Coalition still refer to the independence of the judiciary. The judiciary is a system that represents one of the pillars of the state. This pillar is in Slovenia. It doesn't work, it doesn't hold, it doesn't support the country if you want. And this system needs to be reformed. And at this stage, let's just talk about control within the judiciary. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u187	Thank you very much. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 75 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 41. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 41.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Zvonk Černač, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of the Environment and Space of Dr Rok Žarnić to the question of Mr Zvonk Černač on the implementation of the Law on the Consent and Guarantee of the Republic of Slovenia for the obligations of Dars from credits and issued debt securities for the realisation of the construction of motorway sections from the national programme for the construction of motorways in the Republic of Slovenia. Mr Zvonko Černač has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u188	Thank you very much. In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group, we will support the debate on this answer because the answer raises one more important question than the question raised only by the Member State. In the context of the question, I highlighted the inappropriate use of money from guarantees. This is the 300 million euro circus that you have adopted in the National Assembly, more than half of which is dedicated to the introduction of an electronic toll system, with important transport infrastructure projects standing or not going anywhere. From the answer we heard in one particular case, it is a highway connection to Illyrian Bistrica or Jelšan, that this state spatial plan had already been launched during the previous government, in June 2005, that studies had been made by 2007 and that something should be happening after all these years. No, you don't. The current government has ordered the re-production of studies, which were already produced by 2007 and have identified the most appropriate route, in such a way that it does not burden the local environment and appropriately places this link in the space with the smallest costs. Now new studies have been commissioned, I don't know what the purpose is, and why they're supposed to find that some other route is appropriate. Six years have passed since the start of the State Spatial Plan and in six years has not even been established on paper the most appropriate route. This is not the case only in this particular case, when people rightly expect an appropriate link that they do not have, because in this area we will soon experience Gornja Radgon, this is also the case for all other areas that do not have the right connections to the motorway network in the Republic of Slovenia and in the future with such a way of working, if it takes six years only to find the right variants, they will not have them. It is necessary to discuss this response, a debate in which the Ministry of Environment and Space and Transport should explain how it is possible that, despite strong legislation, despite the amendment of the law you passed last year to accelerate the placement of such projects into space, these procedures continue for a number of years. Nor was the Minister able to explain when work was to begin on this route, nor was he able to explain when this connection was to be built. In one reply, however, he said that only placing or completing such a State spatial plan would take at least six years. In these circumstances, I think it is unacceptable that the country needs a faster procedure in the execution of such important infrastructure projects and that the debate should determine why these procedures are not going optimally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u189	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 33 votes against 37. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Alenka Jeraj, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the reply of the Minister of Higher Education, Science and Technology, Gregor Golobič, and the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz Križanič, to the question of Alenka Jeraj, on the issue of parking on the ground, which was envisaged for the construction of the new National and University Library. Alenka Jeraj has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u190	Thank you for your word. I asked both ministers about the land envisaged for NUK 2, which we will obviously not be waiting for under this government. I asked why the Ministry decided to conclude a contract with the Municipality of Ljubljana to manage this land. The Minister explained to me that because they had the requirements of the competent institution of the Ministry of Culture to protect the excavations. The closure of the cave would cost 400 000 euros, so the Government decided in September 2009 to conclude a contract with the MOL, which will be the user of these premises. The MOL, as you know, then sent this out, a very successful mayor for the incredible 166 000 euros with his friends from Gradis Group G, which we also meet in some other projects in the municipality, and in 2010 he earned 365 000 euros in parking fees. This year, however, they are planning a slightly higher profit, €383,000. The contract was concluded by March of this year. On Monday, the Minister said that the contract was extended by 2 months, despite the fact that the Municipality of Ljubljana did not agree to share half of its profits or car parks with the State, with the Ministry of Higher Education. The contract has been extended for two months and is likely to continue if we understood the Minister correctly yesterday. The Minister considers this a good decision, unlike us, but he did not even wonder if the parking lot might not need a philosophy college, which is nearby and which he is responsible for as a Minister of Higher Education, but is concerned about the visitors of Ljubljana, where they will park. This is not a problem for Minister Križanič, either, although, in the case of an empty budget or a large hole and in the case of large debts, we believe, 500 000 euros could be an important contribution to the budget. I therefore propose that we hold a debate on the response of both ministers. We will vote in favour of this in the SDS Group of Members, and I also invite you to join us in this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u191	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 74 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 39. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Ambassador Franz Bogovic, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for the Economy of Mags. Darje Radic and Minister of Finance Dr. Franz Križanič on the question of the post of Mr. Franz Bogovic regarding the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor. The explanation of vote shall be given by Mr Franz Bogovic on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u192	Dear colleagues and colleagues! Last May we adopted the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia and committed ourselves to acting in Slovenia in accordance with OECD standards as well as good governance. On the basis of this law, the Agency for Capital Investment Management was established in the Republic of Slovenia. However, the law we adopted last year makes it very clear in Article 8 that the strategy for asset management is adopted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a proposal from the Government of the Republic of Slovenia and the proposal for a strategy is prepared by the Agency on the basis of sectoral policies. In this bad year, it has not yet happened that sectoral policies have been adopted, except that the government of this sector policy has adopted and presented to us a strategy for managing capital investments in the Republic of Slovenia. As a result of the fact that we do not have these documents adopted, but we are obliged here in Parliament to define ourselves until this strategy, what has been very clear to us in recent days also from the response of the two ministers, says the Minister of Economy and the Minister of Finance that we have different opinions on the management of state property and that, in fact, the public controversy between the ministers has also erupted in recent days, as well as in the Slovenian section, that such a way of managing state property as we now have is wrong. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have always argued and advocated the view that Slovenia, the National Assembly on behalf of this country, on a proposal, as set out in the law, sectoral policies adopted by the government, must be defined to the vital state property represented by energy companies, then also by infrastructure companies and the banking sector. In recent days, the uncoordinated policies of individual ministers have led to the recapitalisation of NKBM in a way that we firmly believe should not have happened. In the Slovenian People's Party, we have no problem with what happened here, and we are convinced that state property must be treated responsibly and behaved in the long term, but the National Assembly must do so in accordance with the law. Since we have not received these documents in one year, I propose that we hold this debate in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and we also hear those responsible when these documents come or bring us these documents in the meantime. That is why I call on you, my fellow Members and colleagues, to support this proposal and all of us together to act responsibly towards the state property of 6.7 billion, on which the future of the Republic of Slovenia depends to a large extent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u193	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 73 Members and 34 Members present, voting against 37. [[The vote was 34.]] [[Against 37.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Mr Rudolph Petan, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a discussion at the next meeting on the response of the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Magnetic Nutrition. On the question of the quality of milk by Rudolf Petan. Mr Rudolf Petan has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SDS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u194	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! I asked the Minister for Agriculture, Forestry and Food about the homogenisation of milk. The food industry is using this procedure to extend the shelf life of milk. Therefore, homogenised milk can be sold for four months without being in the refrigerator. As a result, when no milk is added, the chemical structure of fatty molecules is changed in the homogenisation process. And this new chemical structure is such that the body can't, it can't process this fat, which is medicinal, useful for the body, especially for children, and at the same time because of this structure the body can't absorb all the calcium in the milk. The Minister replied to me that this fact of homogenisation knows that he does not currently have information on the impact on the body. And given that parents in good faith benefit their children, give their children milk, and that these things are held and are already many professional members, people need to be told what the consequences of the use of homogenised milk are. These results were obtained by noticing in England that children have had their veins covered for three years. Since children do not yet enjoy hamburgers that are supposed to be the cause in adults, they have found that it is homogenised milk. I am not blind to the fact that the food industry in Slovenia would simply give up this ease in selling milk because it is a really elegant solution. Four months of milk like that can stand on a shelf and there's no problem, it doesn't go bad. However, people need to be told the truth about this. And that is all I would like to discuss with adults is whether it is worth using this elegantly prepared milk, which is harmful to both children and adults, or whether they start using non-homogenised milk again, which can otherwise only be bought on milk that is higher every day in Slovenia and in specialized major stores where they also have non-homogenised, only pasteurised milk. For this reason, I propose that the debate be held, that we tell people, and then that they decide for themselves whether they will use homogenised milk, which is very elegant for use, or whether they will use some otherwise prepared milk that is more medicinal and more useful for the body. I therefore propose that you support this proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u195	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, 33 votes against 40. [[The vote was 33.]] [[Against 40.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. In accordance with the proposal of Member Milan Čadež, the assembly will decide on the following proposal for a decision: The National Assembly will hold a debate at the next meeting on the response of the Minister of Environment and Space, Dr Rok Žarnić, to Milan Čadež's question on the valuation of land following which the categorised local roads, public roads and other public areas are taking place. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the SDS Group Milan Čadež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u196	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Two months ago, I asked this question to the Minister. He answered me that he knew the solutions when it was going to be, and he didn't even know how to say it. He told me he'd be looking into his associates at the Geodetics Board. However, he mentioned that the matter was not complicated in time, but rather a political solution, which I believe today. First of all, I was interested in what are the concrete solutions that are being prepared in the direction of road registration and, above all, in how the property owner will be able to determine the area of land which is already a road in nature during the transitional period. This is a matter of concern, and I can say quite a good number of our citizens, who own land where they take place in the nature of the road. Even more serious problems are faced by congregations in the country, for it is the owners who are asking the congregations to settle these matters. In view of the current situation in the country, as the Minister is also on the move, it is essential that a public debate be held on this subject. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u197	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 77 Members and Members present, with 31 votes against 43. [[The vote was 31.]] [[Against 43.]] I take it that the decision is not taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the termination of the 2nd item of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Proposal for the initiation of a procedure for the amendment of Articles 160, 161 and 162 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia with the draft constitutional law. Do you want to do it on a case-by-case basis? Mr. Anderlich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u198	Your Honor! Given that this point relates to the opening of a procedure for amending the Constitution, this is such an important matter that some things still need to be harmonised before the vote and I therefore propose that, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, this point be put to the vote on this point, of course, at this beginning of the procedure, at one of the future meetings.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u199	Thank you very much. The proposer submitted the proposal in accordance with the first paragraph of Article 74 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly. We will decide on it on the basis of article 64, paragraph 10, of the law, so I give the word to the Government if it wishes. We only have a secretary of state here. I give the floor to representatives of the parliamentary groups, three minutes is available if they wish to make a statement on this proposal. Jože Tanko on behalf of the SDS Group, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u200	Thank you very much. We will not support this procedural proposal. We believe that the hearing on the Constitutional Commission has lasted long enough, sufficiently comprehensively, that a decision has been adopted on the Constitutional Commission, which shows that this procedure needs to be completed as soon as possible, which is why it is inappropriate to exhaust the National Assembly and the Members as well. Obviously, the coalition is ready to devote a great deal of time to topics that do not bring any added value, do not produce any results, but just waste time on Members and also on professional services and on everyone else. We will not support this procedural proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u201	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Miran Potč has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u202	Thank you very much. In our Group of Members, we will support the proposal for postponement. Not because we would not be convinced that the debate is being held, but because we hope that opposition opposition opposition groups who oppose us may think about it, given their views that it is wise to make proposals that resolve the issue of legality and constitutionality, to answer positively, but not simply reject them out of capriciousness and out of conjecture to those who have submitted the proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u203	Mag. Vizjak, I'm in charge of the session. I also give the floor to France Yuri of the Zares Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u204	Thank you for your word. Indeed, the Group considers that the proposal of LDS colleagues is justified and legitimate, especially because it is an important issue of constitutional change. When it comes to such a question, no one is in a hurry and must not rush. If there is still a chance to harmonise something and to come to a better vote, this option should be offered an opportunity. That is how we will support the proposal put forward by our colleague Anderlich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u205	Thank you very much. On behalf of the LDS Club, Anton Anderlich has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u206	We will, of course, support the proposal, which is why I gave it. In our view, it is not a matter of wasting time. They would have wasted it if we had voted today and had completed the procedure. As everyone is aware, there have been a number of proposals, initiatives, initiatives in recent times to ensure that all political parties and political actors settle down and find some solutions, including proposals for constitutional change. It is not a matter of prestige to us who has put forward a proposal and what path he has gone through, but it is also true that we are going to look at those initiatives that have already been in the past and which are also predicted by the biggest opposition party, so we will be happy to examine them with all our responsibility and perhaps find a common point. I would be happy to say not, but from the urgent need to save this country – thank Mr Ptræ – because it is an integral part of our work and responsibility. We don't run away from this and we don't want to compete and we don't want to reject one thing just by counting ourselves in the hall, and if there is some voice missing on the other side, even when it comes to the issue of the two-thirds majority, the responsibility is so much greater that we don't get caught up in this trap and we don't use this parliament to bargain and tear down some things just to prove that the proposals we're making are better and they'll come in tomorrow because they're yours because they've failed because we weren't for them. That sounds like bad messages to me. It is an opportunity for us to study this issue until the next or one of the future meetings, with all that we have on the table, so to speak, and decide on it. That is why we will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u207	Thank you very much. I conclude the debate on the proposal for a postponement. We are moving on to a decision on the motion to postpone the decision on the Proposal for a Decision that the National Assembly adopts a proposal from the Government to initiate a constitutional change procedure. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 76 Members and Members present, with 45 votes against 30. [[The vote was 45.]] [[Against 30.]] I note that the decision has been taken and the National Assembly will therefore decide on the proposal for a decision at one of the following meetings. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to item 5 of the agenda, which is the consideration of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Tax Service Act in the framework of the shorter procedure. We are moving on to the third reading of the bill. Since no amendments to the amended law have been tabled in the second reading, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the amendments adopted on the home labour body would make the bill inconsistent. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 13th item of the agenda, this is the consideration of the proposal for a law on transparency of financial relations and the separate recording of various activities under the third reading. Since no amendment was adopted by the mother labour body to the draft law, the amendments at the meeting of the National Assembly could not be tabled, so we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a law. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 73 Members and Members present, 73 votes against none. [[The vote was 73.]] [[No one.]] I take it the law has been passed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 14th item of the agenda, this is the first reading of the draft law on mandatory testing of banned drugs officials. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The draft law on mandatory testing of banned drugs officials is suitable for further consideration. The explanation for the vote on behalf of the SDS Group shall be mag. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u208	Your Honor! I would like to recall that yesterday, at the meeting and also after it, a bunch of readings were removed from the SDS Group as a proponent of this law, that something such as to introduce mandatory drug testing, in particular to extend it a little bit, as some of us have suggested, if I quote from memory, "no one in a democratic country would even come to mind". Therefore, as an argument that the law is suitable for further consideration, I would like to present the situation in the state of Missouri, where, on 4 February 2010, the law, ladies and gentlemen, which requires everyone in the legislative, executive and judicial branches of government to be tested for drugs before taking office, and even more so that they must then be tested every two years as to whether they have been exposed to illicit substances. This is not only said that such a proposal was voted somewhere as interesting to say that it was voted by a majority that went far across the party's borders, since it was 144 votes and only 8 against. And those who don't know perhaps the American regime, given what was heard in the middle, in America the union only has powers to exercise certain powers on behalf of the countries and the states are the bearers of primary authority, which is the American federal regime. Let me make another simple comparison with that. The U.S. state of Missouri is more developed than Slovenia, has faster economic growth and its legislative and executive branches of authorities have been functioning very well in recent years, unlike Slovenia, where the current government and the ruling coalition in the sea of endless disputes are falling apart from day to day. So it's no wonder if you ask an ordinary person when the only thing he's going to say and support such a proposal for mandatory testing will simply say, "We've had enough of you." For this reason, ladies and gentlemen, because it is a matter of development, because it is a matter of some influence which can have an objective impact on the decisions of those who take decisions and, therefore, is in the public interest, we will be united in supporting this law in the SDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Dejan Levanič has an explanation of vote on behalf of the SD Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u210	Thank you so much for saying that. In the Group of Social Democrats, we consider that the law is certainly not suitable for further consideration, because we cannot say the law in this text in our opinion, but unfortunately, if we are honest, only one succinct, because the articles and explanations to this article are the same, so you know that you have repeatedly troubled yourself, so the laws do not. In addition, the articles have nothing to do with the introductory part of the law, where you speak one and in the articles you describe the other. No one here said that, indeed, everyone should take responsibility, be tested, present these results to the public, but this is not a matter of legal matter, so you cannot force anyone to prove to the Slovenian public that on the basis of this test it will be better development or otherwise that Slovenia will emerge faster from the crisis. They're flossules and they're just throwing sand in your eyes. I would like this country, which you have mentioned now, mentioned before in the law, instead mentioning some European countries that have never adopted such a law, so much for information, no European country has such a law, and you have lied about the adoption of such a law in Australia. That's absolutely not true. It is a bill, but it is not a law, so the law is not adopted. We can't get past the fact that you're always trying to instill certain things, just as it was in the archive affair, when you made some documents wrong, so it's obviously happening now in this law. Because of this and the responsibility towards this institution, what should be the proposal for a law that should be passed by Roma in the procedure of the National Assembly, the Social Democrats simply cannot vote in favour of such a law. But when you make an effort to make a better marriage, we can consider any other decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u211	Is there any other group that would like to explain its voice? [[No, no, ……]] Since there is more than one proposal, the initiatives for reasoning, I open the application, and I ask you not to dispute your voice in your explanation of vote, but simply to state the reasons why you intend to vote one way or another. The explanation of vote is given by Vito Rožej. Please respect the warnings I gave you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u212	Thank you for your word. Mr President, don't worry, they're your instructions, and I think they might already know this, which is unnecessary for my reasons of voice. The 35th Article of the Slovenian Constitution tells us about the right to privacy. The right to privacy is a right that is before, for example, the right to a religion, without privacy, there is no freedom of religion, and there is no inviolability of an apartment. I believe that they are parts of the world that know the death penalty, who do not recognize the right to abortion and who may also be legitimizing such tests. Slovenia is not part of that world, Slovenia is part of another more civilized world, which has apparently forgotten about some democratic gains, at least for some, already. As far as I'm concerned, I don't consider privacy a condition of autonomy, which is a condition of freedom and security, if you will, and democracy. I think that the right to privacy also falls on the right to private property and could also be listed. Whoever has this right to privacy, which is a constitutionally guaranteed right, breaks down the entire system, which is why 90 of us are sitting here in the first place. I am sure that the real purpose of this proposal is the same as the calls made in this House, which spoke of some other examinations, examinations of the hindquarters. And that is the true nature of this marriage proposal, which he himself would be ashamed of. And that's why I can't support him. It grieves me, however, that you have gladly signed others below, because I think that denial of the right to privacy is a matter of totalitarianism, which is obviously still inherent to some, even though they have a full mouth to fight against some totalitarianism. Apparently, the movement in the head hasn't been made in a long time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u213	Thank you very much. Brada Pecan has an explanation for the vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u214	Thank you, Mr. President. I will vote against this proposal that the law is suitable for further consideration, because I believe that interference with the special rights of people with mandatory testing for the use of illicit drugs is the least, which is humiliating for us who are in the National Assembly, because we are ultimately responsible people. The argument that Missouri can be a model for us is, however, I do not think it is at all true, because at least what it is, this country still retains the death penalty. I think it is problematic in this way to argue the requirement to test the use of illicit drugs in politics or in any other profession. I think it's right to test for the presence of illicit drugs and alcohol in driving a car because we endanger the lives of other people if we drive under the influence of drugs or alcohol. But it's not about the profession, it's about the action, and it's about putting other people at risk, not about the fact that in the National Assembly, in the government, the mayors, of course, all of this logic is likely to be tested, I don't know where that would lead. A mature political party does not do such things as this bill was.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u215	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has an explanation of his vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u216	Thank you very much. In the first explanation of the SD Group's voice, we heard a placard of readings and shouting at Mr Grims. You were looking at the ground, and please, if you're looking at it now. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u217	Mr. Gorenak, I'm in charge of the session. I'll decide when someone's crossed the line, when they're not.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u218	Give me back my time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u219	You remind me of a football player who complains about cardboard. Go on, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u220	Could I have two minutes, just like it is by the rules of procedure, without you breaking up with me once? That would be good, too. We've heard that it's crumbling, we've heard that it doesn't have any articles and so on. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, there was a high school minister sitting on that chair who said the interpolation was crumbling, the interpolation was not worth the paper on which it was written and so on. That was when you gave him 10 million euros that Jankovic sent to the stadium. What's going on today? And today the ministers resign, the NPU investigates it and so on. Oh, that's okay. That didn't go away. Let's move on. Why did this marriage come about? Because the responsible people of this government did not convincingly and conclusively reject certain assumptions. That's the only reason. The next issue is the right to privacy. Informants, including police officers, including pilots, even those with hair up to here, can't work behind machines because their hair can pull in. When it came to deciding when someone earlier said it was about life on the road and so on. My dears, when it comes to decision-making in the National Assembly and the government, it's 120 thousand unemployed. And I don't see any reason for you to reject this matter. One who has a good conscience can support this. But if anyone has anything behind them, he'll say, "I won't, I don't hope." That's the only reason, ladies and gentlemen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u221	Thank you very much. John Grill has an explanation of vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u222	Thank you very much. I ask you to calm down the coalition, Mr. President. Apparently, such a coalition law is an unpleasant topic, for it is known that there have been numerous suspicions in their ranks that certain ministers have probably also had the content of these prohibited substances. It is certainly not possible to compare with the driver of a car, who is always subject to a police officer’s testing of alcohol content as well as banned substances. And certainly such a driver is a danger in road transport, but he is certainly a significantly greater threat to the country if a minister or a high official, after all, is acting as an MP if he has these prohibited substances in him. Why are you afraid of mandatory testing if an independent commission asks us to? There is no reason here to complain that this law is inappropriate, that there are no articles, that there are no proper explanations. A respected coalition, if what is now written is not enough, we can also draw for you to understand the meaning and the need for such a law. This law can set an example for all those in responsible positions, including those who face problems associated with the use of illicit drugs. That's why, of course, I'm going to support this marriage. It would be good if you were also in favour of this proposal in the coalition, so let us be a country in the European Union, which will be an example for other countries to be able to face such laws in the future and not least to introduce them. No country is immune to drugs and neither is Slovenia, so I will support this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u223	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 26 votes against 44. [[The vote was 26.]] [[Against 44.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the end of the 16th item of the agenda, which is the first reading of the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Establishment of Municipalities and the Designation of Their Areas. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law establishing municipalities and determining their areas is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. Excuse me. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the parliamentary group? In your own name? Does any of the parliamentary groups want to explain their voice? [[No, no, ……]] An explanation of the voice in your own name? Franco Yuri, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u224	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. I will vote for the law or for such a decision, because I believe that this will confirm my commitment to the rule of law, to the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and to the democratic principles in which I believe. This is the first vote on this law at the plenary session of the National Assembly following the publication of a decision by the Constitutional Court defining the conduct of those who did not allow the establishment of the College of Ankara under the law and in the National Assembly of a confirmed referendum in Ankara as arbitrary. I will vote in favour of the law because, otherwise, at the next meeting, we will consider a resolution whereby the motioners would like to visit the Constitutional Court and demean themselves to absurdity. I will vote in favour because in many extrapolated quotations yesterday someone forgot to quote a key sentence from the letter to the Constitutional Court, which frozen the elections in Cyprus in 1998. The letter came after the referendums imposed by the Constitutional Court decision and I was alone among the signatories to the support. I quote: "Ninety percent of the resistance to any change of state commits that until such time as this kind of interest is created here alone and proven itself by majority will, we cannot do otherwise." This majority interest in Ankara was proven in 2009, so I will vote in favour.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u225	Thank you very much. Dr. Luke Juri has an explanation for the vote on his behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u226	Since I think the new congregation in the area of Ankaran has no conditions, I will vote against it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-20-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u227	Thank you very much. We're voting. There are 73 Members and Members present, 17 votes against 48. [[The vote was 17.]] [[Against 48.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 27th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 9:00. Thank you very much and good-bye.
