ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 24th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members are unable to attend today's meeting: Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Renata Brunskole, Mag. Juliana Bizjak Mlakar, Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, Melita Župevc, Anton Anderlich, Miran Györek, Anton Kampus, Franz Bogovich, Villa Trofenik, Janez Janša, Victory Jelinčič Nobleni, Marian Križman, Milenko Ziherl and Daniel Krivec. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 21. At the outset, this is a proposal for a law on changes and additions to the law on financial transactions, the procedure for insolvency and forcible termination, within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. With regard to this bill, a group of 21 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Just take your time. I know you've had a rough night, night and morning.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for waiting for me. True, it's a hard night to make your own. Look, the law we're talking about, and the law we've presented, I'm going to shorten it to a bankruptcy law so people can understand me better. Someone is in another, specifically Dr. Pirnat, who spoke in the event of another law and non-compliance with the law on the so-called fertilizing bull of the rule of law. I could say, according to many public debates, even after the public debate that was seen on national television last night, that bankruptcy procedures also represent some kind of manure flea in this country. In bankruptcy proceedings, those who have money are increasingly shielded, those who run bankruptcy procedures, these are bankruptcy managers, and they are less and less protected workers. Our proposal for a law goes in the direction of protecting these very people. In bankruptcy proceedings there are numerous cases of abuses of judicial error, in the case of Videm-Krška, the bankruptcy manager, after finding the court, took over EUR 140 000 too much in his pocket, this is what the court found. Elan – €180,000 was sent by the bankruptcy manager to his own company with which he entered into a contract. The link between bankruptcy managers and judges was demonstrated in June 2009, the case being examined by the court or the prosecution. So what do we propose in this law? In this law we propose an exclusive and only greater level of protection for those who have far least, and this is workers. In Article 87, we therefore propose that the creditor committee be able to look into the necessary bankruptcy documentation, which it cannot do today. We also say that we would facilitate the work of these people so that they can make decisions at written meetings. Very little. We are also trying to reimburse them for the basic costs they have in their work. In order to place bankruptcy managers on a slightly higher level, we anticipate one closure given by the bankruptcy manager to the judge before the proceedings begin. What I think is very important is the following. In the case of Elan, it was found that the bankruptcy manager had concluded a contract with himself or his own company and had put EUR 180 000 in his pocket. In the law we propose that bankruptcy managers cannot and must not cooperate with entities where they or their family members have a 5% share. It's totally natural. We further propose that the loser manager's award be awarded in accordance with his efforts to achieve the fastest, most efficient and best possible procedure, in line with the results achieved. I think that's natural. We also anticipate that, in the event of irregularities and infringements of procedures, we do not have the principle of 'the crows do not rule out the eyes', which means they cannot judge themselves. Today’s situation is such that bankruptcy administrators themselves set up commissions and then judge themselves and never judge anything. We therefore assume that such a disciplinary commission in which they can participate should not, however, lead these procedures alone, so that this disciplinary commission is determined by the Minister and is acting in accordance with the principle laid down in the law. And in the end, the last time I met people from Glass Nova, they said to me, "We don't even have the money to file such a request." I gave them 200 euros out of my own pocket. We assume, however, that the Board of Trusts does not pay court fees. More below. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u3	Thank you very much. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for an introductory explanation of the opinion. Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, has the floor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u4	Dear Mr President, honourable Members and Members, welcome! The Group of Members and Members presented to the assembly a proposal for amendments to the Law on Financial Operations, Forced Cessation and Procedures for Insolvency of the so-called bankruptcy law. The contents of this novel are identical to the amendments tabled by the opposition at the time of the last amendment of this law in the middle of last year. The proposal touches on the powers and additional entitlements of the creditor committee, proposes the introduction of a promissory statement by the manager when taking office, complementing the arrangements for the submission and payment of services relating to bankruptcy proceedings and awards to the manager, the arrangements for the supervision of the work of managers solely by the Ministry and the abolition of the Chamber. The bill, as I have already said, repeats what this assembly has already discussed at the time of the adoption of the last novel on 27 May 2010. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia considers that some of the proposed solutions are already properly regulated under the applicable legislation, while others are inappropriate and unfounded. The government therefore opposes the bill and considers that the law is not suitable for further consideration. However, I am convinced that in the debate we will be able to discuss in more detail the individual solutions that the applicants are putting forward and which, according to our assessment, do not need to be re-regulated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u5	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u6	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Friends and colleagues, hello! Well, hello to the Secretary of State! The Group of Members and Members of the First-signed Jozet Tank submitted to the National Assembly for consideration the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Operations, Insolvency Procedures and Forced Cessation. The main content points of the proposal are: the competence and additional privileges of the creditor committee, the addition of the provision and payment of services relating to insolvency proceedings and awards to the manager, the arrangements for the supervision of the work of managers solely by the Ministry of Justice and the abolition of the Board of Governors. While we welcome the initiative of colleagues from the Slovenian Democratic Party and their concern for insolvency and forced business termination procedures at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. At the same time, we must point out that the coalition and the Government were aware of this problem, so they proposed the adoption of a new law on changes and additions to the Financial Business Act last year. insolvency and forced termination procedures adopted by the National Assembly last year. Most of the solutions discussed by colleagues from the biggest opposition party have already been implemented, while in some of their proposals we need to find that they are not the most practical and previously detrimental to creating order in this area. One of the solutions proposed by the opposition is the so-called regulation of the jurisdiction of the creditor committee. In doing so, we must point out that all these powers are clearly and undoubtedly regulated in the applicable law, so that there is no need to amend legislation in this area. The current regulation of supervision of the work of the managers and the existence of the Chamber of Governors of Slovenia is, in our opinion, also appropriate in the light of the amendment of the law of the previous year. While it is only the supervision of the Ministry of Justice over the work of managers that the current regime is much better under the principle of trust and good supervision, we believe. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the double supervision allowed last year by the adopted amendment of the law on a proposal from the Ministry of Justice is better. The administrators are thus subject to the supervision of the Chamber, as well as notaries and executives, and the Ministry of Justice is the one who supervises the Chamber and is able to manage the proceedings of the Chamber, reviews the reports of the Chamber on individual procedures for the supervision of the manager, assigns and implements other measures necessary to ensure that the Chamber carries out its responsibilities and tasks in accordance with the law. In the current legislation drawn up by the Ministry, it is also extremely important that the Governor perform his duties professionally and on the basis of the Ministry's permission, and therefore we do not think that a single oath in the proceedings is meaningful or unnecessary. The proposal by the Member of the Slovenian Democratic Party would make sense under the old regime before the amendment of the law when the court for the administrator could appoint anyone. From the professionalisation of this function, which is accessible to an individual only on the basis of a permit obtained by the Ministry of Justice at the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that such an oath does not have any added value, meaning additional bureaucracy of the procedures which we wish to avoid in accordance with the guidelines and priorities of this coalition. After all, we believe that form cannot possibly be more important than content. The proposal also provides that the award should be awarded to the manager in accordance with the management's efforts to pay the creditor better and in proportion to the results achieved in the process it carries out. In our view, the proposed supplement is pointless and unnecessary. The payment of creditors is typical only of insolvency proceedings, but not of the compulsory settlement process. Under the specific rule, which makes sense, it is consistently applied only to insolvency proceedings and is already provided for in Article 103, paragraph 3, of the current law, and part of the manager’s award is compensation for the liquidation of the bankruptcy mass and the distribution to the creditor, which is measured in proportion to the amount of the allocation. Since the proposed law does not bring any new added value and the issues it raises are already properly regulated in existing legislation, we will not support the proposal of the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajn.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u8	Your Honors are here! The Financial Operations Act in insolvency and forced termination procedures is given new and new additions and amendments. In fact, these supplements also follow one basic objective, strengthen the interest of creditors and their role and make it possible to take greater account of the interests of those affected, so I will also support this amendment law. During the discussion, my colleagues will examine the matter thoroughly and will eventually decide on the vote. Otherwise, I believe that this novel has many elements that will enable even better status of creditors. In fact, they also caused this marriage. Look at just one segment. The transfer of jurisdiction to the chamber from the minister, as it has been so far. The provisions on disciplinary responsibility of managers and the sanctioning of managers are necessary, but the delegation of powers relating to the sanctioning of managers from the Ministry of Justice to the Chamber is unfounded and rather risky and therefore a renewed consideration is needed. Such associations — chambers — have in several cases proved to be closed organisations that primarily protect their interests, protect the interests of their members and not sanction them, but conceal their mistakes. In the case of managers, such fear is even more justified because it is a small number of people who know each other, cooperate and support each other in matters. I think that's just one argument that could have arranged these things differently. A series of other articles, as I said before, strengthens the role of managers, and that is finally the purpose of the law, so I will support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Bogdan Čepič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Nice greetings to the Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The Social Democrats' Group of Members of the Draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Financial Action Act, the insolvency and forced termination procedures proposed by the Group of Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, will not support further consideration. The basic law, which is intended to regulate the extremely sensitive area of financial transactions of business entities, especially when the entity becomes insolvent or finds itself prior to a forced settlement or bankruptcy, cannot be resolved or supplemented in an easy way to increase the jurisdiction of the board of creditors, we must provide the manager with a statement that he will perform his work conscientiously and responsibly, as it is not his duty, or that the supervision of the legality and responsibility of the manager of the compulsory settlement or bankruptcy is transferred from a residential organisation, such as the Board of Directors, to the Ministry of Justice, which is an administrative or state authority and has completely different powers. In the Group of Social Democrats, we estimate that the effectiveness and operationality of the law cannot be achieved by means of such simplified solutions, which, by the way, are largely already covered by the existing law, only the law needs to be read carefully. Once we have carefully read the drafter's assessment of the situation and the reasons for the adoption of the law, we can no doubt agree with the assessment that, during the economic period, financial discipline would be increased and that this is now one of the main problems of the Slovenian economy. However, the number of forced settlements and bankruptcys has also increased to a large extent. The proposer also assesses the changes to the Financial Business Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures, which have been somewhat different over the past two years, only from their point of view and does not want to admit that in many areas the situation of creditors – and for these in the course of forced settlement or bankruptcy in fact – has improved, and that the anomaly and errors that have crept in to the legislature and the bill-maker since the adoption of the current law in 2007. At that time there was no period of forced settlement and bankruptcy and inconsistencies were less noticeable. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are thinking that the law will have to be amended and amended in the area of forced settlement and bankruptcy in particular in order to avoid cases of forced settlement or bankruptcy still being misused in the direction of protecting the debtor's assets and not the creditor, not by the fault of the managers of forced settlement or bankruptcy, but by the ingenuity of the owners of companies and successful lawyers who find ways to circumvent the law. Above all, in insolvency law, we need to find ways to ensure that forced settlement takes place only where it makes sense and that the company really has the opportunity to continue production or to provide services. However, the trustees will be paid at least enough to offset all the actual costs they have incurred. However, bankruptcys must end much faster than this practice now, and creditors must play a more important role in the possible continuation of the business of an economic entity in bankruptcy. Cases currently taking place in the context of forced settlement or bankruptcy, particularly in the construction sector, where creditors are damaged at the expense of the establishment of new companies of the same owners that have led to forced settlement or bankruptcy, it is necessary to examine and amend legislation in such a way that such acts are disabled and all those who wish to circumvent the legislation and to play creditors are punished. The owners must be aware that when they brought the company into a forced settlement or bankruptcy, they lost their own in this activity. They were not successful, and the result is that they lost all their assets. New owners of such assets become creditors. Although this is somewhat simplistic, the solution will have to be sought in this direction. We need to re-examine the procedures for forced settlement and bankruptcy when preparing the measures for recovery from the financial and economic crisis and also to link them to other areas and legislation and seek comprehensive solutions, which must be simple and effective. However, the amendment proposed by the Group of Members does not follow these objectives, but renews the proposals already drafted at the time of the amendment of the law in May 2010, where the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice has already rejected them sufficiently. Even then and now, we find that the Board of Auditors has sufficient powers to work successfully, to be properly regulated in the Chamber of Governors and is comparable to similar associations and supervision by the Ministry of Justice. The manager's oath is meaningless and will not improve the work or position of the manager in any way, and the limitations on the provision of individual services for bankruptcy are properly regulated in the applicable legislation, but must be taken into account. We expect the Government to come up with proposals when it is preparing comprehensive measures to come out of the crisis also in the area of the resolution of insolvency and the procedures involved. The Social Democrats' Group will not support further consideration of these proposals, but together with the Ministry and all stakeholders wishing to find appropriate solutions will cooperate constructively and seek additional systemic solutions that will help complement insolvency legislation in the direction of protecting creditors and prevent business owners from exploiting the law in their own good and protecting property that they have actually lost when they have led the company into forced preparation or bankruptcy with their leadership and influence. Forced settlement or bankruptcy must become a punishment for owners, not a reward to get rid of debts and start a new one without obligation, and for creditors you care little.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Miro Petek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u12	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues! Our Group will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination, as it was created in our kind and we have also submitted it to the legislative process. In this way, we want to help the ruling coalition, which announced that it would start working some 10 days ago. Due to their gradual application to new workloads, we have written this urgent and useful legislation in our parliamentary group and submitted it to Parliament. Remember, the May 2009 amendment of this law provided for lower tariffs for bankruptcy managers who, until then, had paid their own prizes of any kind. However, in the very implementation of the urgent novelty of the law, there has been a sense of shame or error, whether conscious or not, which has also resulted in certain damage. In the meantime, between the adoption of the law and the adoption of the relevant regulation, bankruptcy managers awarded enormously high awards for both forward and backward, of course with considerable assistance from Slovenian courts. We would have believed in negligence or error if the Government had not already given large concessions to lawyers and judges, the first in the form of legal tariffs, the second in the form of high wages, and reduced access to notaries, thereby reducing the number of notaries in Slovenia, which meant the restoration of the monopoly. This part of the legal or judicial elite [[Among bankruptcy managers, however, the majority of lawyers are]] This government is extremely fond of you. The change of this law is made in the light of the fact that it protects creditors more. The appellant must be protected as far as possible when insolvency occurs and as a result of the termination of a legal person. However, it can be protected if we ensure the best possible conditions for their payment, the swift procedure and equal treatment of all creditors. One of the essential components of good legislation must be the protection of the interests of creditors who, due to bankruptcy or forcible settlement, are largely damaged and, in the event of various frauds and protections of debtors, can ultimately lose everything. In this light, it is still worth recalling the very fresh case of Mercury, since, with the arrogance of the coerced managers, some 10 employees of Mercury and Mersteel did not receive discharges until we adopted in the National Assembly the authentic interpretations of paragraph 3 of paragraph 1 of Article 21 of the Law on Financial Operations and Procedures for Insolvency and Forced Cessation. At the same time, the legal and legal service ensured that the existing law allowed for the payment of discharges as a priority claim, but the coerced managers simply resisted it. The workers received their resignations only after the adoption of the authentic explanation. As regards the speed of the procedure, it has been known in the past that individuals had multiple bankruptcys at the same time. These bankruptcys have taken years and years, and they have lived very well. They had no interest in ending bankruptcy as soon as possible. It was also the fault of individual courts, which in their own environment, extended individual bankruptcy managers in their regions, usually lawyers involved in a wide variety of networks that had many bankruptcys, while other bankruptcyists with appropriate licenses had little or nothing. The law also proposes that the area of disciplinary responsibility of managers and sanctions be transferred from the Chamber of Governors to the Ministry of Justice. We do not have good experience with various Czech associations in Slovenia. Only rare associations or chambers are able to identify violations of the Code in their members, although some are not only in breach of the Code, but also in violation of legislation. Even more rare are those associations that exclude or initiate a procedure for the withdrawal of a licence. A chamber that counts a few hundred members, if you go on a trip, there are only two buses and everyone knows each other well, will simply not be able to control their members properly. Errors will try to hide or hide, as in Slovenia this is already quite mass. In this way, the public will lose confidence in the Chamber itself, the institution of the bankruptcy manager. The Justice Ministry, with an appropriate disciplinary commission, as we propose, would certainly lead these procedures better, and therefore legal change is also necessary in this direction. In the SDS Group, we believe that we must do our utmost in the National Assembly to restrict legislation considerably – we are aware that this will not be prevented entirely – irreconcilable, arbitrary and slow business of bankruptcy managers. Secondly, by means of law, we must achieve maximum protection for creditors who are at least twice weak and affected by bankruptcy. As a result of the bankruptcy debtor, they may also be in difficulty and, due to a potentially poor bankruptcy manager, they may lose the little that they should receive after bankruptcy or forcible settlement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u14	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members and Members of the First-signed Jozet Tank submitted to the National Assembly for consideration the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on Financial Operations, Insolvency Procedures and Forced Cessation. According to the content, it is one of those laws that, given the economic situation, the circumstances, the event and the affair, cannot be missed in the present and the reverberation. What are his solutions? Similar or similar proposals were made by the same proposer six months ago. The Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice then rejected them. This proposal focuses on the competence and additional entitlement of the creditor committee to a separate statement by managers, the takeover of duties and the addition of the arrangements for the provision and payment of services relating to insolvency proceedings and the remuneration of managers and the arrangements for the supervision of the work of managers. Of course, it is not possible to oppose proposals aimed at limiting the provision of individual services for the purposes of bankruptcy proceedings, especially if it turns out that the private interests of individuals are dominant in the background. However, the answer is, of course, already in application of existing rules and in the law on integrity and prevention of corruption, and of course within the limits imposed on the administrator by the court and the creditor committee under the applicable law. There is also no indication that the problems related to the Financial Operations Act will disappear from the agenda as the issue of payment discipline can and is urgently addressed by a combination of measures containing the protection of subcontractors, the application of appropriate fiscal measures, the implementation of the Late Payment Prevention Directive, as well as the amendment of the Public Procurement Act and the VAT Law with regard to the enforcement of deductible VAT, so that I do not mention other conditions for the operation of undertakings. The Zares Group – a new policy also because it respects the opinion of the Council of Justice on the proposal for a law – will not support the proposal. He doesn't think it's necessary and isn't suitable for further consideration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u15	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Colleagues and colleagues! Days 1. Ten. 2008 entered into force a new law on financial transactions, insolvency and forced termination procedures, which has been revised three times in its short history. At the end of June last year, when certain measures were taken to increase the efficiency of procedures and a Chamber of Managers and disciplinary responsibility of managers was introduced. We agree with the proposaler that the provisions on disciplinary responsibility of managers and sanctioning managers are necessary, but the delegation of powers concerning the sanctioning of managers from the Ministry of Justice to the Chamber of Governors is unreasonable and rather risky, so a renewed consideration is needed as we all know the familiar Slovenian river, "the crow does not exclude the eyes". Such associations have in several cases proved to be closed organisations protecting the interests of their members and not sanctioning them, but covering their errors in one way or another. It would therefore be more appropriate and more appropriate for the powers to sanction managers to remain fully within the domain of the competent justice ministry or the competent disciplinary commission within the Ministry of Justice. Certainly such associations in themselves because of the principle of action, which I will not tell them, incorporated into their very essence, cannot show great trust. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we support the proposaler's intention to introduce a more transparent and responsible policy in the area of bankruptcy procedures, particularly for the benefit of no guilty creditors. We will certainly support the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Franc Jurša.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u18	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Nice greetings to everyone in the hall! Members of the National Assembly, with extensive changes and additions to the basic law, which is also proposed now, have already been decided at the 18th regular meeting. At that time, we have considered and adopted a number of solutions that make a significant contribution to the speedy completion of these procedures, with a view to protecting the priority rights of all creditors and of course the debtor. The improvement in the position of creditors, i.e. those to whom insolvency proceedings are actually intended, was crucial that we also supported the amendment at that time. The extraordinary amounts paid by the bankruptcy managers were also limited by the novelty to a greater professionalization and professional competence of managers and to a clear definition of which services are included in the manager's award. Numerous amendments were tabled on this novel, both by the coalition and by the opposition. With regard to those amendments which were not supported at the final stage, detailed and reasoned reasons for rejecting them were provided. We now have practically a proposed amendment to those articles whose amendments have not been adopted in the last novel. The Members of our Group will not go into the content itself at this point, but we will only confirm the views that have been expressed at that time and even today, or are presented in more detail in the Government's opinion on this proposal. It follows from our conclusion that we do not intend to support the bill currently under consideration in our parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u19	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Bogdan Barovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u20	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Representatives of the Ministry, colleagues, colleagues! It is logical that the responsibility of this high assembly, the legislative branch of power, should be to draw up new legislation or to correct the old when it finds that something is wrong. And this logic has certainly led the drafters of this bill, which we are talking about, to the law on changes and additions to the Financial Business Act, the procedures for insolvency and forcible termination. What else should we think, or what evidence, would this high congregation still want this law to be right for today’s consideration if not for what is happening? Elan. The bankruptcy procedure lasted for years, years, years and years and years. I'm not going to list any other companies. The bankruptcy proceedings continue indefinitely, the bankruptcy managers are paid after the bankruptcy procedure, not after efficiency. Effectiveness, however, means that the bankruptcy procedure must be swift and that as many creditors as possible must be paid. Is that a fact or not? Yes, it is. Second fact. Who is basically the biggest creditor to bring the shortest end? People, workers in these companies. Everyone else is paid, everyone who has five minutes of time, and everyone who writes one or two poems, all co-workers, all boards of creditors, all such or other bodies, is paid something out of bankruptcy, the workers who are the biggest creditors, because they have created what they have already created, and the last payment is paid if they are paid. Who in this high congregation can prove to me that this is not the reality of today? Who in the National Assembly hopes to say publicly that the issue of payment non-discipline is not a problem in this country? Who hopes to say that it is not true that payment non-discipline is the biggest problem, that more and more companies are being financed by failing to settle their obligations to suppliers, employees and states with huge delays? Who hopes in this high choir that this chain of non-payments, large delays in the final stage, is no reason for a large company to fail due to liquidity problems? And who hopes to claim that not only a company, two, three, five, ten, is failing the economy and this country is failing because of such failures? These are facts that you can't close your eyes to. It's not the last thing people feel on their skin. Maybe even we'll feel it on our skin sometime, and all of us, I don't want it. The fact is that procedures for insolvency and forcible termination must be conducted solely in the interest of creditors, and it would therefore be useful, as proposed by this law, for creditors as parties to the procedure or indirectly as an official body of the procedure, to have the opportunity to comply with their requirements in the shortest possible time and in the most fair manner. And if we just look at some of the articles of the proposed law in concrete terms. What is wrong with Article 2 requiring the speed of the procedure? It requires that the process proceed quickly and without undue delay, which is a proven practice today. What is wrong with this article that is recorded in this law in order not to accept it? What is wrong with Article 3 which does not allow the members of the Management Board to operate, I say at present, the use of insolvency funds for the execution of emergency tasks, the current arrangements discourage creditors and this article eliminates this. What's wrong with this article? What is wrong with Article 4, which speaks again of the speed of the procedure? The proposer shall, in this Article, require that the procedure be carried out expeditiously, without undue delay. What is wrong with Article 5 – the award of managers so far is based on some parameters that are not consistent with the manager's efforts to pay creditors better and to complete the procedure more quickly. And what is finally wrong is that this law leads towards giving more responsibility and trust to the competent ministry, the Ministry of Justice. What's wrong with that? Because we do not trust and cannot trust some narrow groups, associations of individuals who are connected and then coordinate their interests. A trustee, X, Y, Z, and they care about workers in this company who are in bankruptcy, but they connect and settle matters in such a way that they have the opportunity to pay first for their work in the same relationship and to get the money that the bankruptcy firm owes them and they care about the workers. And this allows the law so far, and this proposal changes and gives the authority and right to someone who is obliged to do so: the Ministry of Justice, the devil. And then the vehement National Assembly in the majority apparently rejects such a proposal. So, if this bill is rejected, you want bankruptcy proceedings to take place for a long time, that is the last one to get out of bankruptcy proceedings anything, a worker who has actually created income, and you want to be doing business and doing work by various committees, creditors, etc. intransparency, and that no one has control over it. And you obviously want the Justice Department to do the most urgent thing, and the rest is "you write me uh." The Ministry responsible for this should be watching over this. And the bankruptcy manager must be paid well when the bankruptcy process is completed quickly and when the most creditors are paid. This is a criterion, not that it lasts twenty years and receives 600 000 euros. Great, I would work as a bankruptcy manager for 20 years for 600 000 euros. And save it, huh? You can get this answer from workers who worked in Slovenian Elan 20 years ago, who was then not Slovenian Elan. I'm just giving you an example. And thank God it's at least Slovenian, Elan, that something made of it. But 20 years, 600,000 or how many euros. That's not a criterion. It measured the speed and height of the creditors' payments. The quicker the procedure, the more creditors will be paid, the more rewarded the one who leads. And this bill offers only this and nothing else. That's all! It improves, offers a solution – honest and honest. There may be some other content that needs to be corrected, but I think it's right for us to fix it, 90 of us, who are here to say, yes, the direction is right, the solution is better than existing, but this and this are still to be fixed. However, it is not up to priors to reject because bankruptcy proceedings will then take place as before: years and years and years, however, bankruptcy managers will be paid according to the amount of time they will work. If they're 30 years old, they'll get $90,000. Fine. I don't know who would actually read this bill, even in the light of the experience we all have, we all have potential friends and acquaintances who have been or are employed in companies that have gone bankrupt and are insolvent. These are our friends with whom we have compassion and would like to help them and would like to be, even if those people were us first to settle our debts, us, because they owe us contributions that they didn't pay us, they owe us loans for loans that employers didn't pay us and they took them away from our salary. And they owe us all that, workers, I tell us, I identify that I am a worker of one such company, they owe us first, and then they owe us to bankruptcy managers, bankruptcy commissions, and I don't know who else, and, of course, to those who supplied the material, and to those who participated in the manufacturing process. It's like this all over the world, except for us, because everyone else gets paid first, except the one who actually created this company. I think that this high assembly must have so much moral conscience that at least it says, yes, such a law is necessary, it is necessary to settle this issue. Otherwise, if it goes as far as it goes, the law as it does, and the law as it does, will no longer be needed, because there will be no more companies that could even go bankrupt. We support this law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Dr. Vinko Gorenak, who is the proposer, spoke first.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u22	Thank you very much again, Mr. President. I know how to brag, and I know how to play. You know, I thank you for waiting for me earlier, but at the same time, I find that the Government has 45 minutes, those who challenge some of the labour rights, and I have 30 minutes at my disposal as a candidate. It's just a finding. Thank you very much Slovenian National Party, thank you very much Slovenian People's Party, you have announced support. What can I say, because in some ways it is expected that there is no support from the SD, including some others, because where there is a concrete ideology of the past, there is no neglect, where there is no need to take care of the rights of people who do not really have anything to give in a pot that they do not even have for bread and where we know how to hit them. I was also surprised by DeSUS's position, which says he will not support this marriage, so I will take the matter back very quickly. Ladies and gentlemen, this is about the people who lost their jobs. This is not about pensioners who, however, have up to 500 euros in pensions, it is not about them, they have at least 500 euros. This is about people who have nothing. Even six, seven, eight months worked, went to work, and they didn't get paid. Now that they lose their jobs and have nothing to eat, they become creditors. That's what we're talking about. We're talking about these people, so at least I expect DeSUS to understand and support them. I would also expect a party that has a social note in its client's address, i.e. from SD, but there I lost hope. What exactly do we suggest? Once again very quickly, there will be no mistake. I'll make it easy for people to understand me. The workers who worked are also creditors. These today do not have the right to look into the documentation, they have no right to see and prove how much they have worked and how much they have lost, and by law we give them at least this right. How can you not support this? I don't understand. These workers or their representatives as a board of directors must meet today at such and different meetings, and tomorrow, if you would support this law, you would also have the right to meet at written meetings. Look what we even gave them: travel costs. They would be given travel expenses so that they could get out of Rogaška Slatina because they lost their job, bring them to Celje and have a meeting there. We gave them a hell of a lot, didn't we?Oh, my God! A sworn oath. What does it cost us if the bankruptcy manager says, "I solemnly swear to do what is right"? What's bothering you? I have already said, Mr Marinc – Elan, a long-standing bankruptcy manager, has concluded a contract with the company to which he co-owners, and in a few years he has put €180,000 in his pockets. We're proposing – what? That bankruptcy managers cannot conclude such contracts with themselves or with business relatives where they have a 5% or more share. It would be a sin to support it. That the award to the bankruptcy manager is related to his work. What would be wrong with that? What would be wrong with that? Nothing! Disciplinary responsibility – in this country, it is clear that cartels that have chambers and lawyers don't know who else, and also bankruptcy administrators belong to themselves in disciplinary proceedings. It's not working! And may it be decided, for God's sake, by an independent commission, also composed of judges to be appointed by our proposal by the Minister of Justice. One more thing. 11.1.2011 – Clause or whatever it was. And on the clause is one of the conclusions: "Insolvency law does not produce the relevant results, ministers have found." So that's what the ministers found. And Mr Gaspari says, "We will change this legislation." We're talking about bankruptcy procedures, not this insolvency, blah, blah, blah. Let's say "insolvent procedure." [[...]] Here, fourteen days later, the Ministry of Justice does not see the need to remedy insolvency laws due to the rights of small creditors. A statement that I will really put in my frame and will go into the history of this country. Mr Gaspari and the Government therefore see the need to amend insolvency law, in which way they do not say. But immediately after that, the Ministry of Justice says it sees no need to change with small creditors. Yeah, at the worker's! The one who has 500 euros! No, he doesn't have 500 euros, he doesn't have anything! There's no bread! But the Minister doesn't see the need for change. That's terrible! That's terrible! Look ahead. The Minister of Justice says that in the case of SCT, there is nothing he can do. What's on SCT? Forced settlement, bankruptcy, depending on where and how. But Mr. Baron, they did build a new company in Austria, as we heard last night. In some other countries, bankruptcy means, at the same time, a life or at least a 10-year ban on the establishment of companies. What did Mr. SCT do, Mr. Zidar? He sent those thousands and so many workers on the road, denied them the right to go back in order to get paid. You can fight for your rights, at your expense of course Where can you fight? As part of a bankruptcy mass, where there's no such thing, nothing will happen, because he's transferred it all to new companies. But when they go bankrupt, he'll start new ones. This is like political parties – the LDS then becomes Really, and tomorrow the Green Straw, as I said somewhere. But "face" is the same. It's the same thing as Zidar's. Look, the minister says, "I can't do anything in SCT." I'll get to the bottom of this later. Mr Secretary of State, let him learn if there is anything written in the existing law, and remind him of paragraph 42 and paragraph 43 and paragraph 44. Remind him to do something. Indemnity liability of the management. Indemnity liability of the members of the Supervisory Board. Limitation, exclusion and enforcement of compensation liability. I'll explain them in detail later, but I don't want to teach you this matter, because you can read the law as well as I can. In my opinion, however, the Council of Justice is on the same side, so the Council of Justice does not see the need to protect small shareholders and employees, creditors. Yeah, it's clear! Why is that? The Ministry sees no need, no need to protect small creditors and probably thinks of protecting large creditors. Members, with the exception of two parliamentary groups, reject the law. There are so few of us in the hall. But once again, I'm going to say to you today: whatever you reject the law, I'm going to give you the initiative to file it again for the same minute. And criticise any way you like, the point is that our judges, these are people, including those under 500 euros, are writing a judgment to be passed in 2012 in the elections. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The word is Guido Kres. [[He's not here.]] Get Andrei Magaina ready. Matjaž Zanoškar, please
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u24	Thank you, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Although DeSUS’s position has already been expressed, I would add my thoughts and feelings to it. It is true that the clause carried out in the Government was true that this clause also served with some strategic direction of the government's work for the future. Among these guidelines was also the point under which payment discipline was dealt with, and if we indirectly take this bill, which we have today on the agenda, it is that grey which also concerns payment discipline. Personally, I think that the group of Members applying this law has touched on one very problematic, very difficult topic to deal with. And I personally think it is right that this bill is being considered and certainly I am changing to say more about it. I don't know what the fate of the law will be, whether it will be adopted or not, but it's going in the right direction. Unfortunately today we are dealing with many bankruptcys in our Slovenia and the victims of all these bankruptcys are usually creditors, workers. And if this law goes in the direction of protecting creditors and protecting workers, then I am the first to adopt such a law. I do not argue that existing legislation does not have mechanisms to protect workers and creditors. I'm not saying that all standards and regulations are set for bankruptcy managers, but what's going on is another thing. Today, we hear here in this hall, and even in the field, we see that there is a great dissatisfaction of creditors. I come from an environment where there's a lot of bankruptcy right now. After all these bankruptcys, which will be carried out after a long-term procedure, they will remain satisfied – I don't know who? They're not gonna be workers, they're not gonna be creditors, they're probably just gonna be happy with bankruptcy managers. Unscrupulously enormous amounts were shared for their prizes and for their expenses incurred in these bankruptcys. At the time when bankruptcy was still a long way to go, bankruptcy did not end, it dragged on indefinitely. Finally, they were left unpaid creditors and unpaid workers. And that's what it is, and that's the reason I mean when this law is being considered. It is necessary either to adopt this law or to increase discipline and control over all these bankruptcys so that what is happening does not happen. And one thing, it's probably everyone's interest that bankruptcy ends quickly and that it doesn't create some bypass company through which the rest of the bankruptcy mass can be channelled, and that somehow it's re-analysed to where it doesn't need to be. I absolutely support at least the debate and the orientations of this bill, which is proposed.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The Secretary of State Boštjan Škrlec also made a statement and then Andrei Magajna. Please, Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr. President. There are a lot of perceptions of bankruptcy procedures and it is understandable that the voice that warns about bankruptcy is loud, given the situation in which the economy is located when bankruptcy procedures are large. And in bankruptcy proceedings, usually those involved are not satisfied with this because it means that the business of the one who went bankrupt was such that he could not pay his obligations. The logical consequence is that those who are creditors are not content with what they take away or manage to get out of it. However, let me identify myself to what is on the agenda today and to the solutions that already exist in the current legislation. There's been a lot of talk about some bankruptcy events even being dealt with by the state's attorneys. It's true. They're busy. But that doesn't mean the marriage is bad. If the matter is dealt with by the State Prosecutor's Office, it means that someone has infringed the law, in contravention of what the law says is so serious that they even represent signs of a crime. Infringements to the detriment of creditors, unequal treatment of creditors, damage to creditors, false bankruptcy, these are all crimes under our legislation. The competent institutions shall, of course, have the task of identifying it and of proving, if any, such infringements in judicial proceedings and that the perpetrators bear criminal liability. As for another kind of responsibility, the disciplinary responsibilities of bankruptcy managers, many critics fly to bankruptcy managers. They're talking about long bankruptcy procedures, enormous rewards that they've been paying each other. It's true, we've talked about this a lot, there's no denying it. The bankruptcy of Elan lasted a very long time. Another bankruptcy procedure took a very long time, but these bankruptcy procedures were not guided by the current legislation. Current legislation has time limits where the former did not have them. This is also the reason why bankruptcys sometimes lasted longer. These bankruptcy managers have also paid very large rewards. The question is whether the prize is in that amount, and for a job that has lasted for many years, even more than 10 years, is too great. It must be said, however, that the system of awarding under the previous law was completely different. It was not linked to success in the bankruptcy process to such an extent and even introduced the possibility of some advances, i.e. advance payments. It's all been over for a while. The current legislation of the deposit does not provide that if any court applies the law wrongly - please, I hope that we understand that there is no need to correct the law if the court finds that a judge has applied the law wrongly in a particular case. Otherwise, I would like to repeat again what I have already said several times, because the story of enormously high awards, which was allowed by legislation due to the first amendment of the law in early 2009. It's a delusion. The awards were notified at the time, they were awarded at the first stage, and in the appeals proceedings resulting from the Ministry's activities, these awards were drastically reduced. And the statistics I have already shown on several occasions show that in no way have they deviated from the prizes that have been paid in previous periods. On the contrary, they were significantly lower because the system of complaint and the system of judicial control began to work because creditors began to complain about the award. And the information that we have repeatedly presented in the National Assembly clearly shows that the problem and demonization of these awards is a truly misleading act, which is repeated over and over and over and over and over and over and over and over again, proving how the bankruptcy administrators of a group of people who cannot be trusted. During the term of office of this government and this National Assembly, the amendment of the Law was adopted last summer. And this novel introduced the disciplinary responsibility of bankruptcy managers. She introduced disciplinary responsibility, but it wasn't there before. It's not just that. We have also introduced a body that identifies this disciplinary responsibility. The phrase "the crows don't turn off their eyes" is repeated over and over again, and this is a kind of chilling potion that is supposed to indicate that the bankruptcy administrators in the chamber are not really going to persecute their own members. No, they won't. The Commissions, which identify disciplinary responsibility, are mostly made up of judges. And let it be clear that we will not give the wrong message to the public, the disciplinary commissions that identify disciplinary responsibility are mostly external and the bankruptcy administrators do not have a majority. Most of them have judges. And they judge disciplinary responsibilities. And disciplinary responsibility is laid down in the law and the composition of the disciplinary commission is laid down in the law. Therefore, with purely cheap populism, if we abolish the chamber, give authority to the ministry, in fact, it is nothing more than a statement of something that is not the basis. The sanctions imposed by this disciplinary commission are very severe. There was a speech that the bankruptcy manager who violates the rights of creditors should no longer carry out his activities. That's exactly the sanction. The permanent prohibition of acting as a bankruptcy manager is the sanction imposed by the Disciplinary Commission. But if we give up the Chamber of Fugitive Managers, it must be said that this means something else. The Chamber was originally established for the purpose or primary purpose of improving the quality of the work of insolvency managers. The bankruptcy managers themselves have expressed the desire to have more permanent and better quality training. They themselves want a higher quality of their work. And the primary task of the chamber is to detect good practices, to get them into a code and to maintain good practices and to improve the quality of the work of bankruptcy managers. If we want to give up on this — is this the wish of the novel’s proposal? The abolition of the chamber means that bankruptcy managers will be left to themselves again and that no one will care about their quality. The Chamber is concerned about their quality today. It's a new institute that's only been in place for six months. Of course there's no miraculous results overnight, they can't be. And the marriage is relatively new. The law has only been in force since 2008 and the latest novels in 2009. Therefore, generally generalizing and drawing on old bankruptcy procedures from the 1990s and in their case proving everything wrong today is really not appropriate. There was a lot of talk about the rate of bankruptcy. And also in this connection are mentioned old bankruptcy procedures: Elan, Videm, which lasted more than 10 years. Once again, the new bankruptcy law did not regulate these procedures because there was another legislation in force at the time. This bankruptcy law has very clearly defined time limits for each phase of the bankruptcy procedure. And there's something else you need to say. It is not true that creditors would not get anything if the bankruptcy procedure lasted two years to obtain nothing by the end because the bankruptcy manager may challenge some legal action because he wants to achieve a greater bankruptcy mass. Divisions are also taking place during this period. Sometimes even major divisions and the remainder are divided when this mass is fully determined on the basis of challenging actions. Speaking of challenging lawsuits, I can't get past the anomaly or the opposition that we keep listening to. On the one hand, we are talking about how to make the procedure as quickly as possible and as quickly as possible and, on the other hand, to pay the creditors to the greatest extent possible. Of course, we all want to, but quickly and best of all is not going together because the bankruptcy manager has to figure out what belongs to bankruptcy. Yeah, I'm probably gonna get my perceptive eye on something that can be cashed out and let the legal challenge go. But the case of SCT, which was mentioned earlier, is precisely what debtors who drive against bankruptcy often do in their business when they realize that the inevitable end is coming, they try to favour some creditors, give them payments, and others do not. The task of the bankruptcy manager is to challenge and challenge such acts a long time ago, all with the aim of increasing the bankruptcy mass, because this essentially means that the establishment of the company will be annulled and the funds that went towards the establishment of this company will fall into bankruptcy and will be distributed among creditors. This can take a long time. It's true, I don't know if it takes 20 years, but it can take a long time, because those who did it are cleverly benefiting from legal remedies to prove that everything is okay. But here you can't cut rough with a knife cut and just define what belongs and what doesn't belong in a bankruptcy mass. We can't just keep reading the bankruptcy manager forward if he's trying to increase the bankruptcy weight. As I've already said, there's no sharing at this time. What is defined can be shared. It is a matter of speed that the novel brings a new commandment that bankruptcy procedures should be conducted quickly so that it cannot be delayed and similar. That sounds good, but it's already written in bankruptcy law, the basic principle of bankruptcy law is the speed of procedure. I am sure that intentions are good, but I am also sure that we can write three more times into the law, that it is necessary quickly, and therefore they will not be faster. In the introductory presentations, there was a lot of talk about how this government likes to share concessions with certain interest groups that need to be seen in advance, at least doubtfully, if they are not quite hated by themselves. In this way, they are intended to grant concessions to lawyers in the form of tariffs. I don't know, Members. I don't know where you got this information. The legal rate applicable was adopted in the previous term and is still valid. It's true that lawyers want to have a different, higher, but this government won't let her, this minister won't let her. So please, let's not repeat a stereotyped claim that obviously doesn't hold. The judges' concessions were also discussed. Yes, this government, this National Assembly, has settled the issue of paying judges in such a way that this is now in line with the Constitution, as the Constitutional Court confirmed when it rejected the referendum on this subject. It used to be unconstitutional. I don't want to drag these things out, but please, because they're exposed, I think it's only necessary to say that things aren't what they appear to be. The Trust Committee, which, in the proposal, is quite prominent as an instrument by which creditors exercise their rights, which it holds, has an important place in the current legislation. The Trust Committee means that creditors, usually a larger crowd, establish a single group of their representatives representing their interests and composed of certain creditors. Not all creditors are members of the creditors' board, but they are part of it, this is an important information because we risk giving the creditor's committee more rights than it needs to be. Why are we risking it? Since creditors are not just workers, creditors are an economic society, many times, and they are usually more. And these companies are usually competitive with each other. Of course, when some are on a board of creditors and others are not on a board of creditors, those on a board of creditors may obtain certain information that others cannot. If we allow unlimited access to the bankruptcy debtor's documentation to the creditor's committee – unrestricted access means looking at data that has no connection with the bankruptcy process, looking at data that are business secrets relating to any patents, looking at data relating to the business relations of this entity that have no connection with the bankruptcy process – we are, of course, risk giving these creditors a position that will be a comparative advantage on the market for them and creating a new imbalance in the market. That's probably not what we want. There's another danger. The creditors found in the bankruptcy process are very diverse. Some are companies dealing with sales, transport, others are independent entrepreneurs laying tiles, I don't know, I'm imagining, a whole bunch of workers from this company are creditors. All these creditors are now in some bankruptcy process in which they have to exercise their rights in a rather formal way. All these creditors are of course interested in getting some money as soon as possible, which is clear, normal, so they are on the market. What is the risk if we allow the creditor committee what is discussed in the proposal today? There's a risk in that, too. The risk is that some creditors closer to them than others can be redeemed for the marginal costs of the claim of others – for marginal prices, because others will be happy to take 3%, only to get something today, rather today 3 than tomorrow 10. And then these creditors, who are on the board of creditors, at the cost of bankruptcy, what the proponents want, will push the procedure to make them earn. This is happening. I hear things like this are already happening. That's why I think it's important to be careful. The Trust Committee already has a lot of powers today. They may be held in any place which they shall assess as being most favourable for the convening of a meeting of the creditor committee. Maybe they're correspondence sessions. They shall have access to the documentation necessary to carry out the bankruptcy procedure. So he doesn't hold that they're in a worse position. There was a lot of talk about people who had nothing. They're bankruptcy debtors, and the state doesn't care about the workers who lost their jobs and stayed on the road. Don't hold it. Doesn't mean the state doesn't care about those workers who stayed on the road for bankruptcy. The last novel of the bankruptcy law, novel B, was designed to deal with situations exactly such as this, so that it would not have occurred in the past, when companies were operating for months and months, that people went to work for months and months and got nothing paid. He grew only the debt of their employer to them and in bankruptcy proceedings then they could not get any benefit from what they were entitled to receive. Novela B has enacted an irrefutable assumption of insolvency if three months are not paid contributions or wages, and this does not mean three months in a row, but at any time. Then it's over and the company can no longer pull. And one more thing. Salary claims are priority claims. It is not true that this is to be paid in the end if anything remains as we have heard many times today. That's not true, it's paid first. A country which had previously had a status of preferential claims for outstanding tax claims has waived this status in this same novelty. And these state claims are no longer a priority so that workers can get paid in front of the country. We are here, I hope, during the escape of the world. It is not clear to me that the State would waive its priority claims in bankruptcy proceedings to any extent. We have already talked a lot about the giving of the work managed by the bankruptcy manager, family members and other connected persons, in the form of a certain espionage or our own company. Of course, that is not right, it must be made clear. The law that was amended by the last amendment, this same bankruptcy law, introduced some novelty in this area. He made it clear that for those works that the bankruptcy manager must do as a bankruptcy manager, he must not pay someone else or, if he pays it, he must pay for his own reward, which means at his own expense. As a result, the costs of the procedure must not be higher and of course not be higher. The Integrity Act, mentioned by a representative of one of the parliamentary groups, is of course an important innovation in this area. This law governs conflicts of interest. And bankruptcy managers are officials by the definition of law. And because they are officials, they are subject to the prohibition of incompatibilities and the duty to protect this prohibition. Which means, in other words, if there is a situation where there may be conflicts of interest, and if you give your work to your wife or to your husband or to your offspring, there is certainly a situation where there may be conflicts of interest, then it is the Commission to prevent corruption that says whether it is a violation of this principle or not. If there is a violation, the official must be released from such a place. Yes, I believe you do not like that it is written in another law, but the legal order of the Republic of Slovenia is the whole and all the laws together are the legal matter that binds everything. The institutions we have set up are set up to carry out their functions. I will not comment on whether the Anti-Corruption Commission is [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u27	Peace in the hall! Mr. Pojbich, you'll have a chance to speak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u28	established to serve its own purpose, but I know it is established. [[...]] And I know he has legal duties. Its duty is to protect the interests of citizens and to maintain integrity. From what I have said, it is clear that the proposals on the table today are not such as to change the problem of wage non-discipline in Slovenia in any way. The proposals on the table today are not such as to contribute in any way to the higher quality of the work of bankruptcy managers. On the contrary. Since a chamber that provides quality or that is responsible for quality care, this should be discontinued. For this reason, I do not think this law is suitable for further consideration. This does not mean that we are reducing the role and importance of bankruptcy procedures in Slovenia. Again, in bankruptcy proceedings, I would like to say that it is necessary to bear in mind that this is a private entity's procedure against private entities and any entity in this bankruptcy procedure, whether it is a debtor or a creditor, is also the master of its own destiny in a certain part. It is not easy when a company is in bankruptcy, when the claims are substantially greater than the assets that the company has. It's not easy. I don't think it's really easy. However, the legal order we have protects the rights of creditors as far as possible in such cases. And in order for these protections to be implemented in practice, procedures and bodies are required as provided for in the current legislation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Andrey Magain has the word. I'd like you to call me in time. Mr. Pojbich, do you know what half an hour is? I hope you know what half an hour is. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor as a proponent. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u30	Thank you very much. I kept my hand up a long time, but then it hurt, and I couldn't do it anymore. Look, it doesn't allow me the time available to answer all the nonsense of the Secretary of State, so just one nonsense. Mr. Secretary of State, do not refer to the law on integrity. Before that, we also had a law that talked about corruption and the law on integrity was to continue the continuity of that law, which also had such provisions. Then tell me when Mr Andrej Marinc put in the pocket of his company, the co-owner of which is EUR 180,000 of working money, what happened. Nothing happened to him. And nothing's going to happen. We say in the law that it must not do business with companies whose ownership is at least 5%. This is a more explicit provision. And it doesn't make sense. Well, well, let them hear you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Andrey Magain has the word. Get Franco Yuri ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u32	It must be acknowledged that the current law has also brought a lot of positive changes, but the novel we have in hand still fulfils these matters and complements and regulates more appropriately the status of creditors. Who's the trustee? The trustee is the person who is the holder of the claim. It would be more appropriate to have a human definition that a person who is unfortunately hopelessly hoping to receive something after the completion of the procedure. Not only does the percentages measured represent only a small part of what someone has been entitled to, it is regrettable that in the process itself, this money is being excessively lost. The bankruptcy mass is getting thinner. The law we have received has not come about quickly – as it has come to the quick law on archives, which we will consider, which has emerged after some immediate need – is the fruit of a number of reflections and, as the Ministry itself has found, the synthesis of comments, amendments that have already been tabled. This was also done by a group of creditors who know matters very well and have faithfully and responsibly addressed these issues. The moment allows me to examine these comments that I think are justified. Look into the files. This is an extremely important matter. Trustees must have access to the files. We say they do, but not entirely. The determination enabling this has expired. The first law conferred on the creditor committee the right to review the entire bankruptcy debtor's documentation, which the current law no longer allows for for unknown reasons. In view of the fact that one of the main tasks of the creditor committee is to control the course of the proceedings and to protect the interests of the creditors and ensure transparency of the proceedings, such current arrangements are mildly unusual – restricting access to the entire material. Reimbursement of expenses. That's what we're talking about. Someone will say that the reimbursement of the costs to the creditors of the creditors of the creditor committee is additionally engulfing the bankruptcy mass. Of course, but this is a relatively low amount that belongs to an interest group that will fight to keep this bankruptcy mass as useful as possible, I would say. Members of the Credit Board are currently not allowed to use insolvency funds to carry out urgent tasks: reimbursement of travel costs, participation in meetings and so on. I don't know why that's so controversial. While bankruptcy managers are spinning huge amounts of money, creditors have no opportunity to recover those basic minimum costs. What's the issue here? That wasn't answered today. It's an oath. It's really a more eloquent nature, though. It is a statement made by the administrator to the court on the assumption of his duty of conscientiously and responsibly to perform his duties and to seek the swiftest conclusion of the proceedings. We know that these procedures have stalled and stalled. What is the issue with this statement now? Since it is a declaration, once last year, an internal committee was told what we would do with such declarations. And we have many, in many places we have declarations. The reward system. This novel improves it in some elements. The current award system is all too much based on completely abstract theoretical parameters that are not necessarily related to the manager's efforts. There are percentages of the assessment of the bankruptcy mass, but they do not always say whether in some cases so much effort and work has actually been made. We can have a company with a relatively low assessment of the bankruptcy mass, but the problem itself is so complex and complex that maybe the concrete bankruptcy manager will spend ten times more energy and costs than in some major company with a relatively high bankruptcy mass, where the process is simple. The tariff system limits the prices of individual tasks but does not limit the type of works. However, something that has particularly struck me at the committee meetings when we discussed the amendments in force at this time, and today something has already been said about them. This amendment is repeated in this amendment, but this is paragraph 98. The administrator of the provision of individual services in respect of the performance of tasks in procedures under this Act shall not award to an entity in which he or their family member is himself or their member of the management or supervisory board or, directly or through other right persons, more than 5 % is involved in the establishment of rights, management or capital. I remember very precisely when this amendment was tabled. Silence in the Chamber, members of the coalition turned their heads to the ground, and no one could explain what was at stake. Today it was said that this would be regulated by the anti-corruption commission. Why not make this clear in this law? We know that in a particular case, which has also been mentioned, the anti-corruption commission has done nothing. Why shouldn't we write that? That the manager is unable to provide business to his relatives or to himself through accounting services, other services. I don't know, but I'd like to end by asking, are there even bankruptcy managers among political party donors? Interesting question. If anyone will answer me in the coming days [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u33	Thank you very much. The word is Franco Yuri. Get Joseph Jerovšek ready. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u34	Thank you for saying so, Mr President. We are also witnessing a seemingly well-intentioned law today, yet it reveals a lot of populist speech and does not offer concrete instruments to improve the situation. I think the Secretary of State of Skrlec has very rationally and soberly explained what the problem is. Above all, the current system, which relies on the functioning of disciplinary commissions in insolvency proceedings, is regulated in full respect of the rule of law and in the fact that judges now decide on it. It has been said and has repeatedly been exposed to the significance of certain oaths or articles that are intended to ensure a conscious functioning of bankruptcy managers, but not to go any further. Unfortunately, this law does not go beyond that. However, it establishes several interventions that are probably not useful for the normal functioning of bankruptcy processes. I am so surprised that the party that has shimmered precisely because of financial non-discipline in the previous term is now trying to help the government in this way. Let's remind ourselves that financial non-discipline was a constant of the previous government. I'll just give you one case. You know that in recent times he has been very involved in addressing certain issues relating to workers' rights, issues and problems that have arisen in the previous mandate. I'll give you two examples: Mercury and Stellar Nova. Steklarska Nova is an eloquent example of a violation of labour rights in the delay in the payment of contributions made possible by the intervention of the owner of Steklarska Nova, namely the Ministry of Education, which was in the hands of Mr Zver at the time, and which allowed those contributions to not be paid for one year. Even today, the workers of the Starry Nova are waiting for this issue to be rectified. I'll just give it as an example. How? They're still waiting because you guys were so complicated back then. This government has changed the law and this law no longer allows such financial discipline. You've forgotten about this before. This is just one example of how, instead of such populist proposals, the issue of these injustices could be resolved when it was resolved. I hope, we in the party will really continue to try to get rid of these things in this mandate. We have done this for the unpaid removals of Mercury workers, and we will also do this for the workers of the Glass Nova. Unfortunately, we are solving the problems and injustices that have arisen in your mandate. And that needs to be made clear. That is why we do not believe your proposals, which in fact do not contribute to anything. In fact, you are referring to cases of bankruptcy from another period. Now with the new bankruptcy law, it's settled, you don't want to admit it, and you're burdening us, and you're also burdening the time of taxpayers with proposals that have no value. I welcome the explanation of Secretary of State Shkrlec and I think there is no doubt here that what is written in the law must be respected in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u36	Thank you very much. But now we have heard the first kind of speech, just like last night in the Odessa, Mr Yuri. Look, if this is speaking, I'm gonna have to tell you this. Read the law. We wrote in the law that creditors would be entitled to court fees. You talked a lot about Glass Nova. I'm calling you to follow me. When these workers were with me for the month of November, but I think that in October you said in a pianist way how this would be handled. to correct the mistakes of the Beast. But they were with me for the month of November, and they told me they didn't have money for court fees. I did this, I took my wallet, and I gave them 200 euros. I call on you to give them 200 euros. You see, these will be acts, and they will not be words. What you're saying is words. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u37	Thank you very much. Joseph Jerovšek has the word. Get ready, Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u38	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The area governed by the Financial Business Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures is a very complex area, while we must recognise that it is poorly regulated and does not protect creditors in the first place. The last amendment to the law tabled by Minister Zalar also had more negative consequences than improvements. As a result, work in this area needs to be continued and something really changed, because the situation we have in this country is eerie in the sky. In all 20 years of autonomy in this area, we have not systematically regulated the situation in such a way that, in fact, we always stress, bankruptcy proceedings run quickly so that bankruptcy managers do not over-exploit them for their private financial purposes and society would have some of the state's solutions in time. Everyone knows cases from their own environment that, as I say, are in the sky snorkeling. In my area, in the previous system under the previous regime, he went to bankruptcy in the Agrocombinate, just before the new state was born. The bankruptcy manager died after 16 or 17 years. But so consciously, when he was delaying and working only for his own interests, our congregation lost much, for it was a matter of regulating permanent plantations that were under the law of its own country. And he took advantage of it. In those areas, before entry into the European Union under quotas, it was not possible to restore the plantations because the bankruptcy manager represented his interests. Actually, I don't know if this bankruptcy procedure is over after 22 years. It bothers me that the current ministry has no interest in changing anything here. I understand that bankruptcy managers are mostly large and strong support pillars of the three of these customers. Therefore also enormous bankruptcy payments, 600 000, 300 000, which we witnessed last year, which, following a change of tariffs, has become worse. Of course, such bankruptcy administrators can be, in my opinion, the great benefactors of government parties who allow them to do so. That's almost certain. And then there's the "hand washes hand" rule. That is why I also understand the scrupulous reading of the amendment we are proposing. See, according to the principle of equal treatment of creditors, workers and all small craft who have lost their assets through bankruptcy must be satisfied, at least to a minimum, at some point in time. And for them to know, it's over now, and now we're going somewhere else. It is also necessary to respect the principle of ensuring the best conditions for the payment of creditors and the principle that is extremely important, the speed of the procedure. Article 1 itself says: "The restorative committee has the right to look at the business books and the entire documentation relating to the bankruptcy procedure." That's the key. Now the creditor board and creditors have no right to look into business books. They are practically formal owners of the bankruptcy mass and do not have the right to look into business books. And, of course, then the bankruptcy managers can bring them around in all possible ways. And that's what they're defending in the government. If the owner, who is the creditor, looks into the business books, this ensures that they will be prevented from embezzling but you want this right to be seen only by the bankruptcy manager, that he has it in his drawer and that there is no order here, which, of course, is justified by enormous rewards, because he does not know what was in the business books at all. [[..]] Gentlemen, this is where we need to take a step forward. Stop rejecting and improve what is justified in order to improve, through your parliamentary groups with amendments. And I ask that we move forward in this country, which is in such a clairvoyant state, where the existence of people is so threatened, where at present there are 110 000 unemployed, at least what we can do, we will make a small contribution to making the country and its economy, in some foreseeable time, out of these very serious problems, where, in those key segments that the government should solve, we will see solutions, we will not suggest that at least in some part that is as important as those insolvency and bankruptcy procedures, we will also take a step forward with our help in proposing a better law in which the creditor committees who know the subject matter are involved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u39	Thank you very much. The word is Matevž Frangež. Prepare us for Jakob the Presbyterian. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u40	Respected and respected! I think it is possible to very much agree with what Dr Gorenak said in his performance immediately after the presentations on the positions of the groups. The problem is that this law that we are considering today hardly deals with what he was talking about. It may be agreed that insolvency today is the wound of the Slovenian economy. It may be highly agreed that systemic legislation in this area is one of the cancers of systemic legislation at all. However, I do not believe that these changes that are ahead of us today can significantly increase the efficiency, legality and fairness of bankruptcy proceedings. There's a witch hunt going on. And in this case, witches are not supreme judges, general prosecutors, MPs and members of the coalition, ministers and ministers, but bankruptcy administrators, in accordance with the recipe we see many times in this mandate. But that doesn't outweigh the problems we have in this area. I think we need to understand how we got into these problems in order to get rid of these problems. In particular, the construction crisis is a segment that today largely causes insolvency of both major contractors and subcontractors. Here on this line we have a series of things that are unfair, which are possibly in the past and today have been built into our legislation thoughtfully and purposefully, so that today we are actually in a situation where we see that those at the end of the chain never get paid. The bill does not deal with this, but I must say that I sincerely agree with the request of the Chamber of Commerce and Industry to terminate the enforcement settlement. I don't see the point of forced settlement, which is just an equation that can't be worked out. If a small company for a large contracting entity, say SCT, has performed 100 units, let's say that, at best, I have 90 units of cost for these 100 units, we know that the large constructionists have squeezed these little ones well and that, at least over the last two, three years, they've been working on the profitability line to get the deal. So if 90 of these costs, with the costs of workers, are the costs of other suppliers, but especially workers, if we are talking about the end of the chain, how should this small company then give the worker only 20% of the wages because only 20% will be paid for by virtue of the compulsory settlement. It's an equation that doesn't work out and I don't understand it. Perhaps it will save that large fish, which in one way or another has caused us to have a stagnation in construction as we have it. And at the end of the chain they suffer those small ones who have been very well wrapped up, not only now during the period of crisis, but throughout this Slovenian transition. Unfortunately, the proposal of this law does not deal with this. I expect the Government to respond very convincingly to this request from the Chamber of Commerce and Industry of Slovenia. I was one of the initiators of that meeting of the Committee on the Economy, when we took a closer look at the demands of craftsmen and entrepreneurs and took a deep look at the government's answers and views on these demands, I do not yet see. I see no convincing argument as to why only small ones should suffer in the equation. I don't understand. Next. I think that the number of cases we are witnessing in the Slovenian economy today shows that business owners do not carry out their tasks responsibly. Whether the company is so far away that it's insolvent or not. I think we must act in the public interest, because our constitution says that private property is in its social function and that we must react in an early manner in order to secure jobs. The example we face in Maribor is one of the small, small problems of the Slovenian economy, for example, the Maribor Vehicle Factory. There I am convinced that it has been that the owner has for a long time, in the interest of saving himself and his position, systematically squeezed his subsidiary. Today, this company is in danger of being shut down. It has negative capital, up to 137 workers, not long after 200, has a product on four wheels, a badge on its nose, one of the rare products which is still in Slovenia that we have the final product. And the objective of our industrial policy, which is now emerging, is to be exactly that, the final product with its own brand, which will generate a high added value. We can't let companies like this go to waste. We may need in this law an institute of compulsory administration, not forcible settlement, a government of public interest, in the interest of job insurance, in the interest of insurance companies, to step in the position of owners and try to rehabilitate businesses in cases where owners are exhausting them to save their ass. Maybe we need a lot of other things. It is my hope that this change that we have adopted in the middle of last year and that, as a priority, the bankruptcy process would introduce the split of the bankruptcy debtor rather than his assets, that the bankruptcy creditors become the new owners of the company, that there should not be a breakup of the business, that there should not be a break-up of the employment relationship, that the bankruptcy process would be substantially simplified in this way, because there are no auctions because there are not all possible procedures that need to be carried out in the bankruptcy process, as we understand in this country for 20 years. And that new situations can quickly arise where irresponsible owners who have not reacted in time are burdened with these responsibilities and that new owners who will be able to "comprehensively" these companies will take their place. If we allow every firm in trouble in this country to fall, we will cut off our legs in this country. I agree with the winged that we must help the successful. But, my dears, at this time, success is not enough to survive as an economy. Not enough. Hence, many others need to be helped. And I hope that in the earlier case of the Maribor Vehicle Factory a wise decision will be taken today and that the state will decide to intervene through the instruments it has. No, it's not about changing the law. I am not among those optimists who believe that everything in this country can be resolved through legislative changes. I agree with those who say we need to implement this legislation. The above-mentioned division of the bankruptcy debtor instead of the sharing of his property is in law. Tell me how many cases we have. Indemnity liability of owners has been in law since 1993, since the Company Act, Article 8, applies. Mr. Secretary of State, how many cases were there in 17, 18 years? One if I'm not wrong. And then we talk about the Wallars and things like that. We have all the necessary institutes in law, only things don't work. Well, I'm sorry, not because of the bankruptcy managers. We have one case where one bankruptcy manager, or two or three, got rich. Criminal law must prosecute such, not make legislation, as if we were all bastards in this country. Because we're not. We didn't! By the way, in this legislation we still have an institution for the removal of businesses and the legal consequences of the deletion – one of the great sins of this country, this House of State in 1999, when we adopted reckless legislation. And yet the injustices that have arisen have not been settled. It is impossible to regulate them backwards, says the government, because we come to an unconstitutional consequence. It does not matter, therefore, if any injustice has been committed against the Constitution, and frankly, whether this unconstitutionality has been established by the Constitutional Court or not is of little interest to me. And it didn't find out. But for me, the solution is still criminal, and I insist that we fix it. Also because he's fishing for small fish who don't have strong legal services and three lawyers involved. And that's why they don't catch a big fish in these nets because they have an overpowered assistant who can warn them, "Look, there's a hacker here, you're gonna get caught." And the kid gets caught. We said, think of the little ones first. First think about the small ones, the act for small businesses. I'm afraid we don't do that with our legislation, including insolvency legislation. I am also afraid that the changes proposed today are still the witch hunt and not the solution to make it different. As far as I'm concerned, with or without change, as you suggest, we will not achieve what you want. We're not gonna get what you want.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u41	Thank you very much. Dr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u42	Thank you very much. I'm very happy, Mr. Frangež, this performance of yours, I'm extremely pleased with it, at least for the work I've heard. But part of your statements refer to this law, this is true, but part of your statements refer to other laws. If you believe that the laws are right and that they must be respected, but you mention the Constitutional Court and the courts, then I understand that you have pointed to a court that obviously does not implement them, and I agree with you. But as a coalition MP, you have more options than I do in the opposition, because behind you is all government machinery, that is normal logic, there is no opposition, so I invite you or change laws, if we assess that this is necessary, or new laws, if we assess that this is necessary. Let us be exemplary and be first-signed. There is nothing wrong with that if it ever happens in this House, just help me do it. But everything you've said, and I agree and I sign. Perhaps we are on track to be the first in this House when a coalition member and one opposition member put in such legislation or set up other mechanisms to make it work so that it would not be a single instance of, I don't know how many of them you have already mentioned, implemented. You're invited to participate, I'm in. As far as this legislation is concerned, and if you protect small people, as you said in the performance, then you will turn on the green light tonight, at least as I expect, in the vote, because, in particular, from the point of view of the performance, the second, not only yours, but also the other performances that were here today, I can say the following in public. A copy of this vote will have to be published. I'll be extremely happy to see the letter with, which means, for your last name, because this will help with everything you've been talking about. I'm happy for our cooperation, and I'm offering you my hand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u43	The word is given by Mr. Jakob the Presbyterian. [[He's not here.]] Then it's Mr. Miro Friday. Get Franci Kek ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u44	Thank you very much. I agree with my colleague Frange, we are not all bastards in this country, but some are bastards, and these are big bastards. The bankruptcy anomalies were, are and probably will be, even if this amendment to the law is adopted. But the fact is, our purpose is good, this isn't about some populism you're dealing with, or a witch hunt. Certain shortcomings, however, are being corrected and corrected by this amendment, and I do not know why not all of them will be united and, in the next reading, some amendments will also improve and correct this. You will certainly agree that there is no bankruptcy manager in Slovenia who would be poor and poor. But there are many workers whose businesses are in bankruptcy, and today they are truly poor, experiencing great hardships. In addition, in Koroškem or in part in Maribor, especially in Maribor, in part in Koroškem, we had a case when the bankruptcy manager borrowed money from a financial ad hoc institution. And this bankruptcy money just got lost, disappeared. The workers didn't get anything. I don't believe this money just disappeared somewhere. I believe more in some kind of arrangement between these financial thugs and some bankruptcy manager. Mate Matjaž Zanoškar has already mentioned that there are many bankruptcys in Koroška today, and there have been many in the past, in the last ten years. If this country were a legal country, if it had any interest in catching someone even almost inflatable, then it could be done in a rather simple way. See, in Koroškem ten, fifteen years ago several companies fell consecutively: Lesna Slovenj Gradec, Taste Radlje, TUS Slovenj Gradec, Car transport Dravograd, TR Prevalje, Mikon Thinking. Over a period of several years, these companies have been bankrupt. And what's interesting. Interestingly, one company came to these companies in bankruptcy, this is Prevent Global, which is also now in bankruptcy and there are a thousand 200 workers and workers on the road. This story has two ends. The first was whether it was really necessary for these companies that I counted, from Lesna Slovenj Gradec to Mikon Thinking, that they were in bankruptcy, or whether these companies were helped inside by someone to come to the competition. And, of course, the second question is how and for how many of these companies were sold in bankruptcy. Who, we know, I've already mentioned. And this government, which we consider to be good to it, has recently made some moves to put a judge in jail and a lot of other things. Therefore, due to some legal hygiene, it might also be possible to review certain networks at local or national level, namely network contacts between bankruptcyors, individual entrepreneurs and some judges. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u45	Mr. Janez Ribič has the floor. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Marian Pojbich. Get Mr. Marjan Bezjak ready. Mr. Pojbich, please,
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u46	Dear Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues! In opening, I must say that today, in the National Assembly, we are once again witnessing the government's attitude when the government repeats mistakes over the past two and a half years. She's repeating the mistakes she's made. If I told a kid in the first grade of elementary school that he did something wrong, I'm sure I'd understand. This government, however, has been saying from the very beginning that what it is doing is wrong, is not for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. It is also warned by trade unions, workers, employers and opinion polls that they have virtually zero support, but that government does not understand it. He doesn't understand that. And if this government is less capable than a child who goes to the first grade of primary school, then I really wonder who the citizens and citizens voted for in the last national elections. And I can say that for that reason. See, once again, the opposition, the Slovenian Democratic Party, has proposed a law that is still important for this crisis to solve this social, economic and financial crisis in this country in the right direction. However, this government does not hear that. Today, the Secretary of State is saying that the solutions to the law we are proposing are inappropriate. In his position, he said, literally, "they're inappropriate." I challenge him and ask him to say below which parts of this proposed law are inappropriate. Secondly, Mr State Secretary, you said that the Slovenian Democratic Party, when it proposes important legislation that could help the Government in this situation, is playing populism. Tell me if it's populism for you when we propose a law that we want to shorten bankruptcy procedures. If I look at what the Work wrote today, it says: "Start bankruptcy procedures and forced settlement in 2010 510 in 2009 332." So what does that mean? It means that the result of the extremely poor work of this government has helped to increase the number of bankruptcys and forced settlements from 10% to 300% or 400% from 2008 to 2010. If this is not a big enough argument for us to hear and understand that we do not want to work against this government in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we do not want to work against this coalition, but we want to help this government in a part where this government is too weak, unable to bring the right solutions to a better deal with this financial, economic and social crisis. How long are you going to be sitting in these seats? I ask you kindly to understand that in this country we are so the Government, coalition and opposition, who are trying to help solve this situation as much as possible, that we are all responsible for it. The government and the coalition are primarily responsible. Today there are quite a few coalition members, and I am extremely pleased that this proposal for a law is not the whim of the Slovenian Democratic Party, but that it is the great wish of this party, which is a state-of-the-art party, who is aware of why it was elected in the previous elections, that this law is still necessary. Many of the coalition Members have also confirmed this in their speech today, and from those colleagues, Members and Members, I expect that this bill proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party will also be supported. Mr State Secretary, among other things, you have said that you do not think that bankruptcy managers were overpaid if a bankruptcy lasted 10 years, or so it was said. If I'm wrong, then you'll say it. Approximately when you said you didn't think you might be overpaid if the bankruptcy lasted 10 years. See, the purpose of this law is, among other things, to reduce the time of bankruptcy in addition to all the other legal solutions needed to do so and to avoid these bankruptcys for 10 years. How long is the bankruptcy in Germany? About a year. With us from 5, 10 and even 20 years. If we look at not to talk about TAM Maribor, today was mentioned, Elan, Glass Nova. Now there's a problem with Viator&Vector. You see what's going on in Maribor. People have been waiting for what's gonna happen since the new year. Not to talk about Vegrad. But even more unacceptable is the SCT, where the company went into a forced settlement, I don't know how it's going to end, maybe even in bankruptcy, but it's re-analysed all its assets into a new company. Workers, those who should get something out of it will lose everything because there's nothing left in the company. This government, this coalition and all those in this state who are irrefutablely responsible for this situation, you see this happening before your eyes. Then how can citizens and citizens trust you? Why are public research like this? The reasons are clear. People can't trust you if they can't even live. And those who have the chance to get to those small euro that belong to them from the bankruptcy mass don't get that either. Yes, but then how can they trust you, tell me, please! No, it doesn't help us fool around. We don't have good words, good words, scary sentences, what we've done! Which helps, what you've done if you haven't done anything for someone who's got a more empty wallet every day. You have to do something for these people! For those of you who have enough, you don't have to do anything. They can help themselves and exploit whatever is possible in this country, the judiciary, the legislature, and the executive branch of power. They're taking full advantage of everything, all because of these networks. And there's a lot of people in this country who help these networks. This is what is absurd, which is unacceptable and extremely irresponsible to citizens and citizens, to those who are difficult to live in this country. We have 110 thousand unemployed, and I don't know how many more, I think it's about 130, 140,000. Then look at how many people are on the verge of survival, having 600, 700, 800 euros in wages! At the same time, look at the number of pensioners, those with 400 euros. I spoke to a lady yesterday, she's got 420 euros in pensions! The prices go up every day. Look where the prices are going! Where's the government? You're just talking, you're just saying you're going to solve the system stuff, and so on. It's nothing! It's nothing, absolutely nothing! You're acting like people in the first grade of elementary school. You'd understand, I'd say it again if I told them they were making a mistake, and they wouldn't make that mistake again. And this government does them day in and day out. All that the opposition is investing in a good solution to the problems of citizens and citizens they face every day is rejected by the government. You just took a minute for your position and you said that this marriage is not good enough, as I said before, that solutions are inappropriate and so on. You haven't even gone into the content of this law, I'm sure of that. You're talking about Flossules that don't hold up anymore in this country because Flossule people can't live. They can't! Let's start working once if you've already said a few days ago that this government will finally start working after two and a half years! Come on, please. You've got a year and a half. I don't care who's in power right now, just like all the people who are doing bad things because they care that you're working in their interest. This should be the leader of everyone who sits in the National Assembly and sits in the government or anywhere that people have given him their vote in elections. But it's not like you're doing what's bad for this country. I listened yesterday, and every day in the media, you're going to change the electoral system to change the mayor- MP's relationship and the archive law and so on. Is this crucial to the survival of the country at this time? Do you find it appropriate at a time when there is such a deep economic and financial crisis that you allow yourself to spend time with such trivial matters?Oh, my God! Do you think the electoral system will solve the economic, financial and social crisis in the country? Never! We're gonna save her here, people. And I don't want to be part of a team that works against its own citizens to the detriment of these people. I don't want to be a part of this group. And I must tell you that I am very proud to be a member of the Slovenian Democratic Party, who has a clearly designed strategy and vision for dealing with the current critical economic and financial crisis. He's got it! And there's an alternative at every moment to the current government. Give me a chance! Don't hold back like I don't know what you're doing to bring this mandate to an end. It doesn't matter what it costs. You don't care about the price people will pay, those poor people who can't live. They'll pay. You laugh, all of you in these strong positions do not care about the poor nation. You don't care. You've proven this in two and a half years. Ask people how much they have been left in their pocket since 2008, how much their income has been reduced from 2008 to today, how many have lost their jobs and so on. That's what you have to ask yourself. And this should be the basis for an important debate between the coalition and the government. And on this basis, consider whether you are even able to take any step forward, or if you still have the confidence of this country, and then you need to decide and make decisions which at any time at this point, after my assessment, would be best to reach early elections. What you are dealing with in this situation is absurd, unacceptable and extremely damaging to the long-term future of the Republic of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u47	Mr. Marian Bezjak has the floor. Get Vito Rozje ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, chairman. Well-known Secretary of State, fellow Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we proposed to amend the law on actual insolvency, bankruptcy and compulsory settlement of companies. Why? It is from this point of view that we believe that this wagon of bankruptcys, forced settlement of wood is ruthlessly in greater and greater misery than we have heard in today's debates. Indeed, I agree with my colleague Frangež, after all, the only member of the coalition who thinks clearly is that he has been in the economy for two, three days, who knows what the economy is, how to solve, how to draw up laws, so that these procedures do not work and drag on for so long. I don't know if we've learned about the independence of Slovenia in 1991 since the then bankruptcys of Tama and Litostroj. It is true that there are more economies in Maribor at Styrian work or better said in Maribor than there is in Slovenia as a whole. It is true that the current government, the minister, is walking around the businesses that are still living, doing well. I don't know why the government or the ministry doesn't deal with companies that come into trouble with liquidity issues that have a problem with forced settlement, end of bankruptcy. In my own view, there should be no forced settlement in certain cases. I'll give you an example. In the last year in October, the company went into compulsory settlement, 80 %, if I may say in jargon, of the creditors to write off the claims. In January 2011, it went bankrupt. What have we done with this? They destroyed so many creditors, smaller subcontractors, which resulted in bankruptcy, and in the end, within two, three months, the company went bankrupt. Has it not already been seen that forced settlement cannot succeed? Finally, I would like to highlight this. In 1991-1994, when he went to bankruptcy there, then the bankruptcy manager always dealt with a person, and I'm going to call him Eapen, how he's going to save and redeem there. After 10 years he allowed 18 economic operators to buy up there and for this money he stood a little there, if I may say so, the Maribor Vehicle Factory. This Maribor Vehicle Factory is an economic operator, an economic operator gets for free. These 137 people have not been working for quite some time, a strike, justified by not getting paid for their work. These are the problems. The government or the ministry should have a team together to talk about solutions. Not that the government or the ministry in response says, "Sorry, we can't do anything here." Where can I go? My feeling is that only there is a way that 5 a month gets paid. I don't know if that's the standard, if that's the right way. It is true that in 2009, 2010 we said that there would be a crisis in construction. She really came in the worst this year. But in two years, absolutely nothing has been done about recovery programs, how to help these companies, how to find them a new extra job, a new job, or something else. Nothing. There have been pictures in foreign countries of what projects we will be doing. But unfortunately, as it seems, these paintings didn't bring fruit either, and these big companies are now going or going bankrupt. You know, in foreign countries, employees don't even know that they have a new owner from today. It's a modern-day bankruptcy. Not with us when the bankruptcy lasts 10 years or more. Very, very rare are cases that end in two, three years. I think we should start thinking about the right procedures, the solutions. We have proposed a lot of positive things in this amendment to the law that would prevent what is happening today. In the end, we did nothing about it if payments to bankruptcy managers were reduced in the previous year or the year before. They need to be limited to speed, they need to be paid to efficiency. This is what we call a variable part of the economy. That's the part. They should be paid for this part. That is why I would also like to propose to the National Assembly or to this government that coalition Members or all Members be paid by variable work. Unfortunately, I think that in this time or in these two years very, very little pay would be paid, because the effect of the laws, the effect of the work is very poor. Very, very bad. Better to say, he's gone. After all, the indicators are bankruptcys that line up from day to day. It is true, too, that we have determined that in fact the bankruptcy manager cannot have his business or sell the works of the insolvency estate to himself or his relatives. In these times, such things have been orderly and eventually bankruptcy managers have become large entrepreneurs without much effort or a lot of money invested. More to the point, these bankruptcy managers, I think, are the financiers of political parties. Why do I think that? It is from this point of view that we do not allow ourselves to have control over them and to restrict them, to limit them, to time limits and to limit them financially. That's why. That's why I can't understand that you don't want to take things that are going in a positive direction. Perhaps, however, as colleague Frangež thinks, when we lost Pukšič from our parliamentary party to come to this party, which thinks positively about the economic work. I don't know. Maybe. It is true that bureaucracy encourages every system, country or entity, and if we do not legally limit these events, these practices, then people always think about how to find a hole, how to seduce around the curve and get property wrong or drive bankruptcy as long as things are dragging. I hope that colleague Frangež has convinced a number of coalition MPs that we must do something positive. If you may disagree with an article or need to be updated, it should be arranged for amendments. Suma sumarum, however, believes that the matter is ready for experience, prepared by the Chamber of Commerce and Industry, us Members, who at the end of the day also come from an economy that does not approve of these machinations or these anomalies in the system as they are now. I therefore believe that you will support this law and that we will take one step forward in the Slovenian democracy of entrepreneurship, economy, Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u49	Mr. Vito Rozej has the floor. Have Franz Pukšič ready if he's not here, Mr. Ivan Grill.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u50	Thank you so much for saying that. As colleague Pojbič said in his 15-minute speech before the 13-minute speech, it will not help us to make a fuss about the economic situation in Slovenia. Let's clear up who's been talking for the last 28 minutes about the economic situation and possible solutions. When we assess what our operation is and how we spend our time, we can only remember that this week we are talking about the archives of the State Security Service, which are open and non-open and that the State Archives are supposed to be preparing a coup, although the 2007 regulation, which was signed by the then Prime Minister and the current President of the largest opposition party, makes it clear that this coup will then last for at least a few years. If we're mostly dealing with this and then hearing from the same people that this government does nothing for the economy and mixes air and deals with irrelevant things, then I don't know how they evaluate their actions. It would be good to be a little self-critical and, say, not to mention to the government that she did not read the law, as did colleague Pojbič, and to conclude that she took a minute and a little longer to explain her opinion. I, in my 15-minute speech to my colleague Pojbič, did not find one word on the content of the law, and I am sure that if I had to say in five sentences what the solution of the law he had co-signed, I would not have put together a half sentence on this. Therefore, it is also very difficult to accept flat-rate assessments of what is right and what is wrong if someone decides what is right and what is wrong only on his party card or client card. Although I hear many times from the SDS Group, what is right and what is wrong in the economy, what is legal and what is illegal, and of course I know that the lawfulness or illegality in our country is determined by the courts. With bright exceptions, colleague Jeraeva yesterday I have heard that constitutionality and unconstitutionality are determined by the Constitutional Court, so I must admit that I would be happy if all members of the SDS Group and members of the SDS Group were so consistent and such assessments as to what is legal, what is illegal, what is right and what is wrong, who should listen and why. I find it difficult to accept the interpretations of the "known economist" of colleague Bezjak, who, as supervisor of Luke Koper in the previous term, probably also made sure that one of the better-standing Slovenian companies is on their knees today and, God forbid that it will ever be subject to this law that we are talking about today. And also about who could have been paid by the variable effect from that position of supervisor Luke Koper, who had cashed about 20,000 euros a year for going downhill. It's hard. It's hard for me to take it seriously. Also, because someone was in a position to be rich in his place, his family members as owners of companies were extremely grotesque. And I would also say that using the example of the Starry Nova and its workers to justify this doing is the position of the one who is responsible for the company's being extremely irresponsible where it is.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u51	Mr. Gorenak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u52	Yes, of course, as a proponent. Well, when Mr. Rose comes by, I'd really like a word. I was talking about Glass Nova. I said that workers can't pay court fees, so I contributed 200 euros out of my pocket, but I didn't do it in front of TV cameras. Your Member, Mr. Yuri, accepted them in October, stood in front of the camera in a festive manner and said, "Your problem will be solved." But today we're four months after that, and I don't think he's saved yet. Look, that's the difference between us. He's in front of the cameras – because of the public effects – and I'm in the office of the MPs. See, that's the difference. You see, that's talk. And when you talk about dealing with irrelevant things, archives, etc., let me remind you of the next matter. This week's theme is the current archive theme. But that's history. We're not supposed to be dealing with history. We have to live for the future, that's what you say, and for the children — don't we? That's right. Then why did you open the archive theme once? Did we open it? You brought in the law, so you said, "It's gonna be a secret." So you're the one who triggered this debate and not us. So much so that we're clear. What is legality? Of course, it is up to the courts and the Constitutional Court to decide. And in this government, the boss of Owl. The boss of Owl decides that this could be illegal or unconstitutional, so he will close. We're probably close to making the Head of Owl the vice-president of the government. It's like that in Egypt. They'll have plenty of you slowly, you know. But please tell the Secretary of State the following, ma'am. He spoke a little earlier about how the creditor committee has access to all data in such a way and in such a way as is prescribed by law. Last time we discussed this law, I said that we were moving on to the next article, Amendment 19, is substantively the same and so, and I said that it was completely understandable for me to support this amendment because it allowed creditors to look into the documentation. Mr Škrlec replied to me: "I must say that the Ministry is not inclined to do so, the creditor committee has the right to request an extraordinary report after the current 100th Article of the Law and this right also includes the right to review the requirement for the submitted business documentation of the insolvency debtor." Look, the decision of the Supreme Court in Ljubljana. When was it adopted? 27. 20. 2010 He says: "The higher court in its explanation of the decision states, inter alia, that the creditor committee wrongly substantiates its entitlements after the submission of the original documents to the provision of Article 100 of the law, because it obliges the manager only to submit written reports rather than to submit documentation. So the creditors by law, they were tried by the court, they don't have that right. But the secretary said they had it. And that is why we propose what I said in the introduction, that the documentation is available to the creditors, and nothing else. It's those who have created in the company who are six months without pay and who are fighting for that bloodyly earned money that's called a payback because they went to chess for free. That's what this is about. But now they have no right to look at these documents, nor do they have the right to get the documents to work for free without getting paid. They don't have that right. That's what the court decided. We're fixing this with a proposal. Please tell him he thought wrong last year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u53	Mr. Ivan Grill has the floor. Get Mr. Milan Gumzar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u54	Thank you very much. I would like to begin my debate with the statement by the Secretary of State that this topic, which we now want to highlight or amend in this law, is governed by the rest of the legislation and that the law applies to all the same things and that everyone must also respect it. When one of the Members of the Zares Group mentioned the archive law before me, I would like to ask the Secretary of State when he will come, if he can answer me, or whether the Government is also subject to the law adopted in Slovenia, as well as to state institutions. When it comes to archives, it is illegal not to allow Mr Omerza and others to do so. Talking about how legislation applies to everyone is more than funny. And that is the problem, that those who are most violating the rule of law, who are responsible for such a situation in Slovenia, can very easily abuse this legislation. The well-respected coalition, or very few of you, from the party really none, from DeSUS, even from a few others, is also showing the relation to such an important law as is being dealt with today. It is true that we are investing it as an opposition party, but this law is so important, not only in these articles, which we are now changing or we want to change, even in others. Ask the tradesmen, the trade hall, probably the Chamber of Commerce, what is the biggest problem for them. That's the law right there. Otherwise, some other matters are even more important to them. This law is so bad that even you, the government, have already sent proposals to the ministries where the law needs to be improved, where the law needs to be amended. Why? In order to obtain, in bankruptcy proceedings, enforcement procedures, those resources that are now so cleverly being misused by those who owe it to them will be used. And it's on the bill. Because this legislation allows them to do so. Therefore, not to say that this law, which was passed last year, is a solution, a good solution that solves these problems. That's not true. This marriage is like a mockery of all those who should be protected by this law, that is, by the creditors. A respected coalition or government is now no time for political prestige. Now is the time to take action to find solutions that will give our economy the opportunity to somehow begin to repair, to start re-establishing new businesses, to create some optimism, but not to witness 12 000 companies as far as they went bankrupt last year between small businesses. Very many of them, or perhaps most of them probably because of this law, because large systems, large companies, from SCT, Vegrad were basically tricked. Now I'd like to go back to the very content of the law. I would like to know from the Secretary of State not only the general assessment, as he said in his presentation, that this law is unnecessary in order not to support it, but that it should specifically say which of the 11 members, as far as this law has, is poor, is contrary to some efforts to better regulate this area. Is this bad enough for the creditor committee to get to know the documentation? Is that what it shouldn't be? Article 5(5) Is it bad to give the reward to the manager in accordance with the managers — we are talking about the bankruptcy manager — the effort to pay the creditors better and in proportion to the results achieved in the process? Is it bad in this law that the bankruptcy manager can also be paid according to his achievements, his effects? Can they be allowed to conduct the procedure as long as they feel it takes, and of course they deserve it? I was horrified. Today I read the data, Vegrad, as we know, is in bankruptcy, in three months the cost of bankruptcy was €18,000. Out of what I think is absurd, €258 000 for the premises they pay for 33 euros per square meter. Somebody tell me what these rooms must be like. Does a bankruptcy manager really need such expensive, such luxurious spaces? This should also be the responsibility of bankruptcy managers, who should also be paid. The Secretary of State mentioned earlier in his discussion that the Chamber ensures quality and that the Chamber should be and should address work and procedures as well as the responsibility of bankruptcy managers. When, though, did another chamber do what was expected? They always protect each other. Let the bar tell me when was the last time a lawyer was sanctioned by a chamber. And here it is. Everyone knows each other, and this chamber certainly does not play its part as it should. Therefore, this law gives the Ministry the task, competence or opportunity to set up a disciplinary commission which will be able to assess any conduct independently, in a professional manner, without any links which exist in a chamber such as it is. Let the chamber exist to ensure that bankruptcy managers are educated, this is no problem. However, it is not her responsibility to assess the work of her members. The crow has never turned its eyes off, and it won't be here either. Conflict of interest. In our law, we want him to leave. Is this a bad thing, or is it in any way damaging to companies in bankruptcy or not? It's in the best interest of not being abused. I would really like anyone on the side of the coalition to comment on at least one article and also to say where that article is unacceptable, bad, or in any way making the law as bad as it is. I would have expected, not just me, that's what creditors expect, that's what entrepreneurs expect, that's what they'll have adopted. And if this were to be adopted, there would certainly be a number of other areas in this law that need to be changed, regulated, especially in those enforcement procedures and also in the enforcement procedures themselves. There's a lot of anomalies there, too. Government, really roll up your sleeves and make changes where necessary where necessary. The Archives Act and everything that's here doesn't matter now, so we expect to get some sort of solution that will take a step further. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u55	Mr Milan Gumzar has the floor. Mr Barovic, I can't see. Mr. France Tsukati would be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u56	Thank you for your word. In opening, I would like to point out that, in presenting the position of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, I have mentioned that we will not support this law, and I have further stressed that we are, in fact, aware of or appreciate the concern of the Slovenian Democratic Party that this law improves in this area. Today we have heard very little argument in this Chamber about the very contents of the law, so we have listened to everything else. The State Secretary of the competent ministry is in his own explanation, and we have also summarized this within the parliamentary group and said that most of the cases proposed by the amendment of the law are already governed by the current law. It is true that there may be things that need to be changed here and there. However, we have also heard today that within the Liberal Democracy we do not know how to listen to a man who has less than 500 euros in pension, who earns less than 500 euros. Personally, I cannot agree with this because I come from an environment where people find it very difficult to live with this money and even very difficult to survive. Today, it has also been said that we do not worry about the workers, that we have not given the workers priority to claim that the law in force is bad, or that it is almost in vain, and that the law we adopted last year is not good or has not changed. If I recall a little back when we heard the debate last year from the opposition, if I may say so, some even stressed that there is an existing law or that when we renew the law in force at that time, we are improving certain things with this change, but it was true that we were not able to do everything at that time. Today we have heard that bankruptcy procedures last for 5, 10 and 20 years. If someone is sitting at home in front of a TV set listening to what this taxpayer or listener or viewer will remember? Someone said that bankruptcy proceedings have been ongoing in the Republic of Slovenia for 20 years. This means that at this point we are regulating bankruptcy procedures that have started in another country, which is of course not entirely true. We also have information that some bankruptcy procedures are relatively quickly resolved. We have limited the awards of bankruptcy managers with the previous law. One way or another, we can stress that today is a little different than it was two years ago or three years ago, we come back to the same thing, talking about what happened once. And in the end, gentlemen, if we are very concerned about people who do not have money for bankruptcy procedures, I suggest, colleagues and colleagues, that we set up a fund within the National Assembly, we agree to give each of our earnings for a month 1% or 2%, thereby helping the workers. I have to say that I will gladly make 1% or 2% of my earnings, and I wonder if the others would be able to do so. Mr Pojbič, I speak from the bottom of my pay, because this income is significantly lower than some others have, and this is not the content, and I also think it is irrelevant that we discuss it from the bench. Finally, I would like to point out once again that I am not afraid that tomorrow's list will be published, as I voted, because in a way I am convinced of what the Secretary of State has said, as the government has said, that the existing law has an effect on a particular issue that we are dealing with today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u57	Mr. Vinko Gorenak as a proponent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u58	Thank you very much. Mr Gumzar, let me inform you of the following matter, given your proposal of 1% or 2% to put them in a special fund. I am pleased with such initiatives, but the SDS, all the Members sitting here, have been paying 3.5% of their salary every month for the third year now, each of us is a student of one of the poorest children. We're already doing this. I'd like to invite you to join us. And that's a very correct thing to do. Last year alone, I allocated 3 000 600 euros for charity purposes. It's also in the report I had to file. As far as marriage is concerned, you say that it does not bring any special added value or something similar has been heard. I have to repeat, the law provides insight into business books and documentation. The Secretary of State claimed that it was already possible and the court said that it was not possible. You've been denied, Secretary of State. Furthermore, these people are entitled to the basic travel costs. What does that mean? That he'll be brought from Glass Nova to Celje for a meeting, a bus ticket, nothing more. Furthermore, they are entitled not to contract bankruptcy managers with their own companies, this is a great added value that Mr Marinc in Elan will not put EUR 180,000 in his pocket, in the pocket of his company. That's a big added value. I invite you to press for it. The high added value is also that the awards to bankruptcy managers will be determined in accordance with their efforts to make them faster. It is true that we have bankruptcys that are quickly completed, but it is true that we also have those 20-year-olds, Elan look at it, Videm-Kriško look at it, a little less than 20, but it is. The next added value is disciplinary responsibility. They cannot judge themselves, but they must be judged by disciplinary commissions, in which they will be chiefly judges. And the next added value is court fees. Today, those who have nothing pay out of their pocket because they have nothing, but they still pull out there, and everyone like in Glass Nova collects a few euros to pay a court fee. That's what we're telling them by law right now is that they don't have to pay for it. I see great added values, and I really invite you to participate, and above all, that you go to 3.5%, not 1% to 2%, go to 3.5%, maybe now you can cut 7% to catch up with us because we've been paying for this for three years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u59	Mr. France Tsukati has the floor. The next one is mag. Radovan Žerjav, then Mr. Jože Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u60	Thank you for your word. Look, we're still in transition, a young country and a lot of our legislation is flawed, we're holed up. I'm not going to say that these shortcomings have been deliberately introduced, I'm not representing this position. Life has just shown that many things that have not always been best defined since Slovenia's independence. Clearly, we also have some shortcomings that are still present, shortcomings that life brings to the fore. We know how the bankruptcy proceedings have deliberately stalled for years and years because the bankruptcy manager has further exhausted the company and reduced the bankruptcy burden. We know how bankruptcy managers have done unnecessary transactions at extremely high prices with their companies, companies of their friends and so on. How they channeled the rest of the thing written on the skin to their friends, to set up some small company out of the remains of it and so on. Of course, the consequences were borne by creditors, especially small creditors, workers. All three novels that have been adopted since the beginning of this law have tried to correct and made sense. However, if we count the crisis by the number of bankruptcys and bankruptcys of large companies, ladies and gentlemen, we are only at the beginning of the crisis. The construction empire is collapsing, followed by a series of bankruptcys by subcontractors and everyone else. Now is the time for all those anomalies that have proved to be, but we are still trying to repair them. And that's what this proposal does. The bankruptcy managers were able to do all these machinations because the procedure was not transparent because the data did not come from those who were genuinely interested, and these are creditors. That's what's important to me. This proposal brings a number of good proposals. For me, this is a key proposal for creditors to have a review of the bankruptcy manager's performance. I also come from a congregation that experienced two major bankruptcys during this time, the last of which was the Vrhnika Leather Industry. And what happened? It was talked long and hard, creditors, workers, how the bankruptcy is going, how the bankruptcy manager does it and what does it, drains, exhausts. But no one had a view, no one could control it, because of the creditors. However, there are some large creditors, even in other cases, not just those who had insights because they had personal friendly communication with the bankruptcy manager and were favored by this. And it went bankrupt also on account of a better treatment of an individual large creditor. Who's always been short in this process? They were workers. So those to whom we remind again and again in all these performances that for years and years they have incorporated their work into factories, companies, companies, were months and months without pay and have really drawn the shortest. I think we should tighten our stance. According to some moral principles, the creditors remained owners of what was left of the company. The owner must, however, have the right to look into, to know what is going on with this remnant, and to monitor and exercise his right to do so. I even think that, according to some normal procedures and principles, creditors should even have the right to suspend such a bankruptcy manager who is not trusted with him — even we should write that down — and that they should even have the right to give their consent or to reject the proposal of the court he appoints. Even that's what we should do. This proposal is a higher standard for the protection of creditors' rights and it is only the beginning of this procedure for the adoption of this proposal, so I would suggest that, however, since you have a majority in Parliament, you vote that the proposal is suitable for further consideration and that we can complement it, sharpen it and also meet the government's expectations, which have already been mentioned, that this legislation should be supplemented. But it's needed as soon as possible, because we're only threatened with bankruptcy in a larger number.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u61	Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Jože Tanko. Mr. Bojan Chapič will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. Given that there is not much time left, I would point out that this is the only anti-crisis law we are considering at this meeting, because this law prevents the crisis of all those involved in bankruptcy proceedings that have their assets in these bankruptcy proceedings, either for what they have done there as employees, as workers, either as companies, as espouses, as shareholders or as shareholders. And if we want to prevent a crisis in these companies, which are the heirs of the bad part of those in whom they carried out it, then this law must be adopted. And if anyone, in the government or in the National Assembly, thinks that something needs to be added, that he can propose specific amendments, and we will be happy to supplement these matters. Otherwise, all those who oppose this advocate that this crisis continues to be that those who have entitlements and rights there have no insight have no opportunity to enforce these matters in their own procedures.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u63	Mr. Bogdan Chapich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. This law alone does not solve anything, and this law is not an antichrist law. Of course, some of the extensions that my predecessor, Mr Tsukati, spoke, were probably the possibility of a better marriage, but we do not open these articles in this law. Of course, we are talking about how and how the creditor should be the one who will lead the bankruptcy proceedings and take care of the property that is possibly left behind. And for this reason, this law must be stopped and imposed on the Government to prepare solutions that will go in this direction towards protecting creditors, in order to simplify certain things, to prevent owners, when they are in the interests of the owner and propose a compulsory settlement with a 10, 20% payment of a claim to make this impossible, because it is actually a speculation of the owner that he will make a move to take a share of the assets to others, to set up a new company to carry out a business, to do even more debt and then to put it all together into bankruptcy. It is necessary to prevent and prepare such a law that will work in this direction. Today's debate, especially the demogos or the loud one, thanks for not giving the camera 200 euros to the workers, and today at least three or four times before the camera this has been said that someone has done it, will not save us any company, even 200 euros for bankruptcy does not solve the business. Not that someone's giving out 3.5% of their scholarships or I don't know what else, but in the media, it was heard that you paid half your salary to pay off some debt. And it's also right, because it's your right to make and have your money, just like I do with my money, when, of course, I'm funding two students, i.e. your child, and I'm teaching them. And it's my duty not the last time. All the demagogic debates, all the things that we have heard here today, will not do anything if we do not change our attitude to forced settlement in this insolvency law, when and how it is possible, or even when we know in advance that all creditors will be not only large but all, especially small creditors, damaged, when the assets of the one in the forced settlement do not allow for a 50 % payment and whether it is really reasonable to have a settlement at that time. The solution to be followed by the fact that when an entity goes bankrupt, it is clearly stated that it is the owner of such an undertaking or the owners, if any, of course, of its assets, are no longer bankrupt. And the new property of such a company is actually the debt generated by this company, the claims that are, and the creditors, all, from the one that has 1 cent to the one that has millions of euros, within this equally and solidarityally solve this. And they will decide whether the production or the activity of this company, which has gone into difficulty and bankruptcy, will continue to take place, recapitalise it, or terminate it altogether, because they do not see the possibility of the business continuing. And that's why it needs to be changed. However, since that time, this government has not changed or helped or saved, nor has it been completely true. Mr Tsukati made it very clear that the mistakes were made in the adoption of the law in 2007 and were being corrected, probably not all, but the ones that allowed large awards to bankruptcy managers, were being corrected. This one was limited, and this was a mistake that happened unintentionally, but it happened and it was fixed. And so today, opening things up, talking about the rule of law and linking it to archives, has nothing to do with it. No opening of the archive will save any company. And companies will still go bankrupt because of poor governance or because of the inherited investments they make, or because they simply cannot sell their product as they are now in construction. Most construction workers are now in difficult situations because the apartments they were building in the previous period, for which they received loans that were not favourable, and these loans were for 4 billion in the construction industry, cannot sell these apartments today and cannot pay their subcontractors. And here's the basic problem. It is true, however, that I am surprised that the builder has entered into problems that he had most of the state budget business and which, in fact, no road, no tunnel is available for sale, but is now in difficulty and is a large part of the construction operation, in fact putting it in an unenviable position. These are things that the police, the judiciary, the prosecution must find out where and how the funds have been spilled and where they have actually disappeared and in which countries or oasis. I therefore appeal to the Government to include in the preparation of the crisis strategy and crisis measures an internal amendment to this insolvency law, in order to make it possible in a simplified way, I do not know how, in what way, I am not a lawyer, but in the way that bankruptcy begins, it will relatively quickly end up that creditors will, of course, take over the management of this, know what lies ahead, have access to all the data, because these claims will be within this and will, of course, decide whether or not to move forward, and also place bankruptcy managers as some kind of procurators and the link between the judiciary, which sometimes has to decide, and during the new management of such a company. This means in some way restructuring the economy and bringing new things to life. I hope the government and the ministry will follow that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u65	Mr. Secretary of State, on behalf of the Government, would you like a word?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u66	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I will not repeat what I have already said about the position and reasons for such a position with regard to the novel's proposal before us today. I think that was also quite clear. Perhaps in the end, though, I say that the perceptions that the Government does not care about the situation in the economy cannot accept such an impression. We are working to ensure that the legal framework allowing operators to do business – and in the justice ministry, jurisdiction in this regard is quite limited to that part of the business that is essentially business before the collapse, i.e. insolvency. We are looking for solutions that are most favourable to the situation in which the Slovenian economy is located. This situation is not easy. As I have already said, it is certainly not in our interest to make it difficult for creditors to access their claims to which they are entitled. I also listed a number of measures by which the amendments to this law, which was marked as very modern and advanced when it was adopted in 2007, and I believe it is. The type of measures we have adapted this law to the circumstances in which the Republic of Slovenia or the economy in Slovenia are located. These concrete proposals, which are now on the table, however, let us assess that they are not those that will help a more efficient course of bankruptcy proceedings or a faster payment to the creditor. Why do we think that? I've already explained it in very detail. However, I would like to add about the concern for workers, perhaps it is not directly related to this law, but I think it is worth saying because somehow it seems as if we do not have a system in the Republic of Slovenia that would allow those who do not have money to initiate judicial proceedings. Such an impression would be wrong because it is not in line with what the legislation allows. The legislation enables and knows the Institute of Free Legal Aid and also the exemption from payment of judicial fees. In such cases as you have described, both institutions can serve their purpose and allow those who do not have money to access the court. This is also the purpose and this instrumentation works quite successfully. The concern for workers, which has been repeatedly highlighted, I must say that I have already said with what concrete measures this law has been supplemented in order to ensure that workers do not work for free without paying so that agony does not prolong. There are no additional solutions to this problem in this proposal, which is on the table today. With regard to access to documentation – Mr Member, you have shown one court decision; it is true, but you also know that other court decisions allowing access to documentation are also possible. The documentation as annexes to the bankruptcy manager's report, as the bankruptcy manager is required to report in detail on the way the creditors are protected at the request of the creditor's committee. If the creditors are harmed and the creditors are harmed, these are not things that the legislation would not have today, but it is true that compensation procedures need to be initiated and that they are probably not simple. That's right. However, I fear that they cannot be achieved by simple intervention or by a solution that would allow for swift justice. If there was such a recipe, I believe we would already have it in our legislation. This is a dispute in which the court must prove its claims, and this, of course, takes a certain time when we are talking about compensation liability. The favouring of creditors, which we have also heard about, is, of course, something prohibited in existing legislation. One of the basic principles of bankruptcy law is the principle of equal treatment and equal pay to creditors. If the bankruptcy manager or someone else is acting against it, of course, he is in violation of the law. And for a change of law – I do not believe that we can write this breach even more clearly. This breach already exists today and the fundamental principle, as I have said, is that it respects this principle. However, I believe that the chamber whose abolition this novel proposes will help to reduce such behaviour if it comes to them, because the bankruptcy managers will do their work better due to the content they will receive in the Chamber. But I've already said about responsibility, and let me say it again, because in the meantime, it has been repeated that they are on their own. It's not true that bankruptcy managers judge themselves. In disciplinary proceedings, they will be tried by commissions in which the majority of the judges have judges. That's what the law says today, and that's what the current system is. And we don't see the need to change it in such a way that the Chamber cancels, because, as I said, the purpose of the Chamber is to raise the quality of the work of bankruptcy managers. The idea of giving comfort because the truth to the loving, corrupt administrators will not decide their own disciplinary violations. Of course, it is also a disciplinary violation if the bankruptcy manager is acting contrary to his duties; the duties that are, of course, written in the law and are owed to the bankruptcy manager. Let me conclude with this the presentation of my position, but at the very end, let me mention something, because it is worth mentioning. Indeed, judicial statistics also show the duration of bankruptcy proceedings. Today, it has been repeatedly mentioned that certain procedures are very long. Yes, they were. These cases, which were mentioned, Elan, Videm Krško, were long and, as I have already said, also ran in some other times, under another legislation. Statistics for 2009 show that more than 65% of bankruptcy proceedings end earlier than in the year. So, the statement or no indication, I have not heard such a statement, but the feeling that somehow is being imposed through this debate, that all bankruptcy procedures are being carried out for a very long time, is not an appropriate feeling. This feeling is not in line with what the actual situation is. The actual situation, however, is slightly different. I also believe that the speed of these procedures is linked to this law, which is in force today, which was adopted by the previous Government or the previous Parliament. I think that, with the changes that have been made in the past, this ensures an appropriate way for the future as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u67	Would you like Dr. Gorenak's word? Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u68	Thank you very much. I'll take my turn. Mr Čepič spoke about the fact that the law does not save anything, then he made a fuss, and I will allow this expression, at half wages, scholarships of 200 euros and so on. Everything you've listed, we're giving, all of it! You said you'd reject the law because it doesn't introduce anything new and that the government should prepare a new one. It's not working! Minister Gaspari said that insolvent, i.e. bankruptcy legislation, is not right, under that coalition clause, it was said that it was wrong and we were going to fix it. 11 days later, the minister declared that nothing needed to be changed. If the minister declares that nothing needs to be changed, you are now appealing – I do not think that appeals are helping this government. A concrete proposal needs to come, purely concrete, as we have given it. For the sake of easier understanding, I have to go in order now. No value added. In the case of Elan, when the bankruptcy manager sent EUR 180,000 to his company, that would mean 40 workers' salaries. Is that an added value? Well, that's the first one, Mr. Chappich, news. By the way, you didn't notice her. Indeed, we have said that bankruptcy managers must not do business with companies in which they own themselves. You didn't notice that. But perhaps I will convince you that you will vote in favour. He put 40 in his pocket. In the case of Videm Krsko, he took away 160,000 euros, proving too much. This was the case of the Higher Court in Ljubljana. In order to secure this, we propose two things: for the first time, an oath to do what is fair, but that is moral, while at the same time proposing a determination that this amount of the bankruptcy reward would be in line with his efforts to pay the creditors and the results achieved. And let's say, if we take EUR 160,000 now, but once again, almost 40 salaries, which have been found to have been found at the second stage by someone at the expense of the court, and there was no possibility of a complaint, the judge even wrote that "this is our country" in that judgment. Look, Mr. Chapich, second added value. If you have overlooked, I invite you to take another look before we vote on this law. So, marriage brings slowly new things and other things. Look, the Credit Committee doesn't have the right to look into the paperwork, but it can only kindly ask the bankruptcy manager to report. Last year, the Secretary of State claimed that article 100 allowed this, and the Supreme Court in Ljubljana said that the Secretary of State was wrong because the creditors in the Sicura case, I think it was HKS Sicura, said, "No, the 100th article does not allow this." The added value of this law is to make it possible. Another added value is that to those who have been told all the time that they have nothing – Mr. Chapič?Oh, my God! Ah, you're looking at the law, okay. So the added value is one more, if you follow through, we can look at Article 355 and we'll find that it has another added value, but I only counted three, and that's the one where the court fees would not be paid by the creditor board. It means that those who have lost everything who have nothing can't even teach their children because they care for a piece of bread on the Karitas and on the Red Cross that they don't pay a court fee. That's what the law says. 355, if you follow. Furthermore, from 120 a.m. to 120j, it says, "the crow does not turn off its eyes." And we're trying to get the crow's eyes out, so we're trying to get it into an effective system. The Secretary of State said how well arranged it is for judges to be on these disciplinary committees and so on. The Secretary of State, there is still one missing, and I will believe you: how many were disciplined for responsible and guilty? How much? But if you had added nothing, you would have denied yourselves: only to deny yourself, but I know that it is difficult for a speaker. This whole set of issues does not solve the next problem. This is the one: the minister said that the SCT couldn't do anything without it, Zidar sent things to bankruptcy and forced settlement, set up new companies, transferred healthy parts and some workers there, and sent everyone else to the stock exchange. Well, these are the creditors now who have nothing. And the minister says, "Sorry, I can't help anything." You remind the Minister that there are 42rd, 43rd, 44th articles that give the Minister the opportunity to act. Since we are at the conclusion, I will say this: if this law is to be rejected in the evening, know that I will ask my colleagues for the necessary signatures to help me to sign it and that I will file this law again to meet again, Mr Secretary of State, because the people are watching you and the judgment is written to you and to me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u69	Thank you. You can't have another word, Mr. Secretary of State. You have been given the floor by all the people you wanted to discuss, because the time for discussion has not yet expired, in accordance with Article 71(1) of the Rules of Procedure, I call on you to apply for the debate. Check-in is on. Six plus the government has been reported. Everyone has five minutes at their disposal. Here you go, Mr. Rudolf Petan.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u70	Thank you for your word. Your Honor! Here I have statistics published today in the media that the total number of bankruptcy proceedings initiated in 2009 was 332, and 510 in 2010. That's what I think the index is close to 160. This is said to be 60 % more of the bankruptcy proceedings initiated in 2010 than in 2009, and as it began this year, it seems that there will be another 60% trend in last year. What does that mean? This means that what we are proposing is to avoid the use of bankruptcy managers to channel funds to their registered companies, so that they do not transfer EUR 180,000 to their own company. Next, that the board of creditors in these 800 bankruptcys in two years could have had an insight into the business books and that it would not only have a bankruptcy manager and it could have "coloring" the workers as much as it would have wanted, or that it could be excused for not being able to do anything. That's what we suggest could happen. We also propose that if we go to the most important points, because the time is running out, that the prizes to the bankruptcy manager are not just as flat EUR 400 000, EUR 500 000, EUR 200 000, that this prize should be awarded in accordance with his efforts to pay the creditors and that the creditors may also tell whether they have earned the prize or not, and in proportion to the results achieved, but not that they have achieved nothing in this area, but charged them EUR 400 or 200 000. And then, if possible, he's been granted this within 24 hours as we had the case. And given such a high number of bankruptcys, over 800 in the last two years, it would probably be good if creditors, the bankruptcy chamber could be exempt from a court fee so that what a colleague said on the case of the new Steklarska, when workers who demanded bankruptcy, because it was the last chance to get at least something out of what was theirs, but they didn't have a few hundred euros to start the procedure to file bankruptcy proceedings because they had to give such a high fee. How, though, will one who has not received a salary for six months who has not received other guaranteed rights from work have to support himself, his family, even money to pay a court fee?Oh, my God! Some of you object — I don’t understand. Therefore, in the beginning, I said that in 2009 and 2010, new insolvency proceedings were tabled together. How many workers are there? That's not what the statistics say. But since we had some very resilient and large firms in bankruptcy last year, there must be 10,000 workers. And you're against them having an insight into this business book! No, you're against it! In order for such a high number of bankruptcy proceedings, those who have nothing to lose would be exempt from court fees. No, you're against it! You're saying it's bullshit! That's just amazing. And now slowly, given this data on bankruptcy proceedings and what we're looking at this year, I understand why you want a court fee to be paid by employees and creditors. Because it will also raise some money and it is those who are supposed to represent these workers who will collect that money. Yeah, great! They will be able to attribute compensation for the conduct of bankruptcy proceedings as much as they want, regardless of whether they will be able to produce anything for those for whom they are there, at all, because the results of their work will be independent of the results of their work. That is why we have proposed such a law that I support, and I also appeal to all to support it, especially in the situation that we are now looking forward to. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u71	Mr. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Once again, I would like to point out on my behalf and on behalf of my colleagues from the Slovenian National Party that we are convinced that this law, which is before us today, is the draft law on amendments and additions to the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination, is the anti-crisis law and should therefore be understood. I would like to point out once again, without any political affiliation, left, right, center, up or down, that in cases of bankruptcy, there is a risk that not only those people from the company who are in bankruptcy who have been creating and affected all the time are in danger of being harmed, are also the owners of companies that are creditors. And it is not only owners of companies that are creditors that are in danger, but also workers in the companies of these creditors. And there are families of these workers who work in companies of creditors in danger. That's what I'd like to point out. I therefore understand that this proposal for a law that I consider to be an anti-crisis law is good. One last thought. You know, I've never heard of a ship's captain sinking richly. And sometimes, you know, purely ordinary people fully understand and wonder how it's possible that someone who just sinks a ship that just shuts down, shuts down and makes a company that's gone can be so richly rewarded. The captain who sank the ship has never been rewarded, usually the last to leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u73	Mr. Branko Marinic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u74	Thank you so much for saying that. I must say that, as qualified proponents in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we expected a different content of the discussions of colleagues in the National Assembly, especially those who say that our proposal is not good, that it is weak, that we are more or less used to it. But with a heavy heart, we accept such explanations, for our purpose was not to pursue politics, some ideology, some kind of fine language that you read to us today. It may be that colleagues from that part of Slovenia, who in the area of the industrial complex called TAM, have actually experienced the birth of what is happening today in this area and which led us to propose some improvements. Not that we want to tease, we want to help. And since we all find that it would be good to help, it would be right for us to walk together and do something good. This proposal is a good one. However, it is not so good that it could not be even better and therefore the debate was not heard in this debate by colleagues and colleagues on the other hand in order to add something that would improve the situation to the content of our proposal. But what pains me, distinguished representatives of the government, when I look at you all this morning, I must express something that may seem strange. I see you're young, educated, understanding things. But I don't need to understand how you get to those behind you who force you into something that you do here, that looks like my personal evaluation, that doesn't reflect what you would expect from experience to know and be able to do. And that's not right! And I get the feeling that the government is real and that the government's representatives are being led somewhere in the background. And that's sad for this Slovenia. It's sad, and it's worth all the convictions. Comparing the Government's priorities for 2011-2012. In six priorities, with 24 subpriorities, the government has also announced. Unfortunately, what can we find? I thought of something that's very possible to compare. He was an innkeeper who had a sign: Today for money, tomorrow for free. And when you came the next day, that inscription was still the same. I think there's a similar inscription on Gregorčič 25: tomorrow we begin. And that's not good for Slovenia. I believe that, with key documents, with key content, the government representatives should be united and those who should be politically representative and explain the content to all members of the National Assembly. The government, however, is of all citizens and citizens. She can't be political! Let me once again express my concern that I am looking at the commissions, the committees and here in Parliament, how you attach to what the Government is advocating, which is not the original work of the Government, because clear signals are coming – and this will eventually reflect more and more – that the government led by Borut Pahor, the government we see, is not working, but someone from the background. That's not good. It is necessary to make an end of this and, therefore, I invite you to reflect on this content that we are proposing, to complement and do something good for Slovenia; what Slovenians and Slovenians expect of us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u75	Mr. Vinko Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u76	Thank you very much. I have one problem at all times: they're arming me with information. And that seems very important to me. You have previously spoken, Mr Secretary of State, of what proceedings against bankruptcy managers are possible. The criminal procedure in a specific case led by the prosecution – I do not have permission to say against anyone – has shown that managers are not officials. That's what the court said. That managers aren't official. And what does that mean? Now, if we continue to do so, this means, in my opinion, a disaster. Amendment that law! Fill him up, help him, don't throw him away! There's another piece of information I just got. Last night's Omisje broadcast gave a speech on this – specifically by Mr Pliberšek from Celje – as he also knows Swiss systems and very clearly states that if someone does not pay subcontractors for the work done, the company goes bankrupt within 30 days. There's no forced settlement. She's not here. In bankruptcy, automatic! The second paragraph of the law, such a person for 10 years cannot set up a new company, nor can he co-owner of a company, not even in the smallest part, meaning he can only be a worker. So, if someone from some big-shot type of Zidar became just a "fr" for 10 years, that is, a "physical worker" or a worker, that's what they used to say, but they'd teach him the hell out of 10 years when he shouldn't start a company again, he'd get into a state that he'd never cheat again. That he'll never cheat again. These are also efforts, so I am informed, Minister Gaspari. I know or have been informed that Minister Gaspari is begging, begging, walking around Minister Zalar that this must be transferred to our legislation. But Minister Zalar opposes it. He's opposed to it. If he opposes this, then, at the final stage, depending on the state of this government, it will be ruled by those who have 900 votes – you know, 902, Katarina Kresal – and not those who have received 8 thousand as Mr Pahor. And given your minister's membership, it's almost clear who will be the winner. Minister. And not Gaspari, who belongs to those who have received much greater responsibility in previous elections. However, let me tell you that I would be very happy if an amendment were to be made to supplement this, or a law following the speedy procedure of the type of archive. Let's do, propose, if it is not possible to supplement this, if it is not possible to supplement this, please, by a rapid, urgent procedure, because the country is at risk because it is truly threatened from this point of view, bring the law and say that it will not set up a company for 10 years! Let's go to a night meeting, 3:00 in the morning, first, second, third reading, let's take it! Bring it! We will be very happy to support such a law. But for now, there's just never been a marriage like this before. Previously, you've talked about how creditors can't look at basic documentation, because there can be secrets and things like that, business secrets and so on. Look, it's also business secret that Mr Marinz made a deal with his company and ordered 180 000 euros or 40 salaries, as I said before, that's a business secret. If you're protecting this business secret, then thank you so much for such business secrets! For God's sake, let the worker have a look at this! Let the creditors have a look at this! Not only does a secretary spit out a contract, but he writes it in the form of an anonymous one. Let's officially write in the law that this is possible. Just for the end, once again the call, let’s go to a quick, urgent procedure or supplementation of this law — whatever you want, we will confirm. Let's make the most urgent session, and let's say that if you screw the company up like Zidar, Tobětov and everyone else, and so on, so that you don't say that I'm missing someone – let's make the most urgent session and accept it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u77	Mr. Bogdan Chapich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u78	Thank you so much for saying that. This, Mr Gorenak, what you have now said is that some things need to be done more effectively and in order to prevent the continuation of certain actions that naturally weaken this economy, this must of course be written in this part. But the proposal you're proposing doesn't talk about it. Nor is it possible to supplement it simply because you have not opened the articles that speak about it. If we both know the rules of procedure of this National Assembly, we know that this is extremely difficult. However, I agree with you that in this area things need to be complemented, make them more operational and more quality. But before, of course, you talked about some other things, how it brings some new value, or a new added value to it, and only three things, I'm going to go and compare the proposal you made with the state that is already in law. Very fast. In Article 1, you say: The Uprising Committee has the right to review the business books and the entire documentation relating to the bankruptcy procedure. 87. Article 87 of the existing law states that it deals with reports to be submitted by the administrator in accordance with the law and exercises the other powers laid down by the law. Within this, of course, one can ask who will do the appreciation, who will do the things, who will do the things, who will lead the things, and in what way. And then there can't be any cases that you've talked about not repeating them. Part two, when you say: On taking up his duties, the administrator shall make a statement before the court that he will faithfully and responsibly perform his duties. In Article 98, second paragraph: In the performance of its duties and responsibilities, the manager shall act in a fair and fair manner. That's what it says in there. And that is, of course, if it violates, even criminal. The vow someone makes, but it's a moral thing, so it doesn't mean criminal responsibility. But someone who breaks the law also means criminal responsibility. And last but not least, the proposal you have, who should be conducting disciplinary procedures, and who should be conducting disciplinary procedures on their own. Your suggestion is that the disciplinary commission, and this one thing alone, is called by the minister, I think it's a five-member or something. The existing law states that we have double, first and second degrees, that these are three-member commissions — in the existing law, I say — and two members, the president and one member of the types of judges dealing with insolvency are appointed by the Minister. Minister! So for all of these things, at both stage one and stage two, he has the ability to influence. And only an association, only as an interest association or as a Czech association, has one representative within it. And not least, to know how to run procedures within disciplinary activities and to pass this on to its members so that mistakes are not repeated. Therefore, of course, I say that the law itself does not bring any new value or added value in these parts. Of course, because I did not call earlier or comment on the claim made by some debaters that there is some connection between bankruptcy managers and the financing of political parties and that, of course, we are fighting. Yeah, those were claims, not you, specifically, but some of your colleagues. You may have some experience in this area. Maybe you know things like that. I have to say, I don't know about my client. If I knew that, of course I would. But you probably already have some experience talking about how and how this can be done. I hope, and I am sure that the current authorities are not using bankruptcy managers to finance their activities. I'd be very disappointed to find out that this is happening. But I'm not going to argue that once, when there was any other power, what didn't happen, it's because you've been repeating this thing a lot. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u79	Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u80	Thank you very much. Well, there are fairy tale creatures on this side who have done nothing wrong and find that nothing can be changed. We have an animal in Slovenia, especially in the Istrian region, who stands on all fours and doesn't move it, and some kind of special voice lets go. I can actually compare this government to that animal. For whatever we propose to move a positive measure, it is placed on four legs and says that it is unacceptable. Now I am asking a rhetorical question to any of you or to a ministerial reserve: Does this amendment represent any positive step forward in the procedures we are considering? Yes or no? If it represents a step forward in any of the areas listed by Comrade Gorenak, then it is unreasonable for him who stands up as awkwardly as that Istrian animal to not let it go forward and to accept the matter. But if necessary, we will also work out something else in this area. In fact, the bankruptcy manager has the full freedom to dispose of the property of those who lose 80%, 90% or all of it in these proceedings. Perfect freedom. The bankruptcy Senate, which it is, is more like the second stage of the Administrative Court in Ljubljana. And why do not those who have their belongings there claim their belongings or see justice? Is that a step forward or two steps back? Do those who are creditors in bankruptcy and who are left without five, seven wages have to pay extra fees for this matter? Is it now that we write that this goes into bankruptcy, that the cost of bankruptcy is this, step forward or step back for those in crisis already five, seven, nine months or more? It's like, uh, the Complaints and stuff. Is that a step forward or a step back? Is it, for example, when a bankruptcy manager makes a deal with himself, and we write that with a company with more than 5%, he cannot do so, step forward or step back? Are we preventing money laundering or are we encouraging it? Mr Secretary of State, you'll probably answer that. Is that a step forward or a step back? The Anti-Money Laundering Office in this area has found nothing yet. This is evident, what colleague Gorenak previously warned about, is money laundering if the bankruptcy manager himself and his company closes business and spills funds from bankruptcy to his company. Does this solution that we are proposing here mean a step forward or a step back? I want very clear answers. And I, too, am for what my colleague Marinic said, that what we can do today should not be postponed to tomorrow. From Saturday, to Sunday, to Monday, and today, Thursday, none of those big words of the clause happened. Today is an opportunity to answer this rhetorical question to allow us to go forward with this amendment of the law and, if necessary, with any other to settle those other things, Mr Chapič, which seem to you to be controversial. For two years now, we have been waiting and talking about how to deal with any of the bankruptcy issues! We had some discussions at the working bodies of the National Assembly and at the National Assembly, and nothing was done at this particular step. The wise government – the wise quiet. And it's obvious to you that your lobbying is in your best interest. The Lobos of bankruptcy managers are one of those who are extremely suitable for certain cases to happen in some cases, which are typically related to money laundering or double-counting of the same service. Did someone return the money to the bankruptcy and give it to those workers who had not previously received nine wages or ten? Nobody! And it's obvious that these lobbies are obviously politically very tightly covered by the ruling coalition. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u81	Mr. Secretary of State, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u82	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Now, whether it's a step forward or a step back, you'll probably understand yourself from what I'm going to say about what the suggestions on the table are. The fact that the bankruptcy manager has complete freedom and can do what he wants me to say is that he is responsible for his actions. Of course, someone must exercise indemnity, but this does not mean that he has full freedom — disregarding the judicial control exercised by the court. If the bankruptcy manager himself was spilling some of the resources, as you probably put it a little simplisticly, because it was not a spill, but it was a payment of some services, I have already said that we have a law governing integrity, and a law regulating this law also governs a conflict of interest. And the fact that this is regulated in another law does not mean that it is not regulated. The payment, in line with the effort, of the insolvency administrator’s payment, in line with the efforts to pay – thus was paid to the bankruptcy managers in the law in force in the 1990s. In the new law, the system is much clearer. There are no indeterminate notions of what it means, "in accordance with efforts". The payment is divided into three stages, each being limited by the amount, as such a change was adopted in this National Assembly. The first phase is an opening report, amounting to a maximum of EUR 10 000. The second stage after the completion of the claim test is up to EUR 20 000. The third phase, amounting to a maximum of EUR 50 000, after the completion of the division. The amount of this last part depends on the percentage of the payment, which means that the bankruptcy manager is being so stimulated as quickly as possible to work and to get as much pay as possible because it will be paid to the creditors; as more than the creditors will get, its reward will be higher. Around the indemnifications brought by the Member of Parliament, which he referred to, and which he had pointed out to the Minister, should be brought by compensation actions. Indemnities must be brought by those who are injured, who may claim compensation. With regard to the creditor committee, which we have talked about a lot or heard about the weakest, about the workers they do not have to live. Please, with all due respect to such people who have been in distress, there is also a creditors' committee in forcible settlement. There the rule is very clear about who is a member of the creditor committee: those whose claims are the highest, and these are not workers, because these claims must be in safety, the labour claims are a priority. So, we don't talk about workers when we talk about a board of creditors, at least not in a forced settlement. That's where we talk about the big players. Personally, I am not a person who would be led from behind, I am trying to understand things, as you yourself have said, and I am trying to make the solutions that I advocate are those that are in line with law, and those that will allow the rights of all to be exercised. Because I believe in the rule of law. This path is not easy, it is not straight and it is not simple, but it is essential if we want to live in a legal state. Therefore, I do not think that these changes on the table today will help to ensure that bankruptcy procedures run faster or more transparently, or that creditors achieve a better payment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u83	Thank you. This concludes the debate on the proposal for a conclusion that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, and we will decide, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting, today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 22. Agenda item — First draft of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Land Book Act. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Dr. Vinko Gorenak. With regard to this bill, a group of 27 Members and Members with the first-signed Jozet Tank requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the drafters of the law, Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u84	Thank you very much again. Mr Secretary of State, Members of Parliament, Members of Parliament! The law we discussed earlier, the so - called bankruptcy law, we did write in our parliamentary group. There will be a vote tonight. We will repeat the exercise because I think enough arguments have been made. But the law before us is the Law of the Land Book, and we have not written it. This law was written by the Ministry of Justice and today you will vote on the law of the Ministry of Justice and not on the law drafted by the SDS. Why do I say that? In fact, because of the bill we have discussed in the last months of last year, which was quite a long one, and then he has received a lot of praise from our side in the part where you continued your work in the coalition that we started, which means the electronicisation of the land book. This part of the law was commended and said that this was real progress, and we criticised the part of the law that made the Slovenians stupid. In fact, so far, citizens have been able to apply for land books themselves, and the law has said that no more, citizens, you are incompetent, you know nothing, but we will empower lawyers and notaries to do it for you. And instead of 12 euros, you're going to pay 100 to 200 euros, and we're going to give those 100 to 200 euros to lawyers and notaries. 300 people. The Chamber of Commerce talked about 30 million euros and calculate how much this is for everyone! This part of the law was criticized and said we couldn't support it. He gave us the State Council and said that marriage was wrong — veto. Finally, since only voices count, the second in this National Assembly does not count, although even in this National Assembly there is no human will, it died already in April of this year. The human will says that there are 90 Members here, that is also the Constitution, but we are 89 Members, and how many times do we adopt or reject, and because one voice is a difference, the fundamental question arises whether this law is valid or not, or whether it has a constitutional basis or not. But we rejected this law in the veto vote — and what did we do? We have only taken this law so that we do not anger the coalition – on the last two legs as Tanko said before – and we have brought on our tables, even on your tables, the same version, from A to Z is the same. No article has been amended! The exception is that we have renumbered and deleted some articles and that we have exempt from the law provisions that say that only lawyers and notaries can apply instead of stupid ones — because that is what the coalition said — Slovenians who do not know it can apply for land books. So, before us is the law that the state has already paid for - do you know how much? 64 thousand euros! You have paid from the budget of the country of Slovenia for this same text, which we now offer, 64 000 euros. You paid Dr. Nina Beach. Since I wanted to know what she deserved, the minister told me nothing. He sent me an official copy. But when I continued to drill, he admitted that it was not him, but it was the Supreme Court; and it was, yes. So, for the marriage that's here, you've already paid 64 thousand euros. It's only right to support him. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u85	Thank you. For an introductory explanation of the opinion of the Government, I give the floor to Mr State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice, Boštjan Škrlec. Please, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u86	Dear Vice-President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament, a nice greeting. We are talking again about the Land Book Act, which has been dealt with several times in this House. This time, investors are a group of Members with the first-signed Mr Vinko Gorenak. The proposal largely summarises the solutions contained in the proposal for the amendment of the ZZK-1, which was put forward by the Government at its 89th regular meeting in June 2010, and which was voted by the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia at its 34th meeting on 8 December, after the elected veto of the State Council, and has not been adopted again. In the course of this legislative process, the basic objectives contained in this proposal have been supported. The introduction of a new way of writing into the main book of the Land Book, which further reflects the content of real estate relations, the comprehensive informationisation of all procedures relating to the decision-making and introduction of the computerised collection of documents are highly welcome objectives that will certainly contribute both to a more up-to-date and transparent land book. That's why such an initiative can be welcome. However, despite good intentions, the bill contains internal non-compliances which cannot be remedied even through the preparation of appropriate amendments during the legislative process. Some of the provisions are directly contrary to the objectives pursued by the law. It has certainly been our wish that, during the legislative procedure with the joint amendments, the draft law should be amended accordingly and made systemically coherent and operational, but unfortunately this cannot be regulated by the articles which are not supported by the law and cannot therefore be amended in this legislative procedure, nor can they be amended in the course of the legislative procedure. Why is that? The applicant does not take into account that the amendment of the Land Book A Act, which was adopted in April 2008, introduced a general local competence for investing and deciding in land-booking procedures – this competence is mentioned in a whole series of articles – and explicitly introduced the possibility of submitting electronic land-book proposals as a qualified investor as defined in Article 140a. Since it was estimated that it would take approximately two years to produce and introduce new information solutions, in 2009, the ZZK amendment, i.e. the Land Book B Act, the entry into force of those new rules of land-book law, which were supplemented or amended by novel A, relating to the submission of electronic land-book proposals and the abolition of local jurisdiction to decide on land-book proposals, was postponed to 1 May 2011. The competent institutions of the Supreme Court and the Ministry have initiated preparations for the introduction of new information solutions to support land-book contributions and the management of procedures and the management of the land-book in the second half of March 2009. The new online application is already ready, and we need only an appropriate, normative basis, as outlined by novels A and B; however, this normative basis is not fully secured by the proposal on your tables today, so the Government proposes that you do not support this proposal today because it introduces internal imbalances and conflicts with the existing order. As you know, there is also a new amendment to this law B in the process, which, in our view, eliminates this internal disharmony to a better extent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u87	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr. Andrej Magajna has the floor. He's not here. Mr Rezman, if you please, you will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Well, the changes in the past concerning the procedures relating to land accounting have been appropriate, good and have also had good consequences, as regards greater accessibility, with regard to the reduction of procedures, with regard to greater legal certainty and what would be the case, including the proposals for documents that we are considering. It is perfectly logical that the Government wanted to upgrade what was good already in place and therefore proposed a bill last year, which also produced a number of solutions supported by the group of unrelated Members of the Solidarity Group. We supported what matters of increasing the speed of proceedings, we supported what, according to the proposaler, the evaluation of the procedures, in particular, we supported full information that makes all of this possible. However, we had already opposed some of the provisions in our parliamentary group, and we also supported some of the amendments proposed at the time; in particular those who tried to remedy the weakness that spoke of being a very narrow circle of those who are entitled to make land-book proposals. The question is, what would happen if these amendments were adopted then? And we can only guess, or then maybe it wouldn't be veto. If it had not been vetoed, if such a law had been supplemented by the proposed amendments, it would not have been adopted, nor would it have passed the re-voting test in the re-vote. In particular, this question is likely to be justified if we now find that the two proposals currently under way are largely or largely in favour of these amendments. So when we talk about both proposals, about what the Group of Members has proposed and about what the Government has proposed and which we will discuss, the shortcomings of last year's bill are trying to remedy. Thus, the question that is repeatedly asked whether it makes sense may sometimes be called the attitude of the applicants not to give up even when it would be good for them to disregard the positive and well-intentioned amendments, the proposals, so such an attitude is sometimes avenged by the procedures and the wearing of the hats we now have and we have to spread it in some way. The fundamental objectives are the same in all three bills. The principles are the same in all three laws. The solutions are almost identical in all three laws. In principle, it is about who should make these land-book proposals or who should no longer have them. In the Group of Non-Aligned Members, we believe, after reading what the Council of Justice has also said, that the Government will have to be very convincing with its assertion that amendments in the process below cannot be corrected and that if we do not correct them, the system will function worse than it has worked so far. Otherwise, we will support this bill. In particular, because it is applying what we have been supporting in last year alone and what is also taken into account in the new proposal for a law prepared by the Government. It is also interesting to note that when we read the position of the Council of Justice, it is noted that the Council of Justice supports both proposals of law, but none at all. And that he has more concerns about the government proposal; so, mathematically speaking, he has exactly one hundred percent more concerns. And today it will have to be very convincing in the long debate that is likely to follow, the Government will have to work very hard and sweat to convince us that the adoption of this bill, which we are talking about today, would make the situation as we now have it significantly worse, and that it is in a systemic sense so incongruous that it cannot be fixed. And even if this happens, if it convinces us to do so, we will not oppose this law for the sake of that, because its intention is largely the same as the intensification of our comments and the intensities of what it proposes now after the new government. The relationship of the group of unrelated Members to this proposal is therefore positive. And when we read many of the concerns that the Government has written in its opinion and that we think they are somehow, I would say a more benign character when it comes to misapplication, about unreasonable deadlines when it comes to the fact that someone can define a different explanation. Such things can still be resolved or brought into line with the relevant amendments in the process. What seems to us to be crucial to the Government is that this proposal, proposed by the Group of Members and Members, in fact, changes the way in which the land book proposals are written, in a way that, according to our judgment, this would be better for those who propose, and, of course, worse for the courts, because it imposes new tasks on them and because, as the Government itself says, financial resources are not foreseen. If the court receives new tasks and new powers and if this improves the process and if this is better for the parties in particular, then it is necessary to ensure that the appropriate staffing and financial resources are also provided so that what is better can also be achieved. So a group of unrelated Members will listen to the debate and are inclined to continue, improve and accept the process so that we can all support it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u89	Thank you. Mr Anton Kolarič will present the views of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u90	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The Land Book Act, which did not receive the relevant majority at the end of 2010, followed the 2003 Land Book Act, and these amendments and additions to the Land Book have been aimed at accelerating and simplifying the registration process in the Land Book in recent years and thereby increasing the legal security of individuals, if you want, including citizens and citizens, in legal traffic with real estate. Ways have been sought to rationalise the conduct of the courts with regard to the decision-making of the entries in the Land Book. There were also solutions to how to use information technology that would safely and quickly reduce the number of administrative tasks in the entry. Efforts have also gone in the direction of reducing the cost of enrollment in the land book, which is particularly important. Today's amendment to the Land Book Act does not, in our opinion, follow these original objectives of regulating the land book, especially we cannot support the position of the applicants when, on behalf of the applicants, Dr. Gorenak said that nothing has been changed, only something deleted and renumbered. Of course, we cannot support this and we will not support this amendment in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u91	Thank you. Ms Eva Irgl will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u92	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Presidents, Members and Members of Parliament! In the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we are clearly aware that there must be legislative changes in the field of state administration and justice in the direction of as much efficiency as possible and easier access to the services that practically every citizen needs. This is particularly necessary under the conditions of the deteriorating financial situation of people. That is why, in our previous consideration of the amendment to the Land Book Act, which was put into the procedure by the Government, we opposed the law at that time. We objected because, in addition to some good solutions, such as the comprehensive informationisation of land-booking procedures, the Government in some way also underlined the solution which, as eligible investors of land-book proposals, excluded citizens and municipalities and other communities of local self-government and determined the mandatory investment of land-booking deposits through the property of notaries and lawyers. In doing so, he predicted about EUR 30 million in earnings. Therefore, in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members, we are pleased that the veto of the Council of State has succeeded in this law and, consequently, the collapse of the law. In the law that we now have before us and which we have tabled in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, we preserve what was good in the previous government law, which is, as has already been said, a comprehensive informationisation of land-book procedures. However, provisions have been added that applications for entry into the Land Book may be submitted by individuals or legal persons, as well as lawyers and notaries, provided that such an option is decided by individuals. The essential amendments are proposed in Article 34, which adds new 125a to Article 125d. That Article provides, however, that a land policy proposal may be submitted by anyone in any district court. However, the Court shall, upon receipt of the Land Book Proposal, convert it into an electronic form and keep it in a register of documents and confirm it by means of its secure electronic signature and shall be deemed to have confirmed the receipt of the Land Book Proposal by means of a certificate of receipt by means of its secure electronic signature. When this is done, the court shall only ensure that the original contract is transmitted to the collection of documents to the competent district court. There are several new articles in this law and they regulate electronic service, written service of letters and the management of electronic file. Although new electronic technologies also make these solutions difficult at first sight, it must be said that the general and technical culture of Slovenians is at such a level that we rightly preserve the rights of citizens after the self-investment of land-books. Of course, as a self-evident assumption, we also assume that the judicial administration is obliged to assist in the implementation of the deposits. The bill and the proposed solutions thus prevent underestimation and unnecessary financial exhaustion. With these solutions, we also prevent segregation between citizens to those who are rich who can provide themselves with quality legal services and, of course, to average citizens who cannot do so. Such laws and solutions must also prevent the introduction of a system of two legal states and ensure the validity of constitutional principles, such as equality before the law and the principle of trust in law. We are also open to proposals in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, as well as to improve the law if these solutions go in the direction of both efficiency and simplicity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u93	Thank you. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u94	Thank you for your word, chairman. Have a nice hello to you all again! Given the great agreement that we have been able to hear about the main purposes not only of this novel of the Land Book Act, but also of those on our desks before it, it is a shame that we have not been able to find agreement in the previous consideration of this topic in order to also resolve legislation in a satisfactory way for everyone to experience sufficient support. On the other hand, these new proposals already tabled – not only those we are talking about today, but also those already in the legislative procedure – give us the opportunity to adopt an even improved text of this law. We also follow the principle of simplifying, shortening and cheapening the procedures for users of the Land Book, because we find it difficult to agree with the excessive statements of the Economic Chamber and, of course, the flat-rate and false estimates of the price increases of these services for users, as some forerunners have estimated. And, of course, at the same time, increase legal certainty in real estate transactions and we have seen in this light also, we will say, the introduction of the institute of notariat or the legal profession, which are ultimately the constitutional category of this country and part of the same and only legal order that we have here. The facts in practice say that the majority of people who submit any land-book proposals are already advertised in the notary; if nothing else is to confirm their signature on a sales contract or anything else, because we are all aware that these transactions are so sensitive that nothing harms if we get any legal advice along with them, and so on, a few things can be arranged in one place. Of course, if anyone wanted — and such obvious will was expressed in some of the opinions of our parliamentary group — to do so alone, he could still do so. For this reason, we ourselves wanted to remain in law for at least three years in coordination with the previous version of the Land Book Act, when interested parties could still submit their proposals to the courts, and today this solution seems wise, and ultimately this solution, which is also provided for in the bill on our table, which is on this three-year period, to say so, continues indefinitely, we agree with it. But to return to electronics, which probably none of us doubts that it brings a variety of benefits from the experience we have, such as through the practice of administrative units, where we can order our ID card at any administrative unit. Similarly, we can conclude that a similar network of land books and courts would also make life easier for many of us. These principles, as we have heard, are also advocated by colleagues in the opposition, but unfortunately so far we have not found a common language in the practical implementation of these solutions, and there is no consensus. Some of the dilemmas that have already been heard in the previous version of the paper on the Land Book remain with the proposed amendment to the Land Book Act, which, following the collapse of the previous novel due to the veto of the State Council, was quickly submitted by members of the SDS, led by Vinko Gorenak. We understand, of course, in some way the need for political prestige to put the law into effect as soon as possible and to collect some credit for it. It is, however, repugnant because mistakes are also being made with haste and it is fair to say that there has been some shortcomings in this law, unfortunately, so there have been some shortcomings, especially on the implementation side: I must also say that we have concerns in our parliamentary group about some of the solutions brought by the government proposal, which is also in the legislative procedure. Given the nature of our work, of course, it would be best if we could make a hybrid proposal out of these two proposals, a hybrid law that could also be corrected by amendments, in our opinion, to the extent that it is acceptable to all. As has already been said, because of the commotion or, if you want, political calculus and the desire to please here has been hasty and therefore the result cannot be what it might be. As has already been acknowledged by the representative of the proposers of this amendment, this law is a copy of a copy of a copy of a copy of a government copy of the procedure, as well as a copy of the Devil's detail, similar to that of the president of the largest opposition party. The details are what has been deleted and which articles have not been opened. This is the 34th article of this novel, which differs significantly from that of the government original that we discussed at the end of last year. It is envisaged that a land policy proposal may be submitted by anyone in any district court. As is known, the previous amendment provided that such proposals could only be submitted electronically by notaries, lawyers and in some cases lawyers. But what is now being proposed sounds good and we support ourselves at the substantive level. The fact is, however, that in this fully computerised electronic land book, the question is whether the proposed method of direct investment is feasible in practice. The article I mentioned, paragraph 34, provides that all writings in the land-booking procedure shall be returned electronically to their secure electronic mailbox. What to do if the person who did so in a certain district court does not have a secure electronic mailbox, but does not appear in the proposal. This, as has already been said in the presentation of the opinion of the group of unrelated Members, may not be such a big problem and could be resolved later. It should be borne in mind, however, that the current Land Book Act also contains transitional provisions that expire in May this year. In theory, of course, we can say that we will be amending this law twice by May this year, given that it is in the ordinary process and another novel that follows, even in the regular process, and in view of the pace at which we are able to accept smart solutions and compromises in this National Assembly, each of us can answer whether or not all sub-legal acts and everything necessary for implementation will be carried out by May of this year. In short, that's one of the problems. We see another one in this proposal. According to the proposed arrangements, only the original shall have the status of an electronic decision signed by the competent land register clerk or a judge with a secure electronic signature. They have no physical conclusions and cannot have such qualities anymore. The bill ignores this fact and, if we are very precise, the opinion of the Council of Justice disregards this fact that the previous amendment of the Land Book Act has in fact abolished local jurisdiction. However, in the transitional provisions, and this is precisely what I was talking about, the implementation of this Article of the law has stalled. I don't know if in the Council of Justice they're not experts in this area of legislation, but things like local jurisdiction do not really know our legislation anymore. However, we understand some emotional attachment of people and the belief that it is only the local authority that can be trusted in these real estate matters. In short, the proposal for a law is a fact that decisions in physical form no longer have the characteristics of the original, disregarding. The bill does not take into account certain provisions of the applicable Land Book Act, such as the provisions governing the registration and the availability of an indication of the order, or if I say otherwise, if you have invested something in the physical form so far at the local competent court and it can be clearly seen, and you have stood in line with someone who wanted to book, say, a mortgage on the same thing that you wanted to book the mortgage on, it was clear that if it was previously on its turn, the mortgage would be entered first, but if you still have the same reasons for it. Now that things are electronic, of course each of these, second, third notary, which, for example, has a faster electronic connection, will be able to do so earlier. But you who stand in line in court and wait for the official hours to pass, or they start to pass lunch, but you wait for it for free. We cannot say here that legal certainty is the same for all citizens and therefore another thought needs to be made. There are also inconsistencies about the preservation of the originals of the documents and so on, as mentioned as one of the positive things that, for example, is preserved and known by other countries of the German acquis, which know a similar system about the land book as we know it. It is true that you can make a proposal in any court. However, it is not necessary that this proposal of yours will also be dealt with in this court, because, for the sake of electronicity and for the purpose of optimizing, this part of the work that needs to be done will be made available electronically to that court which has less work to do. That's where the trial file will open. Here it is in connection with the question that I previously raised, the principles, the local competences, it is difficult to determine which court is where things are supposed to be kept. It might be worth considering that, by example, transport legislation, when we somehow authorised the Higher Court in Celje to be a second-degree court of appeal, should also apply in Slovenia to determine one of the courts which should be the one to keep these matters. That we don't still have 44 archives that won't be centralised now, but there won't be a proper review, but it might be in one of the courts just in case, in addition to things that will be stored electronically, that there will be physical documents for those who want it. This is not legally binding. Even now, optionally each of us can go looking for the original real estate documents that he owns, and the land books no longer keep them. And it's been so practically a good decade. So blindly believing that all things in physical form are already in the earthly book is illustrative. It hasn't been like this for ten years. In short, we regret that we have not been able to wait for the introduction of these laws and an agreement that would allow for a hybrid law, so we cannot support the good solutions of the proposed law. A marriage like that would be disabled. It seems more reasonable for us to wait for a government proposal to come into play, to which we have substantive concerns, and we have already expressed them, and I have also mentioned them to you today, because that proposal can be amended to the extent that such good proposals in this law that are before us today are taken into account, but the government proposal does not contain them, nor does it contain a more accurate implementation that the current proposal does not know but does the government. In this way, the Group of Members will indeed consider this proposal to be inappropriate for further consideration, and I repeat, we will try to include its good contents in the Government's proposal, which is already on the agenda of the National Assembly, to the best extent possible and with your help. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u95	Thank you. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u96	Dear Members, Members, representatives of the government! The amendments and additions to the Land Book Act will still be open to much discussion, as there is another similar law still on the agenda in addition to the current legislative proposal in the parliamentary procedure. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are aware of the importance of the changes in this area and support solutions aimed at establishing the legal basis for the comprehensive informationisation of land-booking procedures. The introduction of IT follows the objectives of simplifying court cases and seeks to rationalise the functioning of the courts. In short, with the current technological progress and IT capabilities, it makes sense to adapt the administrative apparatus as well. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, it is essential that the new law does not provide for explicit monopolization of the submission of land-book proposals by notaries and lawyers, as envisaged by the preliminary draft law, which was not confirmed by the National Assembly at the beginning of December, but also by the Slovenian People's Party. While our thinking does not go in the direction of citizens making their own motions, it is more important that the possibility of investing also be maintained in public services. Thus, in the future, all local communities and other entities, especially municipal administrations, which are professionally and technically qualified for these tasks, must still have the opportunity to independently submit land-book proposals. However, to those citizens who are not themselves technically capable of carrying out the procedure for the electronic submission of land-book proposals, we will allow them to submit proposals directly to the District Court or through the Ombudsman. In many municipalities, they now prepare and invest their own land book proposals, and if this is no longer possible, this has to do with certain inconsequential additional costs. According to the Slovenian People's Party's Group, the problems of incomplete land-book proposals, including incomplete land-booking documents, will not solve the full professionalisation of the process, but rather the regulation of the time frame for the submission of applications for entry. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we hope that more will be done at the time of the verification of the Land Book Charter and the application for entry into the Land Book. The legal arrangements could follow the idea that the entry proposed under the Land Book Charter and, for that reason, the notary, the lawyer or the authorising officer, the signature of the person allowing the entry shall be signed without delay. After the notary has signed on the document submitted, he has verified or has drawn up a document in the form of a notary record. Such an arrangement is not new, since it is already used in the case of mortgage insurance by banks and works quite flawlessly. Such an arrangement, allowing certain procedural exceptions, would in fact end the procedure in most cases for the parties. The submission of land-book proposals currently allows for the possibility of timely adaptation of entries to the interests of one of the parties, which makes the land-book unhurry, while sometimes delaying entry indefinitely. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also draw attention to the opinion of the Council of Justice, which points to several shortcomings in the proposed amendment to the law, which concerns the legal security of citizens, in particular, in the elimination of local jurisdiction and land registers. We propose that a slightly more appropriate solution be found in further consideration of the law. According to the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, it is reasonable to send the draft law for further consideration. After all, it is essentially following those basic objectives or improvements, which are also sought by the profession and can be further developed and improved. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u97	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u98	Thank you for your word. Mr Vice President, representatives of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! We have recently decided in this Chamber to amend the provisions of the law governing the land book, the methods of registration and other procedures and the consequences of the changes in the facts in this public book. This led to a broad discussion on content such as: the introduction of a way of entering the main book of the Land Book, which consistently reflects the content of real estate relations in accordance with the rules of the Real Law Code, the comprehensive informationisation of the registration decision-making processes and the introduction of an informationised collection of documents, which today, at the time of the proposal under consideration, represent the main objectives of the amendment. I must admit, on behalf of the entire DeSUS Group, that most of the solutions proposed for us are fully acceptable. We also agree, in principle, with that part concerning qualified investors of land-book proposals and other applications. This particular issue was the apple of the dispute at the time of the previous hearing and also the main reason that the law after the veto was imposed was not supported. In view of the fact that the law rejected was in principle appropriate, the differences and concerns were only in the work relating to qualified applicants, a proposal for a amendment to this law was drafted, whose signatory is also our leader on behalf of the entire DeSUS Group. This joint proposal of Members represents a consensus on previously controversial matters, and therefore the DeSUS Members will, of course, defend our proposal for a law. However, I assure you that this is by no means the only reason why we will renounce the support of the law now under consideration in the Group of Members. After reviewing this text, we have concluded that the latter contains quite a few inconsistencies, nomotechnic errors, unreasonable deadlines for the application of the law, which certainly does not support possible support. For all of this we will vote against the conclusion that this bill is suitable for further consideration by the Members of the DeSUS. At the close consideration of our solutions, which are practically seeking the same goals, we expect the applicants to have a constructive debate and a reasonable decision in order to ensure effective and optimized information on the land book, to ensure greater legal certainty in this area and to ensure more friendly, faster and rational land-book procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u99	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the views of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u100	Thank you for your word. Hello, everyone gathered in the hall! The Group of Members submitted to the National Assembly for consideration a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Land Book Act. The draft law summarises, to a large extent, the solutions contained in the proposal for the Land Book Act, which was transmitted by the Government of the Republic of Slovenia in the legislative procedure and which the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia held at its 34th extraordinary session. 12. 2010 after the voted veto of the National Council of the Republic of Slovenia re-decisiond and did not accept it. In the course of this legislative process, the basic objectives contained in this proposal have been supported. The introduction of a new way of writing into the main book of the Land Book, which further reflects the content of real estate real estate relations, the comprehensive informationisation of all business processes in relation to the decision-making and introduction of a computerised collection of documents are most welcome objectives, which will certainly contribute to a more up-to-date and transparent land book. This is why Members' initiative to regulate this area is most welcome. However, despite good intentions, the bill contains internal inconsistencies which cannot be remedied during the legislative process. Some provisions are also directly contrary to the objectives pursued by the law. The new Article 125a of the draft law thus provides that a land book proposal may be submitted by anyone in any district court. After receipt of the Land Book Proposal, the Court shall convert it into an electronic form and keep it in a register of documents and confirm its receipt by means of its secure electronic signature and shall be deemed to have confirmed the receipt of the Land Book Proposal by means of a certificate of receipt by means of its secure electronic signature. The Court shall only ensure that the original contract is forwarded to a collection of documents to a competent district court. This means that a land policy proposal can directly be submitted by anyone in any court and that the court is only obliged on the basis of a written proposal to convert or draw up an electronic proposal and then send the documents by ordinary or recommended mail to the local competent court. However, if we read precisely Article 46 of the draft law, or Article 142 of the Law on Land Book 1, this applies only to private documents, as the bill does not regulate the electronic conversion of other instruments which are the basis of the land-book proposal. At first glance, the proposed solution seems good, but already after a short analysis and a more accurate reading of this provision it is possible to see problems and inconsistencies. The solution offered by Article 125a is contrary to the concept of the abolition of local jurisdiction already established by the amendment of the Land Book Act 1A and the application of these provisions is postponed until 1 May 2011 by the amendment of the Land Book Act 1B. Therefore, the proposed arrangement under the first paragraph to ensure that the original contract is referred to a collection of documents to a competent district court is not systematically compatible. The arrangements may also give rise to ambiguities as to whether the court to which the instrument is transmitted is competent to decide the case or whether its function is merely the preservation of that instrument. It should also be noted that the proposal for a law in this Article imposes new tasks on the courts, which are not properly evaluated in the context of the assessment of the financial implications of the draft law on the State budget and other public funds. The fundamental objective of the judicial information project, led by the Supreme Court of the Republic of Slovenia, is quite the opposite – the introduction of comprehensive information is followed by simplification of court cases and an attempt to rationalise court operations. However, the proposed regulatory solution does not follow this objective, as it imposes new tasks on the courts, the conversion of documents, the composition of an electronic proposal, the physical transmission of documents to the competent courts and so on. The basic objective of the bill is to reduce costs and administrative work of the courts by means of IT, but not to set new tasks. This also certainly cannot achieve the central objective of this amendment, reducing the decision-making time for the land book proposal. Informational capabilities, if properly used, can have a very strong impact both on time and on the very cost of doing business, so it makes sense to make use of all their positive properties to the end. The informationisation of integrated business should not be intended for itself, but should aim at results that are reflected in the faster functioning of courts and greater accessibility for citizens. It may be worth mentioning that, as early as 2003, when the applicable Land Book Act was adopted, they were looking for ways to rationalise the conduct of the courts regarding the decision to enter the Land Book. As a result, the provisions of Articles 33 to 38 of the Land Book Act, the specific provisions on the authorisation of land registers, were specific. It is therefore logical that the solutions offered by the IT capabilities should indeed be used to the fullest extent and that we should continue to take a step forward in the process of rationalising the Court's business and in the court by reducing administrative tasks to the informationisation account and by means of a new procedure allowing them to focus in particular on the judicial decision on the content of the matter. In the first paragraph of the proposed Article, Article 125 of the electronic service provides that the beneficiaries of all writings in the land-booking procedure shall be served electronically in their safe electronic mailbox. The proposed regulation therefore means that the eligible applicant will have to open a secure electronic drawer in order to obtain a decision on registration when submitting a landscaping proposal or in the application submitted directly to the court. Article 125c of the draft law provides for the possibility of giving written service to participants who are not parties to a procedure which is not a court or other State authority referred to in Article 125b of this Law and who are not represented by a notary, a lawyer or a public defender in the proceedings, but may give rise to an interpretational dilemma as to whether the eligible applicant is always and only in an electronic drawer, whereas the written service is provided for only for other participants in the land-use proceeding which are not a court or other State authority and are not represented by the person referred to in Article 125c, paragraph 1. Furthermore, the proposal of the law requires notaries, lawyers and lawyers to receive electronic letters relating to the land-booking procedure, but does not lay down any grounds and rules on the basis of which notaries, lawyers and lawyers themselves electronically submit land-book proposals as representatives of the beneficiaries of the applicants, paragraph 125(b) of the third paragraph. What about the documents if the notary submits an electronic landscaping proposal – it can turn them into electronic forms, it has to bring them to court – what if the lawyer submits an electronic proposal? These questions, or the situation of the bill, are not answered. 125th Article – management of electronic file. Article 125(1) provides that the file shall be kept as an electronic file. A decision or other writing in a land-booking procedure shall be issued in an electronic original signed by a competent land-book clerk or a judge with a secure electronic signature certified with a qualified certificate. The Centre for Informatics must ensure that certificates of deposit of written consignments in landscaping procedures are converted into electronic form and submitted to an electronic file. As indicated in the recital, the basic objective of the bill is to provide comprehensive information on all decision-making processes relating to the decision-making of the entry. Article 125(1) therefore provides that the file shall be kept as an electronic file. The second paragraph of that Article provides, however, that a decision or other writing in a land-booking procedure shall be issued in an electronic original signed by a competent land-book clerk or a judge with a secure electronic signature certified by a qualified certificate. According to the proposed arrangement, only the original shall have the status of an electronic decision signed by the competent land register clerk or a judge with a secure electronic signature. Decisions in physical form do not and cannot have such characteristics, the proposal for a law of this fact does not take into account or disregard certain provisions of the applicable Law on Land Book 1, whose changes should also be proposed as a result of the different operations of the court. More specifically, it is the provisions governing the registration and the availability of an indication of the order of the order, provided for in Articles 68 to 67 of the Land Book Act. The current regulation, which is not amended by the proposal for a law, is adapted to the issue of a physically certified removal of the original of the decision authorising entry in writing. The eligible applicant shall have a marked order, with a transfer of the tradition of the decision authorising this marking. However, the draft law provides in the above-mentioned Article that the decision authorising entry shall be issued in electronic form. Therefore, it is not possible to apply the applicable rules of the Law in Book 1 in order to have the order marked so far in place by transferring the tradition of the certified abolition of the decision authorising this registration, which means that there is a question of how these provisions of the law will work in practice. In view of the fact that the draft law does not in any way amend the above-mentioned articles of the Land Book Act, it is not possible to amend them or adapt them to the other rules of the proposed law below the legislative procedure. Article 46, dealing with the instruments annexed to the Land Book Proposal. The proposed article only provides for the procedure of the court when it comes to the original private documents, while not allowing them to be lodged in any other way. The non-systematicity of the bill under consideration is also reflected in the regulation of the collection of documents. Article 125a indirectly states that the collection of documents shall always be kept and maintained in the physical form of the court on which the property lies. This provision is in direct contravention of Article 66 of the draft law, the amendment of Article 194 of the Law on Land Book 1, which provides that the collection of documents shall be kept as a computerised collection of documents containing documents relating to land-booking procedures, i.e. electronic original decisions allowing the registration to be legally permitted, and in electronic form of a converted instrument which was the basis for the authorisation of entry, in relation to land-booking procedures initiated after 14 November 2010. Thus, the draft law does not contain internal compatible provisions, since it governs only an electronic collection of documents, although Article 125a states that there is also a physical collection of documents. Certainly, from a professional point of view, the management of a double collection of documents is not rational and prudent. The proposal for a law in several places also contains incorrect references and unreasonable deadlines for the application of certain provisions of the bill. For these and other reasons, which will continue to be exposed to the legislative process, we will not support the proposal in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, and we hope that the Government will prepare a new law as soon as possible, taking into account all the comments that have been made both at the time of today's debate and at the time of the adoption of the first law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u101	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Mrs. Cveta Zalokar Orazem – is not, Mr. Zanoškar – is not, Mr Magajna – is not, Mr. Franco Juri – is not, Mr Petan. Here you go. You have the floor. But get ready, Mr. Grill, if there's no Keka and Urha.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u102	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Your Honor! So, as mentioned at the outset, this law has a different framework. Most of the law is literally copied by the Government – and I hope they will not accuse us of plagiarism – because their previous law did not survive the whole process. But we added what we thought was the main issue. This is said to simplify the entry into the land book and to allow Slovenia and Slovenians easier access to enrollment in the land book and what is particularly important at this time is that it is cheap. Of course, the Government, by means of the law it sent to the procedure, wanted to monopolize the entry into the land book and seal it cecholy; and this is a power that has a very high level of protection in this government and has a high priority for the provision of new business, and that is monopolistic business. For what the Government has proposed is obviously a very good, well-paid monopoly deal. All that was said about setting tariffs is essentially "blah blah", because there is another provision that, if the parties agree directly, it is said: notar and the lawyer is a client, but it can be any price. Any notary who, apparently, – I suppose – learns about legislation and marriage holes will, of course, take this into account and will "slowly pull" again from a citizen who wants to enter the land book. Indeed, under the law of the previous government, which we are also defending, every citizen can also register in the land book, of course at a well-established procedure and at a very low price. This, of course, clearly disturbed the Government and this virtue, which has seen here an extraordinary opportunity, notaries and lawyers to draw their pot, like it everywhere it was, and this government has very great hearing for them. We have seen some of this in the law that we have dealt with before, but we have said enough about it. That is why we have failed the government's dispossession after this, in fact, taken over those solutions that are good, that is the electronicisation of the land book, the entry and the like; that of course we are taking over, and we have added that the notaries and lawyers, as the Government has always said, can also register, and that citizens and citizens can continue to do this business themselves if they want to. This is said in no way to deny what the Government has prepared and what has been good and what the Government has done too quickly; the electronics programme and the whole process have carried out and paid millions of euros for it, despite the fact that there has not yet been a law, which can be asked after the health of someone and at the responsibility of someone – but, well. Because, at the final stage, we assume that this program is good because it was ready, so we somehow took it down and saved the government so that it wouldn't have any trouble with any unpleasant questions, why it did it, even though the law had not yet been in force. However, we want to continue to provide citizens with quick, easy access and cheap access, in accordance with the rules that apply. With this, of course, we also saved the lady and the Government who agreed together to draft the law and get 64 000 euros for it. We also apparently went to the government with this, and it is therefore very surprising to us that the government is now practically opposed to its law. Of course, there's a lot of excuses: there's nothing new about not getting rid of anything. It is said that everything that we suggest is that the insistence that the law is inconsistent, that you have prepared it and paid 64 000 euros, and that now, at the same time, the internal nonconsistence is that it is not a suitable basis for further consideration and that the government will write a better one will propose its own. In fact, this means that it is monopolised, as I have already said, by entering into a land book that has suddenly become a business, rather than being a process to make property quickly settled, because this means, to some extent, a bar of economic development can also happen; if something is not solved, practically nothing can happen, and this is clearly seen, but you are not involved in economic development, it is one way or another. And that the solutions proposed by the Government continue to rob or rob Slovenian citizens and citizens. Finally: all of a sudden, there is talk of trust in politics and in general. It tries to prove itself as if politics has failed, as if politics has no confidence, but silence one essential detail, and this little thing is that trust in politics is really waning, but forget to say: in the ruling. Because if someone is "infused" in the political field, the government is "infuriating" her! I mean, who else?Oh, my God! If people hate something — or hate it — it is that they are told one thing, but it is done another. It is said that this will not be done because it will be valued or that shadows will be extolled, and more expensive bills will come next week, higher price rates. Well, that's something you can look at when you get to the facts, and the court says you can't look at yourself. This was the case with the previous law. It's a deception, and people see it in time. It's been two years so long that people can see that they're being "painted" that they're being lied to and that something can't be right. That's why people don't trust ruling politicians. The ruling politicians don't believe! They don't believe you, because the policy that is at this moment – I'm not talking about a specific person, but generally – in an important function today, he declares this and in 14 days he has to demente himself, because the documents show him otherwise. How, then, should people believe such a policy? But not now to mix the whole. People don't believe you, and that's the case with this marriage. How can they trust you to trust you, but if you want the subscription service to the land book to be 10 times more expensive? How can such politicians be trusted? People expect that the government will help them to make things easier for them, to make life easier for them. It's already too expensive, and then it's gonna be too hard, and then that last toll that we got somewhere to make it — no, even one of his lobes would have picked it up! And the legislation would have made that possible. And this is a typical example of robbing citizens and citizens in order to give money to a lobby. I am not saying that everyone in that lobby is corrupt, that is not true, but obviously those who have the dominant word in the government and in this lobby do: the last toll is to be poured out to citizens and citizens. This is said to support our proposal because it takes into account what was good in the proposal prepared by the Government, it is electronicity, informationisation, that is, faster decoupling; for on the Ljubljana land book – if it still holds, I do not know – some procedures are still going on for five years. In the land book of five years, one thing — it is a disaster for development and for progress! Then it is necessary to enable faster work and that part of the government proposal has gone in this direction, if it will only be implemented, then it is okay, and we have kept it. However, the fact that citizens come to this service faster and cheaper, we represent it all the time and put it in this proposal. And look if they hold this data, at least a while ago they held that for some entries in the land book in central Slovenia it is necessary to wait 5 years – look at what is a better solution for this than for citizens to register! You don't have to wait five years to get some red tape out there, if you don't want to work, doesn't want to work, or can't work, or has too much work to let someone else do the job and the citizens do it themselves. No! No! You are complaining about how much work they have on the land book, five years to wait or three years, and do not let the citizens handle it on their own! That's the logic of it! And that's why citizens don't believe in ruling politics, which is the point. And if it's any more visible than here that you don't let the citizens get things straightened out, it's here. And that's why we've prepared this law and we're putting it in the process. Now, in the end, I'm gonna say what I said a few times. The one who says that this law is not suitable for further procedure would say that the one who says it — this is said to be the government — is not fit for further rule. I'm sorry, but that's what it looks like. I support this proposal, and I hope that it will also receive the majority support that we will allow the citizens to sign up quickly, the cheap entry, but we will burden those employees on the part of working on the land book, so that the backlogs will not be so large that they will not begin to compare themselves with the judicial backlogs and that this will not go to court statistics. As far as it belongs – of course, the land book and its belongings fall within the scope of the court, now that the statistics deal with it, that's another. Not to be constantly talked about how the courts are overloaded to have hundreds of thousands of unsolved cases. These are also cases waiting for the land book, but the courts cannot be made by the citizens themselves and they can make entry into the land book. And at least let's give it to them to do it to relieve the courts, and it'll be cheap. And that is certainly what citizens will accept with approval. And they'll probably have more confidence in the ruling policy. If she ever lets them do anything like that, they'll be able to do it themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u103	Thank you. The word has Mr. Kek to prepare Mr. Grill. [[You're giving up, Mr. Kek.]] Mr. Grill. Get ready, Mr. Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u104	Thank you very much. Looking back, when we discussed practically the same law last year, it is interesting to compare today's explanations, first of all sent groups, about this law. And if we compare their statements or statements about almost the same law a few months ago, we could see how much misrepresentation, falsification of facts is here, and perhaps a very great effort has been made to try now to write or find reasons why this law is not suitable for further consideration. You really are a master of deception! The government itself probably had a lot of regrets in this explanation, as we know, that it was pouring ash or spitting through the law, which it had spent 64 thousand euros on. It is interesting, Mr Secretary of State, exactly for your department, although we can argue for the whole Government that, in this mandate, it has put those laws that it has drafted into procedure, the objectives have been, above all, the privilege of certain elites, social groups. Your ministry is even more pronounced here. What laws or changes of law have you made in this year or in this term? First of all, you went to amend the law on legal tariffs. For what reason? Even in the Constitutional Court, he fell so we couldn't have a referendum on that. So that lawyers can raise tariffs! Otherwise, you will now claim that the Ministry does not give up on their demands. But those who have a business with lawyers know that they already find themselves in a different way, that these tariffs are very high or significantly higher than they were. Then the law on court fees. You also went to change this law, even though it was hard to believe that there was any difference or unconstitutionality that they were trying to display here. The law that we discussed earlier is essentially a law that confers privileges on a particular group of people — these bankruptcy administrators. You've also entered such holes, or traps, or whatever it is that can be abused. And, of course, they're abusing it. And you've been vehemently arguing how we don't solve this with those suggestions that we've just had in this treatment. That's not true! Just with those suggestions, there would be a lot of solutions. And now this particular law, the Land Book Act. Already in the discussion, I personally supported the many good solutions that are in that marriage. But what we were most opposed to at the time was those things that we deleted in this proposal. In fact, we have deleted four or five articles from the same text; I think it is those articles that say who may be applying for these land books. Here again the hidden goal is to privilege a certain group of people: notaries, lawyers. If this information holds that there are about 300 in Slovenia, at least the estimate is 300 people who would do so, and if it holds the information that about 30 million euros per year is costing some of these services, we can quickly calculate that each of these 300, if evenly distributed, would be able to earn 100,000 euros per year to this account. By means of this law, we try not to monopolize the matter, but to make investments on the part of those who are qualified to do so. You will find it difficult to convince me that real estate brokers or municipalities – see, the Ljubljana Municipality then opposed that law. It is likely that even a group of qualified people who can make the required enrollments even more professionally than notaries or lawyers. But you've eliminated this matter, and it's solely for the purpose of trying to take advantage of it. This is the main purpose of being privileged and making a profit to notaries. It therefore states how this law is nonconsistent, how it could not be implemented. It's for the hair, and it's not for the hair! However, if, by chance, some nonconsistency has been shown, see, vote for this law and then with amendments it is certain to correct. I hope, however, that the amendments would not be one that would make it possible for lawyers and notaries to earn their profits again. Unfortunately, we will witness that the coalition will also reject this law. However, after you have prepared another law, which will have the same solutions, notaries and lawyers, we will make sure that the law falls. In this way, I myself will support this law for further consideration, and I hope that there will be enough arguments for this to be heard during the debate today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u105	Thank you. Mr. Rezman. [[He's quitting.]] Mr. Rogers, please. Get Mr. Gumzar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u106	Thank you so much for saying that. I will try again, and I hope that someone will listen to me, to present the arguments in their own name, how and what to do with this law and how and what to do with this problem. On the marriage proposal for a land book that was already in the National Assembly, we also had concerns in our parliamentary group. We all agree on the basic purpose, this is electronics. I would advise, although of course I doubt that I will be heard, these exercises in my imagination, what everything, to whom, why and phobias. I understand that such paranoid thinking is simply an integral part of the personality of some Members and Members, and I will not be able to help much. But this has nothing to do with reality. The fact is, when we do real estate, each of us does, mostly, well, at least I am, because I can't handle it so well, with the notary, to authenticate the signature, the contract, and so on, that I know that things are going to be "shut up," and that, of course, cost me. Even under the new Land Book Law, it would be no different. But you can think of the profits of those and those you want. I would also, of course, ask myself, do companies that have so far been united in the Chamber of Commerce of Slovenia, which has issued an estimate of 30 million euros, have no employees of any legal adviser, does it cost nothing? From now on, we should start doing these jobs, but I don't believe it. It is also interesting that the data of the Chamber of Commerce, when it comes to a political structure, can be used and, on the other hand, when there is a populist talk about labour rights, it will be easy to ignore what the Chamber of Commerce has to look at. But I'm already used to this opportunism. Let me return to the proposal before us today. It has to be acknowledged that the law’s proponents in particular have to admit that they have not passed the law, at least they have not taken enough time to do so in order to settle the matter, but rather to be the first to settle it. Because, of course, they know that this is an important topic to be addressed, even under previous legislation, which is now in force, this must be regulated by the expiry of the legal transitional provisions of the previous amendment of the law by May of this year, and this has, of course, to be done quickly. At the same time, as they themselves admitted, like their party president in state speeches, they copied another, in this case the Government. They also deleted a few things, and because of these things, which they uncritically deleted, such a marriage proposal as it is is, in practice, impossible to do. And that's, say, the government said, those who have more time, you took the time, and you looked at it, and now we're here. We have yet another proposal before us in the legislative procedure, so there is no need to say that once there is a better solution. The one who's in the process isn't ideal either. As far as I am concerned by the Zares Group and myself, it would be appropriate to supplement it with the substantive proposals you are talking about; in short, that even natural persons in the courts can make these proposals, and as far as I am concerned, I will make sure that this is the case. And you, as I understand from my colleague Grill, will try to make him fall. Why would we want this marriage to fall? Because you obviously don't want this thing to work out. I hope that you will change your mind and that together we will find a way to amend the law that is possible to be amended, which is unfortunately not the one. That's why it's inappropriate for [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u107	Thank you. Mr. Gorenak, as a motioner. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u108	Thank you very much. I saw someone in the hall doing that, and then he did that. I think he was right. Look. Let's go to the dark, I think it'll be better if we say the matter. It's true it's not burlesque, but it's a serious topic. It's true they're not hidden cameras, but it's a serious topic. It's not a humorous series either, but it's a serious topic, and it's also a good idea to try to have a serious debate. Ladies and gentlemen! For this law you have given 64 000 EUR or 66,000 before you – it has nothing to do with it. 64,000 euros. It was paid by budget people. Money went through the Supreme Court of Lawmakers. This is Dr. Nina Platt, but as far as the rest of the contractors are concerned, I don't have any data. However, we will ask the Minister, after that, of the questions sent. You brought the law to Parliament last October, and we said that this law is good at most. It's electronics. However, we have told you that under the good news that this law was already there, you cannot and should not take or steal 30 million euros from taxpayers on an annual basis and give them to lawyers and notaries because they already have too much money there. We have said this and we have not supported this law just because the citizens of the country are fools and say they must not apply for land-book applications themselves. Because they are paying 12 euros today, it would be 200 euros. Why is that? In this context, we have specifically said that you will get the word. [[...]] I hope the chairman will give it to you. You won't get it? I don't know.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u109	Mrs. Roach. You're not among the discussers, you're not registered. But it will be possible to share time, and then you will apply.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u110	We have further said that we do not agree to such a law because it takes 30 million euros to people and gives them to 300 people. You share, and you'll see how much work pay is at the annual level. We didn't say anything else. The law went through, the State Council told you: no, veto! And the National Assembly threw away this law and was not confirmed in another reading. He wasn't confirmed in another reading! So he wasn't confirmed by veto. Whatever. And the law before you is nothing but the same law, minus 4,5 articles that took 30 million euros from people. Say it! So, any debate today on this issue of how the law is not consistent, how wrong it is, without being amended and so on, are superfluous. I've already seen the 90th and 120th Amendments Act. Yeah. We had it on the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice. The government wrote it and amended it on its own, that's all. Yeah, and then you can add the five articles, which you think is "not a deck," which you don't think is right. Or maybe it's your prestige. Because here we have another law, the same law that brings things back to their original state: pull out 30 million euros. Plus for a better addition to lawyers, notaries to real estate agencies. That's all, and that's all! You're probably waiting for that marriage to come, and that's unfair. Because trust in politics is falling, and they asked me in the hallway a minute ago, and I said it wasn't true, because their political option creates that state because it's falling. As for me and my client, no. Well, it's not a lack of confidence in politics, but with the actions you do, you write your own fate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u111	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor. Get Mr. Gumzar ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u112	Thank you very much. Your Honor! We have before us a new law on the land book. As has been pointed out here many times before, we have entered into it all that was positive in the government proposal and cleaned it out of what was in the government proposal or tried to frame our citizens under this land book information company to ask and sort out some features which, of course, are most likely the reserve division of the current coalition. This, of course, did not succeed this coalition, for the veto of the State Council and the subsequent little clarification of some Members, including on your part, prevented it. Now we have a law that summarizes 70% of the law you've drawn up in the government. Of course, it has an essential component that allows the investment of land-books by all citizens. Mr Gorenak asked himself earlier about your reactions to prestige, and you do not want to accept it. I need to find that what I've heard from you is not about prestige, but about two states of law. You build on the rule of law for the rich and for the medium and less financially able you do not anticipate the rule of law. They must be kept at the edge of society. It is an explicit caste system — some are omnipotent, while others are impoverished across borders to land in slaverylike relationships, such as those of Zidar’s workers there at the Colossae. Ladies and gentlemen, are you following what's going on in the world? Does the resistance of the masses in Egypt mean nothing to you? Anything's possible. For 30 years, it is possible to terrorize people, 30 years can be taken up, 30 years can be used more and more, but denied once. Well, now these parties, who are the successors of the previous party system, you may have technology for 60 years to do so. Maybe. But I doubt you can count on such a long perspective, I doubt it. I'm telling you in a very friendly way, take it. Accept solutions that also refer to an ordinary citizen. And not only do they think they're giving him back the dignity that you tried to take from him in his previous marriage. The dignity that a normal Slovenian is capable and functionally capable. Don't tell the Slovenians that they're fools, that they don't have these abilities. Now you apologize that the time has gone on, that there are different technologies, even in these technologies, the Slovenians are at the top, for now. And if you want to take that away from them, you don't just take that away from them. Slovenia takes a piece of innovation, the ability to logical solutions, for functional solutions, for functional literacy. You're bringing the company back down after the spiral. Then there is no innovative economy, no administration and – nowhere. Why do you want to take this away from them? From Mary Teresa forward, every citizen of Slovenia, every Slovenian had forever that he could appear on the land book, could invest himself. Do you think it was easier for the average Slovenian to write and make a time-share like today, when Slovenians are computer average literate and you take them in order to support the extra earnings of certain castes in this society. The caste system needs to be dismantled, which you have introduced in these years. There must be no caste system in Slovenia, if you are still so confident. And look again at what the people in Egypt and elsewhere thought when the rulers tried to force them back into the caste system. This story has to end. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u113	Thank you. Mr. Gumzar has the floor. Get ready, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u114	Thank you so much for saying that. In opening, I would like to say that I am in the hands of the Council of Justice on the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Land Book Act, which has written that the proposal does not fully support and draws attention to several serious issues relating to the legal security of citizens, such as, in particular, the electronic submission of letters, the removal of land-book entries, the elimination of local jurisdiction, the storage of documents in notaries and only in electronic form. In principle, I agree. And as I finally said in the presentation of the positions of the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, I hope that the Government will fix or prepare it in a new law so that the Council of Justice will be satisfied, in particular that we will be pleased with those who have discussed the previous law and the current law in the National Assembly, and that we will listen to the general professional public. As far as local jurisdiction is concerned, I am confident that it is best to leave the preservation of documents and local jurisdiction where the property lies, because this would be the least of the problems. With the closure of the land book deposit, however, we are likely to make another negative issue in the administration, particularly with regard to the fact that we will find our properties even more difficult, as we now have some difficulties in determining the value of property in the Geodetic Authority. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u115	Thank you. Mr Tanko or Mr Gorenak on behalf of the applicants.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u116	Thank you very much. For this is what you have spoken, for this is it: but this is already in the law from before, and this is what the world of justice has warned of. And we also pointed out that it would be impossible for someone to buy it on the Primorski house, at home is from Prekmurje or vice versa, and that the matter would be registered with the notary in Sežana, he would enter it into the land book and deposit it and then die in 20 years, and the one in Murski Sobota would no longer know where it was deposited. This is a problem, but it had an original law, and also the law written by Mrs Plaèezov had the same thing. And then he was good. And you supported him. In 14 days, he's not good, or three weeks, or a month, or what he is now. The amendment – the matter is settled. [[adverts from benches]] In that part, but not carry back inside Mr. Grill, I know what he meant without looking at him. [[...]] That's exactly what he wanted you to do, not be able to amend him in that sense and not support the amendment in the sense of bringing back lawyers and notaries. Oh, no. Since this is a problem of how to give 30 million euros to lawyers and notaries, we will not support it. And go ahead. The Mayor of the Municipality of Ljubljana, the Association of Municipalities or whatever it is called – they all wrote in order to Members, to the leadership of the National Assembly, to the Minister, to preparers and so on. "Give us peace," they said. "We know how to compose the land book." Jankovic says, "I have enough smart lawyers." I don't have any sympathy for him, as you know, but he's right. He's right, what he says. Why now take away the rights of Jankovic and the other mayors and say no! A lawyer and a notary can do it on your behalf! I'll say it again, and people can see what you're doing. Don't do this because I find it completely pointless! And once again, only lawyers and notaries have been put into law as an option if the citizen so decides. But if a citizen decides to do it himself, let him do it himself, and let the court make it possible for him. Even that option, in order to take into account what you said, Mr Gumzar, that local jurisdiction must be taken into account, this probably drinks water. Yes, but this flaw already has a basic law. And if we end this with an amendment, and I believe that Mr Grill won't object because he hasn't talked about it, then we can deal with it, and the matter goes on. But if you insist on the version of the law that follows this law, it will be proof of what is called prestige. I remember exactly one of the Members, I would have appointed him, but now I don't know who he was, so I wouldn't have mistakenly named him in the previous term. I was up there somewhere, at the door when Prime Minister Janša was here, answering questions from the Members. And I know that someone -- I don't know who he was anymore -- has pointed out that if you, the President, you are rejecting all the laws that we are proposing in the opposition. Don't do this. You're making a fool of us. And so on was that question. But be careful – what happened after that meeting? The first discussion in the Janez Janša coalition was very clear: Ministers, consider what can be taken into account! I myself, as an informal leader of this development partnership group, have always had the task of reminding each of our ministers: look, don't be stubborn, accept the opposition's proposal. And many laws — with the exception of some ladies, yes — have been harmonised. At that time, we reconciled the economy with a reasonable man, Mr Ferri Horvat, and Mr Vizjak was on our side. I don't remember an economic-financial law that wouldn't be harmonised. I practically don't remember him. And the papers will show that you supported those laws. But I had a problem with some female interlocutors because they came out mostly from ideological perspectives and weren't quite prepared. [[...]] [[adverts from benches]] I'm not talking about you. They weren't ready to talk. [[...]] That was the problem. But nevertheless, ladies and gentlemen, you have supported 60% of the laws that we, you and we have harmonised in the previous government. The exact percentage is 64 and something to be clear. This is the overall balance sheet of the development partnership. This meant cooperation between the coalition and the opposition. Today, you sit in a coalition, rejecting your own law, which lacks four articles that wipe out the lobby. Remember, comrades, what happened three years ago, how you yelled at the then Prime Minister not to accept anything? That's not true! You're being denied data, that's a fact. It seems quite normal to me that this bill, like the previous bankruptcy bill, would be put into a second treatment, to engage in the services you have, 33 thousand and so many employees in the state administration, x-laws, to write an amendment, if you think it is wrong, with the exception of an amendment that would give 30 million euros to lawyers and notaries, but that vote would not be taken into account, but the vote would show its own. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u117	Thank you. Mr Tanko has the floor to prepare Mr Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u118	Thank you so much for saying that. Today we are witnessing what we are already saying practically the entire mandate. Here is the whole "point", the whole point of this debate of Members is only about who can propose the law. And given that you are coalition Members, including the Government, the one who opposes the solution, the proposal – it is only prestige, only because the solution proposed is practically 100% summarised by the government proposal, which has fallen due to the negligence of the ruling coalition. In these solutions that we have proposed, we have not written anything of the kind that would be contrary to the solution proposed by the Government in the previous months. Exceptions are only provisions relating to who is the one who can carry out the procedure, to draw up a proposal for entry into the Land Book. All the other solutions are almost, in fact, literally copied. And all those who comment and read the government's opinion on this marriage would do well to make this comparison with what you were so enthusiastic about a month or two ago. Draw out the magnetograms of your discussions on the same provisions in the law as we have here, and you will see what your views were then. The only difference is that this has been proposed by the Government, the Slovenian Democratic Party's parliamentary group. I wonder if this is possible in this society, in this country, it is likely that such a change could take place in such a short time, on the virtually the same text. Is that possible?Oh, my God! We are against the government creating castes with its bill proposals. It does not seem appropriate for us to have privileged groups present in this society, which are predetermined by law to perform a service for a third party. I do not think that this is based on the principle of free choice and free competition. If I have a need and they need me to do a favor, then it's normal for me to let myself choose whether to do it myself or hire someone to do it and pay for it. In the case of simple procedures such as land-book entries, there is probably no need to hire university-graduate lawyers with a judicial exam, which is said to be the only one who can prepare these land-book entries, because otherwise he cannot be a notary or a lawyer. We put about 80,000 children into the school process every year. About 60,000, 50, 60 thousand are in high school, graduating, about 20,000, 25 thousand of them graduate. It is said that this human resources structure that we create in the nation is improving us significantly. Each year, the structure is significantly better. Now that we educate so many people, we simply declare them functional illiterates with one such solution in the law, for people who can't do enough simple operations, fill out some form, make a role, and turn it over to some window. That's a big problem. If our education system is that bad, we should probably ban other things. But I think that our educational structure, that our expertise over the years, when more and more educated people come to the labour market, does not improve, but vice versa, is improving. And our staffing structure is improving more, our limitations are greater, we are putting more reservations into these laws. I recall that, in the previous term, we have given a lot of thought to the fact that we have cheapened the procedures, that we have simplified the procedures, that we have abolished – what there was no need to make it pay, that it is not payable. Now these measures, by means of these procedures, which are brought primarily in the field of justice, are at stake. Perhaps what the Secretary of State says is true is that this basic tariff is lower. But all the extra things that notaries or lawyers are counting on for some form, for some role, and that brings some huge extra costs. You're only talking about the simple work, the taxi that's standardized there, but it's not the only cost in this process. If someone is not forced to, if someone is not obliged to contact a law firm or a notary office, then there are no additional costs. He doesn't have any extra routes. But obviously, this system, which is being corrected in the field of justice, is such that everything needs to be integrated and put into some systems, some chambers, under some authority, to provide certain costs, on the one hand, the state can give up part of its revenues, on the other hand those who are supposed to do so or who could do so themselves. Here I think there's also some fundamental misunderstanding. Today we have a bunch of people, like, who are the p.s., who can lead one form or another of economic society. We have people, say, who have private companies with 100 or more employees and can have a few ten million euros or more annual traffic and a lot of employees. And even such persons are simply prevented from doing a certain simple service, such as land-booking, which costs up to €100, on their own. Does that make any sense to anyone? I think it will be difficult for you to find in this country a person who will uphold such a proposal, such a solution as you have written down in this law. I believe that it is necessary, in the field of administration, to make this, economic, public, judicial, to make matters easier, to value matters and to relax matters. If we want to give this country something of entrepreneurial spirit and start-up, then these things need to be released and people allowed to take care of their own things, just as they think it will be best for them. Surely that is why you had a major problem in the adoption of the law proposed by the Government a month or two ago, even in the coalition; certainly only because of this. Not because of the things we are now proposing with this law, which are good – and we have also said this in all the cases, even in past procedures – or because of things that we have also warned ourselves that they seem to be inappropriate. The fact that the law fell in the previous proceedings is said to be the sole fault of the coalition in December 2010, when we voted on the veto. Some members of the coalition, I think one member voted against the law, against it, did not abstain, and five or six Members did not even vote. Some were here and even wisely avoided voting, such as Mr Kek. It's probably to think of everyone, you, us, and someone else. That things are not good, that they do not take place, is also reflected in the conversion of these views which the Government has on these proposals. I think it's a problem to expect, despite the fact that you agreed on Saturday to roll up your sleeves and start working to see a good solution in this term. I also highly doubt that we will expect good positions from the Government on the proposals that are in the legislative process. In order to effectively critically assess the proposals we have and then propose additions where it is necessary to do so. I asked earlier about the previous law whether the Government estimates that the proposal we have proposed is a step in the right direction. I'm asking the same question here. Does the proposal that we have tabled in the legislative process, which fully sums up more or less all of those governmental solutions for which there was virtually complete consensus in the National Assembly, constitute a step in the right direction? If this is a step in the right direction, then the wise government, even if it is red, would expect it to support the proposal because it agrees with the principles, fundamental solutions and guidelines of the law. But apparently, in a month and a half since the collapse of government law, there has been a complete change in philosophy and thinking and therefore the government's rejection of this proposal. Here I can also say that what has to be said is that, with this free proposal, which we have tabled in the legislative process, we are also saving that government investment in the drafting of the law. For the preparation of this law, someone who prepared it received a break every 15 months or a prize in the amount of gross parliamentary salary. For the preparation of a single marriage. What we are proposing is free of charge, summarized by the Government, and I would therefore expect the Government to support it as well. I hope so much wisdom in this house is still "in the lager."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u119	Thank you. Mr. Skrlec has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u120	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I myself did not want to take the time of this great assembly to discuss things that are not actually on the agenda or things that are less important at the moment. Indeed, in the position of the Government, which I presented, it was quite clear that the main problem of this law was that some of the solutions in the previous government proposal had been withdrawn. And he also removed those solutions that erased the last traces of paper business in the land book law that was in force today. The problem with the proposal on the table is that a whole series of articles, from 60 to about 77, leaves intact and there is a regulated paper business, a paper business. And this cannot be amended because the law that has been tabled does not open these articles. Therefore, these provisions relating to paper operations cannot be amended in the law in force. This means that the objective of informationisation pursued by this proposal, which is mainly a copy of what the government proposal was in the previous legislative process, cannot be achieved. And not only that, but if such information is introduced and part-time paper business, paper business, we'll cause confusion. It is therefore the view of the Government that this proposal cannot be supported because amendments to this deficiency cannot be remedied. I believe that it is sometimes difficult to understand, but some are skillfully manipulated by the fact that the law on the table is actually the same as that which was introduced by the Government. It is not the same, although we have heard from Members' mouth that 100% is the same, of course except in a work that is not the same. Yes, that's an essential detail: in a work where it's not the same, because there's a missing piece that wipes out the entire paper business. However, since so much has been said in this debate about the features, castes, lobbying, earnings and wealth, it is only right to repeat some of the things that have already been said. The service performed by the citizen himself today, which, following a proposal that is not even more up-to-date, he has not done for him, would be cheaper. Pika. There are no additional costs, since it is very clear that the submission of the land book proposal is a tariff number and the amount of this land book application, a court fee, plus the tariff or notary fee is less than today’s fee if the person submits it himself. I've said this several times before, and I'll probably be there when the next proposal is under consideration. In doing so, this is not even the point of the agenda, so I would not like to repeat it, but given that the reality is constantly repeating that it will be more expensive, it is necessary to make it clear that this is not true. Lobbies, castes — maybe; that's something you can talk about. But we need to know something, notariat is a constitutional category established by the Constitution, and we have notaries to provide certain services to citizens. Of course, it is possible to show, as we are hearing again today, that citizens are deprived of a right because they do not have to submit a land book proposal or cannot do it alone, they must do it not. But there has been a number of such cases in the past, and there has been talk of removing administrative barriers. Personally, I have no pleasure and no pleasure in having to write a tax return, no pleasure, I believe that most citizens have not felt any joy in writing a tax return. Now you don't have to do it anymore, you do it, and we'll make sure everything's okay. That's exactly what this is about. People don't feel the pleasure of writing land-book proposals. For less money, someone else will do it to them. Is this an insult to people — I don't know, I don't see it that way. I can see that this is good for them, because it is already necessary for this man, who is not present and who is engaged in public service, to do so and so in land-booking procedures, as we have mentioned several times in the previous legal procedure. More than 90 % of all land-book entries are made on the basis of a document in which the notary is involved in one way or another. And if we allow people to end their journey there and they don't have to go to court yet, I doubt we've done anything that might offend them, or something that might hurt them. There was also a lot of talk about the government spending more than 60,000 euros on this law. That's not true. The government has not committed any fees to this marriage, at least as I know it. It is true, however, that the Supreme Court conducted the information procedure, which is not the drafting of the law. And informing means developing technical solutions for an electronic land book. And why did it start? Because in 2008, in the previous term, the law which imposed this and set the dates was adopted. And this date was postponed to May 2011, because it was clear that it would not be possible to implement it at that time. The law that fell in the National Assembly, which we have before us today, is a legal basis, but this is being prepared by the Ministry. With all this, I would like to say that there are a lot of words in today's debate about a topic that is actually not yet up to date. An amendment has not yet been tabled to reintroduce the notaries to this proposal. But the problem with this proposal is, as I said in the introduction: that it does not make a clear distinction between electronic and written transactions, but it is obvious by mistake, I believe that, by mistake, the article in the Government Act, which corrected Articles 67 to 77, also fell out, I speak from memory, these are those relating to the books of the order. It remains a paper business and therefore this law, as proposed today, is such that it cannot be corrected by amendments. I think that this is the essence of today's debate, which is constantly being lost in the debates on solutions that are not actually the main item of the agenda today. As far as I understand the representatives of the coalition parties, the main point is that amendments to this law cannot be corrected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u121	Thank you very much. Anton Kolaric has the word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u122	Thank you very much. We rarely hear so much praise in Parliament for a law as we heard from the proponents that the law that we discussed some month and a half ago was two, so good, so unique and so forth that you just took it. I'm just surprised he didn't get your support back then. And then, apparently, you just copied it, like you said, and then you deleted something else, you added it, you recalculated it; in short, far away from being the law that was a month ago, two in the process. Personally, I think that with these crossings, the correction has lost its meaning to the law, so I can't support the one you filed. I am also surprised that there is always talk about a small man, about one who will be saved some euro and so on. Otherwise, I doubt that a young person goes to the land book on a daily or weekly basis and submits various land-book proposals because I have little doubt that he deals with real estate and registration of his property. Already today, as has already been said, more than 90% of all applications for entries are made by notaries, perhaps by lawyers. And of those few percentages who invest themselves, the majority of cases are reported to have to be complemented, both in person and with the right people. As it is said today, most cases are handled through notaries, where legal certainty is also ensured. Such insistence on investing in this as much as possible means that the current state of affairs is not regulated and remains disorderly for future generations. It is also said that in Ljubljana or central Slovenia it is 5 years. I must say this that these times have ever passed, and even in this central Slovenia, a little more has been done to update the land book. Personally, I think that this amendment of the law must be rejected and then new legislation in this area definitively regulated; in particular in the direction of information and in the fact that all these procedures are simpler and cheaper than they are today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Does he want a word with the government's representative? He doesn't want to. Would you like a representative of the proposer? Dr. Gorenak, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u124	I hope you don't throw it off the balcony. Thank you very much. He only responds a little bit to Mr. Kolaric. Why didn't the marriage get support? I told you. Like I said a month and a half ago, in this same microphone and in those two there: you've made a great marriage in the work of computerization, because in the end you're continuing what Sturm started. But the problem is, they're lawyers and notaries, and that's why we can't support him. We couldn't support three-quarters of the law, but five articles couldn't. You know that's not going to work. Why so much for lawyers, notaries? You open a portal, because there's no instruction or advertising anywhere, tax inspectors monitor lawyers. 8 were supervised in this report; 650 000 Euros of additional commitments are stated. For what? The Minister's holding back the tariffs a little bit, but they're making up extra liabilities. And these same people need to be given another 30 million, and that's why we didn't support them. The purpose of the marriage was lost — I meant to say that the law had not lost its meaning. The law preserves the whole meaning of electronic books and electronics because it's the same as yours. It's all yours. However, in the work relating to land registers, it is different, namely, it differs in one thing: firstly, it gives the citizen the opportunity to make his own application. If a citizen wants money, he should go to a notary's lawyer, if that's okay with him. But we don't want to make the primary decision, and we don't want to. During Mary’s time, did Theresa also bequeath to her lawyers? Yes, of course, they may be if they were illiterate, but only today most of our citizens are only literate and can fill out the form. Secretary of State, you've been talking about how it's going to be cheaper together now. Yeah, sure. You said it would be cheaper together. But you take an example called a copy of a land, such as a property or a copy of a house. Why? Because you have to take the contract to the Notary to verify it. Maybe it would still be in that case, but I don't believe it, it should be listed there, because you have to count everything in this government and check it out. But if I'm going to sign in my own house, which I'm going to build, it's not like that. And I don't need any notary. Why would I need a notary if the house was built in a classic way? I've been working the garage a little bit lately, and I don't have a problem. I don't need to have a lawyer under existing legislation to sign into the land book right now. Yeah, I have to make an entry to the land book as far as I know. So, look, this isn't exactly the situation. That's right, I'll always be honest with you if you'll point out some things that I may not be right about. In your parliamentary committee, it says that for the electronics project and so on, Plażekova got it, but the amount is indeed the same. From the court, of course, of course. But it doesn't matter to the citizen, from the budget. The citizen doesn't care if it's agricultural, forestry, judicial or judicial, because it doesn't matter, it's the budget. But I accept that part that's a broader project, you're right, not just for this law. However, this law is bound by this electronicity. That's right. But it is also true that this is simply a parliamentary salary. Hmm, very big. So the thing is simple and simple. People would say, like beans. There are some articles drawn that put the citizen at the forefront so that he can do it himself if he wants to. But if he has the money, he should go to the lawyer and the notary. That's all. But if there is any problem and any inconsistencies, and given that we wrote it ourselves in the parliamentary group, or summarized it for you, and perhaps where we have made a mistake, the mistakes are human, but please, the matters are amendment and the matter is solved. But if you reject the law and bring the same thing as you already did to the veto tomorrow, and as it has already fallen through the veto, you're going to add it to the lawyers and notaries of the real estate agency, and I'll probably give you the lecture again. And maybe then you'll understand better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u125	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether, under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure, anyone else wishes to discuss it? Discussment application. If the Secretary of State can also apply. Everyone gets five minutes. Don't think I'll give you an hour and a half or two. He's got five minutes for everyone to discuss. Please, Mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u126	Thank you very much, President. Five minutes will be more than enough and correct. True, we have told each other the essence of this marriage, and the truth is probably in the middle of something. And I think that it is precisely there, as Mr State Secretary has said, that in this law those non-members we cannot, despite good will, amend them, but we have seriously thought about this problem in order to be resolved. It is also necessary to read the opinion of the Council of Justice and then this is it. For us, and for me personally, however, it is essential that 90% of people handle a problem in one way or another that it is okay. Yes, of course, those who want and are the most educated, if they have this option, can arrange for themselves, but because of a couple of euros, I am sure that they will not be many. I am pleased that I have also heard the correction of one, a few decades of malicious remarks made by the Ministry, about how much it would cost to write this law. That today it has been heard that this is not true, that it has simply gone for information, which we still need in court and justice, in order to make the procedures faster and more effective. I am confident that, after rejecting today's proposal, we will have a short law with which we will agree on both the left and the right. For it will be directed not to politics, but to easier and better administrative regulation of matters concerning our citizens and citizens. However, the land book is still an important story, and we are, of course, convinced by the numerous comments made by citizens and citizens at the invitation of the Geodetic Authority of the Republic of Slovenia. We were aware of the fact that only writing in the land book is what proves and regulates property and that we were many in this country, as well as the local communities, and that the situation in this country is not regulated as it should be. For if there are electrotransformator stations on private land, but there are schools, kindergartens and cemeteries, not to mention roads, then in this country we have much work to do together, and there is no need for us to argue about this among ourselves Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u127	Thank you very much. The word is Vito Rojej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u128	Thank you for your word. Although it is morally controversial to attribute your authorship to the things you copy, but given the practice that is present at the very top of the SDS, it is no wonder, it is still necessary to say that copying machines differ from each other and it is therefore nice that you have one that is consistent; if you want to change something, you change what is necessary and keep everything that is well preserved. And as colleague Gorenak said about the previous law that was in the procedure, so can I. The law you have drafted by SDS Members is an excellent law, but not in the field of electronic commerce and electronicisation of the land book. Right where his original purpose was, that's where the thing slipped. There, I don't know why, the Secretary of State is more merciful, he believes that because of ignorance, I can't be so sure, you have deleted a little too much and because of this the law is disabled to this extent – and you know this too, colleague Gorenak, at least through the debate you have been explained many times – to amend it to this extent to be feasible, it cannot. I agree with the substantive solutions you are proposing, although my assessment of the possibilities that will be available to the citizen is slightly different. If he has some money, he'll go to the notary, because it'll be cheaper there if he has a little more, but he'll go to the land book himself, where he'll cost a little more, and he'll probably have some other expenses, travel, if nothing else. That's why it's interesting to me, my colleague Tanko has talked about the additional costs – in short, in the plural – that arise when we go to the notary, but I would be very interested, I know that my colleague Tanka is no longer here, and he won't get the words, but I believe that his client colleague, Comrade Bezjak, will tell me what these three costs are, at least, which are the extra costs that cost us when we go to the notary, which we don't know yet. And since the procedure is extremely important and because we have talked about the fact that this law is invalid to the point that it cannot be corrected by amendments, it is necessary to ask why it should have been so hasty. And the answer is clear: because of political prestige, because of the commotion, if you will. Of course, it sounds good to talk about the development partnership or how it was in the previous term. This probably meant that the opposition got a word on the proposals proposed by the government. That's not the case. The law before us is not what the government would suggest. If such a law were involved and another Member was applied at the same time, it would be possible for the college to make a hybrid out of this after the decision. You can't do that in this case. There was too much haste and the possibility that something could be done in a real and substantive and formal way so that there would be general satisfaction, consensus and implementation possible. Of course, we could also adopt such a law that would be enforceable and would later correct what should be corrected. But, as it is said, because of the pompousness which, in my view, was the main reason for this marriage being introduced, it is necessary, in my opinion, to reject this law for teaching reasons, because we know exactly that there is another possibility of improvement in the legislative procedure. As far as the content itself is concerned, I, as well as some other colleagues from the parliamentary group, are still concerned, but we know that the judiciary is also prepared to improve the substantive provisions in the direction you are proposing, for example, in this law alone. And when that happens and when we improve the next amendment to the Land Book Act – I hope that you will be able to handle so much self-criticism and that you will take back all these pussies that have now been poured out and you will not be able to read this coalition without knowing what sectarianism, caste system or anything else. That would be ideal, I find it hard to believe that this will happen, and hope remains the last. That's why I'm going to reject this marriage as inappropriate, because, as I said, it's no longer possible to amend it. However, I hope that you will be able, unlike my colleague Grill, to perhaps all other SDS Members, this wisdom and cooperation, so that the substantive innovations that your marriage proposal brings can be introduced into one that will also allow for the general satisfaction of all users of the land book. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u129	Thank you very much. The word is Marian Bezjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u130	Thank you for your word, President. Hello, everyone! Today we have the same land book law before us for the second time, except for the difference between the excepted articles, because somehow citizens and citizens do not agree that they would only be competent or landowners in fact notaries to enter the land book. My colleagues told me that the new law would make the entry into the earth’s book quite irritable. It is absolutely commendable that the system of entry into the land book has been digitised in Slovenia. After all, everyone will be able to see and see at any moment the orderliness of the land book in Slovenia, which in other countries is somehow far from that of us in Slovenia. It is true that the debate that is currently going in the direction of the law that we have tabled, which you have written, or which has been written by the institutions and has even been paid dearly and has not actually seen the light. I can't agree that it's a proper marriage. However, it could be appropriate to make certain amendments, which we have now tabled, with a few exceptions to the articles, as I have already said. It is true that all in the modern world want digitisation, a computer system, to move forward with the world, and so it is. It is not right, however, that these 300 notaries will be merciless only for entry into the land book. I would agree that these notaries would then employ so many and so many people or from the book of the earth that they would do so. For by doing so, we are expanding bureaucracy again or protecting some individuals. I absolutely agree, however, that it will not be misunderstood to have to move forward. This has already been demonstrated by the digitisation of the system into the land book. I hope you will now give second reading support to this law. And that, regardless of who puts it in, he will take a step forward or see the light of the world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u131	Thank you very much. The word is "Silven Tiny."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u132	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It's a very important marriage. Clearly, it is clear from this that he has been given great attention and debate. The current, newly tabled proposal of the SDS law has been practically copied into a law already under consideration, which has only been corrected in a few articles. There is no monopolization of lawyers and notaries in the new law, and it gives municipalities and citizens the opportunity to invest independently. Of course, this is regulated in the case of authorised notaries, according to their own opinion. The proposed law is certainly acceptable and seems to support it, as it offers positive changes. It is a matter of simplification, which cannot be said of the previous law, where it was a matter of maiming the rights to make land-book proposals. However, there remain concerns about the harmonisation of the investment, which will be electronicised and will require a process for investing under the same system of all those who will invest. The land plot will have to have its own land policy proposal and each land plot will have to have its own judicial fee, which is likely to mean that notaries will also charge several proposals if the state requires more fees, which will also apply to those who invest themselves. For each plot of land, a specific record will have to be drawn up, and for each plot of land, the applicant will have to submit a separate land book proposal. This applies to everyone, both notaries and individuals. So far, three land plots have been able to be processed in one notary record and one application for entry into the land book, and this will not be possible from now on. Otherwise, it is possible to finalize the bill, because we think it is well-intentioned, so we will also support it in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u133	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the draft law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting of the National Assembly, decide today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, that is to say the bill on amendments and additions to the travel documents law, within the framework of the shorter procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government. The word has magic. Damjan Lah, Secretary of State at the Ministry of the Interior. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u134	Mr President, honourable Members and Members. The travel documents law is being amended and complemented in particular with a view to establishing a legal basis that will address the so-called non-life barriers to the implementation of the law in practice. The main purpose of the amendment is to ensure that citizens who travel frequently to countries under the visa regime for business and other reasons and countries of the Middle East, where one country's stamp may cause difficulties in entering another, are able to obtain and possess two travel documents at the same time. The acquisition of an entry visa takes a longer period of time, and therefore, according to the current arrangements, a person with only a normal passport is unable to travel without a passport during this period. This possibility is already open to its citizens by a large majority of other European Union countries, such as France, Spain, Portugal, Austria, Germany, the Czech Republic, including the United States of America, Canada and Japan. A comparative analysis of foreign legislation has shown that this allows 22 out of 24 countries covered by the analysis. It should also be pointed out that foreign countries do not therefore have problems with the potential misuse of passports, as well as Slovenian law already contains an institute of so-called punishment of an individual who, by selling, flaging or lending to a third party, as well as third parties who use a foreign passport as their own. The new law also introduces the possibility of service of a travel document with the manufacturer. Currently, the passport can only be served with the competent authority or by mail, the way in which the service is served shall be chosen by the citizen when the application is lodged. In view of the different situations of life, sometimes the whole process from registration of the application to production and service of the passport must be carried out as soon as possible. The service has repeatedly been an unnecessary obstacle since the citizen is dependent on the business time of the administrative unit or logistics of the delivery of postal mail to Slovenia. With the possibility of serving a passport to the manufacturer immediately after the document is made, a passport may be obtained as soon as possible. It should be noted that such a mode of service will be an exception and not an option and will be limited to the most urgent cases. The amendment also eliminates other deficiencies in the existing regulation and compliance with the Personal Data Protection Act, the Personal Data Protection Act, the External Affairs Act, the Mother Register Act and the Personal Card Act, such as the possibility of examining or transposing personal data from a travel document, the amended list of beneficiaries to a diplomatic and service passport, the return of an insolvent passport to a citizen and the possibility of filing a personal application for a travel document of a citizen who has acquired a full business capacity before the age of full age since he became a parent. The government believes that the solutions presented are appropriate and we propose that the proposal for a law be adopted. We also propose that the National Assembly adopt a decision to also draw up an officially consolidated text of the law, which the National Assembly approves. Perhaps just that, two amendments to the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group were tabled for today's meeting of the National Assembly, namely Article 8 and Article 10 of the Law, which the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice had already discussed and not adopted at its 26th session. The Government of the proposed amendments of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group does not support, but on the very reasons and content of the support for the consideration of the amendments themselves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The draft law was viewed by the Committee on Internal Policy, Public Administration and Justice as a mother's labour. In order to present the report of the Committee, I should give the floor to President Vink Gorenak. I'm guessing Dr. Gorenak didn't authorize anyone to do that. You received the committee's report on the bench, so we'll proceed. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Anton Kolarič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u136	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Mr. Secretary of State, colleagues, colleagues! The Travel Charter Act, which was adopted in 2000, changed or supplemented three times in eleven years. Amendments and additions related to the introduction of biometrics, the local competence to issue a travel document has been eliminated and a personal card can be used to cross the border for several years. The amendments and additions were also accompanied by visa policy and could also give reasons for these novelties. So there is a fourth novel that will allow them to travel, for example, to businessmen, pilots, journalists and others who, due to obtaining a visa to enter a country, do not have a passport or, due to previous visas, some countries do not allow them to enter the country, and thus, economic cooperation between countries is hampered. Of course, to obtain a passport of the same kind, it is necessary to state the reasons why such a charter is needed. The ownership of two similar travel documents is also a practice in some other EU Member States, so in the Group of Social Democrats we support solutions to enable economic operators and others who contribute to the establishment of economic contacts with which we have not operated in the last 20 years to do so without administrative obstacles related to the waiting for a country's visa. From the point of view of data protection or abuse, it is determined when travel documents may also be copied and not stored electronically. The amendments also concern the issuance of diplomatic or official travel documents. While there was a brief debate on this issue on the Committee on Internal Policy, in the Group of Social Democrats, we believe that such an arrangement as proposed in the paper we are considering today is appropriate. However, colleagues and colleagues also say that ordinary passports are used most often for business trips, while travel to European Union countries is a personal card. In the Group of Social Democrats, we will support the proposed amendment of the law and we will reject the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u137	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Miro Petek. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, good-bye! In the SDS Group, we will not oppose the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Travel Documents Act. Also, according to our assessment, it is a prudent possibility to obtain two travel documents mainly in certain types of professions that may be in an awkward position because of the fact that many countries of the world require entry visas, and in the fact that visa applications must be issued with a travel document and wait even for days or weeks. There is also a problem that is brought into a passport by a country’s registered visa, which makes it impossible or difficult to enter another country or a third country. The law extends a range of those who have the right to a diplomatic and service passport. At the meeting of the Internal Policy Committee, we also proposed an amendment which was rejected in order to allow the former President of the Government, former ministers, the President of the National Assembly, the President of the State Council, the President of the Constitutional Court and also Members, for a period of one term. Thus, just as the former President of the State has the right to a diplomatic passport, so does the second law. For all those listed after the end of their term of office maintain many of the contacts they encountered during their term of office and could benefit from a diplomatic passport. The opposition of the coalition and the government has also gone in this direction that the diplomatic passport is being used less and less at increasingly open borders. This is partly true, but not always, otherwise a diplomatic and business passport would simply not be needed at all. On the other hand, this law also extends a range of those who have the right to a diplomatic passport, to the closest members of the families and also to the lowest staff of our diplomatic and consular missions and representatives of Slovenia on various missions. At times, the list of diplomatic passport holders is inflationary or, in some cases, diplomatic passports can serve as an act of arrogance. Something similar is the inflation of the status and the title of the Minister-designate, since at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, employees of this status have been approaching almost half of all employees. In view of the stampede that we have many times experienced by Members, it may be very good that this amendment is not accepted, that the public does not understand how the diplomatic passport goes for former Members or the current Members for God knows what privilege it does not and will not. There are also many current members of the National Assembly of the diplomatic passport. We have tabled two amendments to the SDS Group of Members. One of these is article 10, where we believe that the holder of two passports in both travel documents should have the same photograph. This would avoid, according to our assessment, any potential abuse that may occur in the case of two travel documents issued for the same person, but at different times and with a changed image in the photographs. The second amendment, however, suggests that the validity of the second passport should be more precisely defined and, in addition to the reasons for the issue, bound to the validity of the first passport. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u139	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u140	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Dear representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! At the outset, let me express my regret that today many still find themselves in an awkward situation at which one of the state borders, that one country's visa in a passport may cause difficulties in entering another country. We are facing such problems to the greatest extent in an area that has been particularly under special public scrutiny in recent days at the border between Israel and Egypt. And who knows, maybe if there was such a law in our country before, but one of the Slovenian citizens who is still in Egypt would want to go from there to the state border between Egypt and Israel and travel home more easily. On the other hand, in Israel today, there are also the Union of Olympia basketball players, whom I wish them good luck in the evening, and with them also some journalist who might jump across the border to see how and what is going on, and that will probably not be possible. Not just because of such but because of some more tragic and urgent cases. With this amendment, we allow the acquisition or possession of two passports mainly for citizens who, for business or other reasons, often travel to countries with a visa regime. In doing so, the applicant will be able to obtain this second travel document and will have to base his entitlement to issue this second similar travel document on the basis of the application itself. Another novelty brought by the amendment of the law gives the applicant the opportunity to lift the travel document himself with the manufacturer, allowing the applicant to have faster access to the travel document and thereby save some time. This way we can avoid obstacles caused by, for example, business time, the operation of administrative units of Post Slovenia and so on. The solution offers more options for really fast service of travel documents in exceptional cases. The third set of amendments concerns addressing the shortcomings in the implementation of the law in practice, such as the possibility of viewing or transposing personal data from the travel document, as already mentioned, and the amended list of beneficiaries to the diplomatic and service passport. The return of an invalid or destroyed passport is also being regulated and could be listed. Changes are particularly urgent and welcome. In the Group of Members, we truly express our support and joy and we will support the law. As far as amendments are concerned, they are not moving away from the content of this marriage novel. They come from certain security concerns, but in particular from a different point of view, whether this other travel document is a second travel document or a copy of the first charter. I believe that these differences will be smoothed out in the debate and that the law will be widely supported. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u141	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u142	Dear Members, Members, representatives of the government! In the Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we fully agree with the way in which the issue of the issue of the additional travel document is regulated. All are aware of the complications that people face, more than anything to blame for the visa regimes in the Middle East. Not just there. Unfortunately, in practice, the United States of America has a completely different attitude towards people entering their country with, of course, suspicious stamps and visa seals. However, it is appropriate to maintain a certain degree of control, so it is appropriate that the applicant submits a request for a second travel document in his application to explain in detail what difficulties he faces in practice and in his travels and also to provide evidence of eligibility to issue another passport. However, it cannot be up to the stage when the second travel document appears and is only used as a reserve first. It should be known that each issue of an additional travel document also increases the possibility of its abuse. It is known that Slovenia's passport in the world of the criminal underworld, if I say so, is extremely appreciated, because it allows entry into a relatively wide range of countries without the need for a visa. For this reason, it would also make sense that, by the loss or withdrawal of one instrument, another instrument would cease to be valid, and in no case would the validity of the other instrument be longer than the validity of the basic travel document. The practice of most European countries is also that the second charter has a shorter period of validity than the first one. The Slovenian People's Party's Group has so many concerns about the fact that the applicant's measure on the possibility of issuing another travel document represents the possibility of issuing two identical documents, which then differ both after the date of validity and after the photographs. Our understanding of the implementation of the proposed solution is to facilitate travel for individuals who have difficulties on the road or who have to wait longer for visas to be issued. In such cases, they only need a physical duplicate of some kind and not just their own charter. For this reason, we find the amendment currently tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group, which proposes that the dates of validity of both travel documents do not differ, nor do they differ between the two photographs. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we believe that for this reason we should create a photo base at a landfill where we would store a significantly longer period than we are now when they are kept for only one year. At the same time, the draft law also regulates the area of official photocopying of travel documents and the management and integration of travel document records with the Personal Data Protection Act, since the legislation was too loose in the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party. More precise definitions of the beneficiaries of diplomatic and service passports are also welcome. By summarising the effects of the law itself, we are mainly summarizing the good practice of other developed countries. In addition to the fact that we have already regulated diplomatic and service passports for citizens travelling largely on duty, in the Slovenian People's Party we anticipate that the number of citizens and citizens who will really need an additional regular passport will be relatively low. For this reason, in the view of the Slovenian People's Party's Group, in terms of safety and prevention of abuse, they could afford even more stringent legislation than the drafter originally prepared this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u143	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group, the Democratic Party of the Pensioners of Slovenia, will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u144	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! Members of the DeSUS Group will be happy to support the amendment of the Travel Charter Act. We have examined the materials provided, and we have concluded with sympathy that this proposal is essentially designed for the actual needs of people. Let me remind you, this kind of spirit isn't exactly a constant star. The proposal for a law at several points practically brings the procedure and application of the official charter closer to each individual. For example, a transaction will be allowed for an individual, of course in certain cases, to request and obtain another passport of the same type. The service of a passport to an individual has now resulted in unnecessary red tape in unforeseen life situations, such as death, theft just before leaving, that the person received the document too late. The proposal cures such a state, and this is certainly positive. Many persons wish to keep passports even after the expiry of their validity and so on. Because of the beautiful memories of travel, old personal name, address and so on. In practice, administrative units have already returned to their wishes after the destruction of this document by the latter party, so there is no reason why such a situation would not be clearly regulated at the legal level in the DeSUS Group. The debate during the legislative procedure during the working-body hearing took place in the direction of a proposal, which was initiated by the SDS Group to ensure that senior state officials retain the right to use the diplomatic passport after the end of their term of office, for the duration of their duties. Given that our Group of Members does not have a member in this working body, and that is why we have not yet had the opportunity to express our position, let me say that in our Group we believe that such an extension of the beneficiaries to the diplomatic passport after the expiry of the post is neither appropriate nor necessary. Such practices are not found in other regulations, and even in real life the movement of people and goods into other countries of travel documents is becoming less liberal. The proposal includes some minor changes that are necessary due to those changes or to comply with other provisions. We will be happy to contribute our votes to all these innovations, and we will fully support the text. However, we will not support the amendment to Articles 8 and 10, because we believe that the current text adequately regulates this matter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u145	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u146	Dear Mr President, Mr Secretary of State. The proposed amendment to the travel documents law is undoubtedly welcome. Its substantial change, which introduces the possibility for citizens to apply for a second passport on justified grounds, will reduce the problems that have proved to be bad in practice. It is mainly about travelling to countries in the Middle East, as there has been a problem for journalists, students, pilots, businessmen and only Slovenian tourists for a long time, so that their acquired stamp at the time of entry into one country prevents them from entering another country. In practice, these problems were resolved by replacing, destroying or deliberately losing passengers’ passports, which is certainly not a suitable solution. The current law on travel documents does not allow citizens the possibility of having two passports of the same type at the same time, except for individual categories of persons entitled to a diplomatic or service passport. However, obtaining a visa to enter certain countries may take longer, which means that applicants cannot travel at that time. Such an arrangement may also be constitutionally contested in the light of Article 32 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, which provides for the right to freedom of movement and provides that everyone has the right to move freely, to leave the country and to return at any time, which can be distorted by the current law on travel documents. In the Slovenian National Party's Group, we believe it is right that the solution to the situation should be sought by the legislator and we support the proposed solutions, in particular the possibility of issuing two travel documents of the same type, allowing for travel also during the time of obtaining a visa in one of the passports. In doing so, the citizen will be able to obtain a second passport of the same type only with justified entitlement to issue it and not automatically. In addition, other amendments to the travel documents law, such as the harmonisation of diplomatic and service travel documents and the harmonisation of expression with other legislation, the harmonisation of provisions with the law on identity cards and the provision of easier means for the service of travel documents in the most urgent cases, and the harmonisation of the provisions of photocopying and management and the integration of the travel documents record with the law on the protection of personal data, are welcome. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, we will support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Travel Documents Act.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u147	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Milan Gumzar. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u148	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Colleagues and colleagues, Secretary of State, welcome! The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Travel Charter Act will be supported within the Group of the Liberal Democracy and will give the following position. Certain categories of citizens, such as businessmen, pilots, journalists and the like, face problems when they cannot use the passport at a time when they are obtaining a visa to enter a country or when they enter one country, such as Israel, Egypt, Jordan. According to current legislation, it is not possible to obtain a second passport, since the Travel Documents Act provides that only one travel document of the same type can be held by a citizen. The issue cannot also be solved by the issue of a diplomatic or service passport under the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, since the Travel Charter Act itself lists a category of persons entitled to a particular type of travel document. The purpose of issuing an official or diplomatic passport is to facilitate the performance of a particular function and associated activities of a person who normally performs functions in the highest national authorities related to the proper presentation and performance of tasks abroad and the appropriate presentation in the international environment. On the basis of the proposed addition to Article 2 of the Travel Documents Act, the citizen will exceptionally be able to obtain a second passport of the same type and, on the basis of an additional Article 23, he will have to give particular justification on the basis of the application. The applicable travel documents law provides that a travel document may be served with the competent authority or by mail. The mode of service shall be chosen by the national when applying for a travel document. In view of the different life situations that may give rise to the submission of an application alone or arise from the time of application until the issuance of a travel document, death abroad, treatment abroad, urgent business abroad, the place of the document just prior to departure and so on, the whole procedure or part of the procedure for issuing a travel document from registration of the application to the production and service of the document shall be carried out as soon as possible. The service is now often an unnecessary obstacle. On the basis of the proposed addition to Article 23a, the travel document may also be served in the most urgent cases with the authorised manufacturer of the travel documents immediately after manufacture. This, however, confers on the manufacturer of the travel documents a service authorisation. The mode of service will be shown in the travel documents record, which ensures the control of the service. The additional possibility of service will enable the acquisition of a travel document as soon as possible after its manufacture, independent of the working time of the administrative unit or business unit of Post Slovenia. In preparing the proposal for a law, the applicant sought to resolve life situations in a practical way when setting the conditions of interest expressed for the possession of two passports. At the same time, the number of beneficiaries to two passports will be limited to cases of real urgency. The new legal solution is in line with the legal solutions of other countries. According to previous information on the possibility of simultaneous possession of two travel documents by other countries, the uniform practice of the Republic of Slovenia will be in practice abroad. A comparative analysis of foreign legislation shows that the vast majority of countries allow their citizens to have two travel documents at the same time. Foreign countries do not identify any potential misuse of travel documents due to the simultaneous possession of two documents. In the Republic of Slovenia, however, the Travel Charter Act already prohibits the giving, sale or lending of a travel document and the use of a foreign travel document. Such an act is also a crime. For various reasons they have businessmen, journalists, humanitarian workers, and could also list, there are many difficulties in carrying out their profession or mission in different countries due to the mutual non-recognition of different countries. In the Middle East, for example, Israel’s entry visa to passport holders is sufficient to prevent the holder of this passport from entering a number of other countries. In line with the practice of many other members of the European Union with this amendment of the law, Slovenia also allows its citizens and citizens to carry out their profession or mission without interference independently from the relations between the various countries, so we will support the amendment of the law in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. But we will not support the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u149	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u150	Dear Mr President, the distinguished Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! Marriage is needed for a number of reasons. The main purpose of the law is to remove the obstacles to its implementation. For the first time, the possibility of obtaining two travel documents is being regulated, which has been possible in 22 comparable countries so far. The service of the travel document directly to the manufacturer is very important, which can significantly shorten the procedure and time of obtaining the passport in emergencies. It is a number of professions that need this in particular when working abroad. It is very important that it changes and improves the selection of persons who can obtain a business or diplomatic passport. For example, there will be a significant increase in the number of people who can get it. A minor will also be able to obtain a travel document because of parenting. The law also brings some other improvements that will facilitate the implementation of the law and increase the benefits for owners. By means of amendments, the home labour body has removed the reasoned comments of the Legal and Legislative Service and has thus removed the last concerns as to whether the law can be supported. For the sake of this, the Parliamentary Group of Unaffiliated Members will unitedly support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u151	Thank you very much. We have ended our shifts in the positions of the Group of Members. We are moving on to the debate on the article and the amendments tabled to be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 2 February 2011. I am putting to the debate Article 8 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Mira Friday has spoken. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u152	Thank you so much for saying that. In this amended Article 21, we propose that the validity of this second travel document should not exceed the validity of the first passport. We believe that the validity of the second passport should be defined more precisely and that its validity should also be linked, in addition to other reasons, to the issue itself in conjunction with Article 23 of this Act. According to our assessment, it is an appropriate and appropriate solution that complements the validity of the second passport, and in this way we also follow the security reasons which are also very important in the application of this second passport. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u153	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? Secretary of State, mag. Lah, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u154	Thank you very much. As regards the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party to Article 8 of the proposal for the amendment of the Law, it should first of all be stressed that we are not talking about a duplicate or a duplicate of the passport, but we are talking about a separate instrument issued independently of the first instrument issued and also the deadlines for the validity of the issuance of such a document are now laid down in the law. We are talking about terms 3, 5, 10 years, we are also talking about the so-called penalty period for those who treat the passport inappropriately and lose it in five years twice or more – this is only a one-year passport. Thus, it would be very unusual for the issue of the second passport to be hand-cuffed to the issue of the first passport. If, for example, the first passport was issued this year and the second one was issued in five years, it would, of course, be unduly restricted. This practice is also not present in other comparable countries. And there's something else. The passport is limited to years of issue, in such a case as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party, even if the passport could be issued within a few days or a period of validity for a few days, depending on when the other passport is issued to a beneficiary. Of course, a different date in the passport could also represent some stigmatization of the holder of this passport, since from the very date of the passport there could be some prediction as to the category of the holder in fact and what his travel habits are, where he travels and so on. Finally, the adoption of such an amendment would also have certain financial implications, as such a solution as proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party would also require a change in the passport records. One thing is very important: travel documents also charge an administrative fee which depends on the time of validity of the passport issued.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? I guess not, so I'm closing the debate. We're moving on to Article 10. I am putting to the debate Article 10 and the amendment of the SDS Group of Members. Anybody want to talk? Miro Friday, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u156	Thanks again for saying that. In the amended article 23, we propose to add a second sentence to paragraph 11 which reads: "The application for a second passport must be accompanied by a valid passport of the same type referred to in Article 2(1) of this Law and a photograph in the physical or digital form of the prescribed size, equivalent to a photograph in the applicable passport of the same type, showing its true image, unless the same photograph is stored in the electronic repository of photographs for personal documents". This amendment complements the provision defining the application for the issue of this second passport, concerning a photograph which must at least be submitted to the documentation. We believe that the photograph that the applicant has to attach to the second passport must be the same as the photograph in this first passport because it simply shows the image. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u157	Thank you very much. Anybody want to talk? Mag. Lah, Secretary of State, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u158	The adoption of the amendment to Article 10 proposed by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members is unacceptable and not supported by the law's proponents. The purpose of the amendment is to allow another passport to be issued to someone, and of course to those who often travel, say, for some economic reasons to other countries, and it may be necessary to wait for a visa to be issued so that they can enter this country, and in this case they cannot submit this first passport to the request for a second passport. It is indisputably already stated in the law that the identity of the passport applicants can be demonstrated by other personal documents such as a ID card or a driving licence. The fact is also that the second passport will in most cases require a full-year person who has already issued the first passport valid for 10 years. Of course, the reasons for issuing the second passport may arise several years after the issue of the first passport, and we cannot expect and ask the party to submit an identical photograph after a few years for the request for the issue of the second passport as it was attached to the issue or for the application for the issuance of the first passport, given that we need to know that the photographs in the digital form are stored only one year in the cartridge of the photographs and after that time are deleted from the application. As was said, it would probably be inappropriate to expect someone to keep a similar photo for five, six, seven, eight, nine years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u159	Thank you. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 10? I guess not. I'm closing the debate. The amendments will be decided in accordance with the timing of the sitting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 27. On the day-to-day basis, this is the defence proposal for the adoption of the first indent of paragraph 39. Member of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation, he should give the floor to a representative or a representative of the Government. I'm guessing the government isn't present. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth as the working body of the mother. I give the floor to the President to present the report of the Committee. Mag. Majda Potter. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u160	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 39(1) of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage submitted by the Government of RS for consideration was addressed by the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth at its 25th regular meeting on 18 January this year. The Committee was also informed of the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and of the opinion of the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport of 13 January 2011. Mr Stojan Pelko, State Secretary of State, explained in the opening that Article 39 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage lays down the right to compensation when conditions for the economic exploitation of the cultural monument have deteriorated to the owner of the cultural monument and cannot be replaced under the protection regime by another activity. In recent times, cultural monuments owners have submitted claims for compensation or compensation on the grounds that the property has become a cultural monument, irrespective of the deterioration of the conditions for economic exploitation of the property or the limited possibility of construction. According to the Court’s position in an administrative dispute in one of the two cases, the owner would also be compensated or compensated for any limitation of property rights, irrespective of the deterioration of economic exploitation, as provided for in Article 39 of the current law, which would result in a real injury to the State. He explained that the Ministry of Law and Law had agreed on the need for and admissibility of the content of the authentic interpretation and, in accordance with its comments, had also prepared proposals for amendments to the Committee with which the intention had been reached, where the legal provision did not change and any damage was prevented. In her additional explanation, the representative of the Legal and Legislative Service said that the proposed amendment removes the comments made by the Legal and Legislative Service and thus further explains the Commission of the National Council for Culture, Science, Education and Sport, which, in its opinion, supported the proposal of an authentic interpretation. The committee then moved, in its opening part, to the question of whether the presented authentic interpretation should be adopted and, without a specific discussion, unanimously supported it. Following the adoption of this Decision, the Committee has yet to consider the text of the authentic interpretation of the law. On the proposal of the proposer following the Legislative and Legal Service, the Committee, pursuant to paragraph 3 of Rule 150 of the Rules of Procedure, proposed to the National Assembly the adoption of the following amendments, which are recorded in the report of the meeting. This is an amendment to the text of an authentic explanation. As a result of this correction, an amendment to the title of the authentic interpretation had to be proposed. The Committee proposes that the National Assembly adopt a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 39(1) and (2) of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage and a proposal for its text, together with the proposed amendments to the Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u161	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Alexander Zorn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u162	Thank you very much. Good-bye, everybody! The Government submitted to the National Assembly the text of the authentic interpretation of Article 39(1) of Article ZVKD for acceptance. The main reason stated by the Government is that a number of applications for compensation or compensation have been submitted recently because the property has become a cultural monument, irrespective of the deterioration of the conditions for economic exploitation of the property or the limited possibility of construction. We probably agree that the aim of the protection of cultural heritage is to enable this heritage to be preserved in an integrated manner in the public interest, as set out also in Articles 1 and 2 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. The protection of cultural heritage represents various measures of the State, the provinces and the municipalities aimed at the existence and enrichment of the heritage. Article 5, first paragraph, provides that property rights and other real rights in inheritance shall be limited only to the minimum extent necessary for the exercise of protection. The protection of cultural heritage, especially a cultural monument, means a limitation of property rights, but the law gives the owner of a monument in a particular case and under certain conditions the right to compensation, namely Article 39, and the right to compensation can be understood as a reflection of the principle of proportionality, which lays down the limits of the permissible restriction of property rights in the public interest. The first paragraph of Article 39 therefore provides in which case the owner of the monument is entitled to compensation. The question whether the intervention in property rights, represented by the protection of cultural heritage or a protected cultural monument, is admissible in the case of the proposed authentic interpretation. But it's questionable when this is the case. The Government has proposed the text of an authentic interpretation of this paragraph that would resolve various doubts, and the Members of the Slovenian Democratic Party support that text and hope that it will help resolve those problems. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u163	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Vito Rožej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u164	Thank you so much for saying that. Perhaps in recent times, even in today’s session, we are faced with slightly more authentic explanations, such as the practice of the National Assembly. It is therefore difficult to assess whether this is because of the different practice of the courts or because of the attempts made by those seeking justice in the courts. However, it is clear in the present case that, in the case of a law on the protection of cultural heritage, it would be possible for a precedent in this area to lead to a case-law which would be detrimental to the interests of that country. However, no one claims that the right to compensation or compensation should the cultural monument owner deteriorate the conditions for the economic exploitation of the cultural monument under the safeguard regime and cannot be replaced by another activity in order not to pay compensation in this case. The fact is, however, that it is necessary to focus on the economic activities already under way, not on all the options that would, if, under all conditions, happen once or once. This authentic explanation, which is before us, stipulates that the deterioration of the conditions for the economic exploitation of the cultural monument is considered only in cases where the property was used economically before the declaration as a cultural monument by the owner prior to the restrictions under the protection regime on the exploitation of income for life. Under this option, land construction under a safeguard regime cannot be considered economic exploitation. Due to a misinterpretation of the provisions, the purchases of land declared a cultural monument are in practice for the purpose of obtaining compensation, which is considered to be an abuse. With this authentic explanation, we want to prevent speculations that appear to be understood, not only in areas under the protection of cultural heritage, but also elsewhere. There is also a case in our Members' lines when the Member, because he knows what the building plans are in Ljubljana and where a wall area will change and expand, went to rebuild the facade of his house, because this way he will be able to survive more for his facility from the future investor. In recent times, owners of cultural monuments have submitted claims for compensation or compensation on grounds that are not based on the deterioration of the conditions for economic exploitation and on the position of the court in an administrative dispute in one of the two cases, compensation or compensation for any limitation on property rights, irrespective of the deterioration of exploitation, as provided for in Article 39 of that Act, which would result in the State's prospects for real damage or abandonment of monumental protection in a variety of areas, which would also not be in the interest of that State. In the Group of Members, we are convinced that a new policy is necessary and that we will support it as such. We are pleased, however, that with the amendments we will be able to complement the proposed authentic explanation in a way that will also satisfy all the legal criteria, that we will not change the basic intentions of the law and its articles, but that we will do what the authentic interpretation does, explain how and what will make the case more simple, clearer in these cases and that the State and its interests will not be harmed unjustifiablely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u165	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u166	Your Honor! Article 39 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage provides for the right to compensation in the event that the owner of a cultural monument is worsened or limited to the conditions for the economic exploitation of a cultural monument and, under the protection regime, the loss of income cannot be replaced in a different way. It is quite clear that there is a loss of income from the economic activity already taking place on the cultural monument, but the owner had to restrict or even abandon it because of the prescribed regime in the decommissioning decree. The owner shall be entitled to compensation only on condition that, due to the safeguard arrangements at the monument, he is no longer in a position to carry out an economic activity or that his right to exercise it is limited. In recent times, however, there have been cases where monument owners are filing claims for compensation only because each property has been declared a cultural monument, although this has had no impact on the deterioration of the conditions for economic exploitation of the property. More. Some owners refer to the right to compensation in any case of limitation of property rights, not only in the case of the economic exploitation in question, which is contrary to the provisions of Article 39(1) and (2). In one of the judgments, the Administrative Court also stated this, although such a position is totally contrary to the dictates of those provisions and their purpose. This has also led to speculative purchases of land declared a cultural monument for the purpose of obtaining compensation, which can be no different from the abuse of those provisions and, as a result, can cause real damage to that country. Members of the Slovenian People's Party agree with the proponent of the authentic interpretation of the said article of the Act, as it will eliminate any doubt and it will be expressly stated that the conditions for eligibility of compensation are met only and only in cases where the matter has been used for economic activity or has been used economically before the declaration of a cultural monument, and the owner of this title has obtained income or the protection regime established by the decision on the declaration of a cultural monument has determined a different economic use than was established before the declaration. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we will also support the proposed amendment of the Committee to the proposal for an authentic interpretation, followed by the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and fully supported the proposal for an authentic interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u167	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by mag. Your Clavor. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u168	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. Dear Members and Members! It has already been said that, at the meeting of the home committee, we all agreed that it was reasonable and necessary to adopt an authentic explanation for the first and second paragraphs of Article 39 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage in the work relating to eligibility for compensation for cases where the owner of a cultural monument must suspend or limit the economic exploitation of a cultural monument by a decree declaring a cultural monument there. In spite of the fact that the Rule of Law has expressed a dilemma as to whether the uncertainty of this provision exists in this case, in our Group of Members we agree with the proposaler that this authentic interpretation must be accepted, however, as a response to the prevention of any different interpretations, which has already been demonstrated in practice, in the opinion and in the explanation of the proposal. In our Group of Members, we agree that in this case the legislator must use authentic explanations to avoid abuses of the purpose for which such compensation has been provided by law and also in terms of legal certainty and equality of beneficiaries with a uniform and binding interpretation of the provision while recognising such refunds. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u169	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia will be presented by Ljubo Germič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u170	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Mr Secretary of State with co-workers, colleagues and colleagues! On a proposal from the Minister of Culture, the RS Government submitted a proposal for an authentic interpretation of Article 39 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. This Article lays down the right to compensation in the event that the cultural monument owner's conditions for the economic exploitation of the cultural monument deteriorate and cannot be replaced under the protection regime by another activity. In recent times, cultural monuments owners have submitted claims for compensation or compensation on the grounds that the property has become a cultural monument, irrespective of the deterioration of the conditions for economic exploitation of the property or the limited possibility of construction. In practice, this means that individuals find that a particular facility has been listed under the protection of cultural heritage regime, such an object, when listed, is also purchased with a view to exercising the right to compensation for restricting the economic exploitation of such an object, irrespective of the fact that it was not economically exploited before the declaration of a protected facility. The competent ministry has therefore drawn up a proposal for an authentic interpretation that achieves the intention of the legislator to compensate material damage to those owners of cultural monuments or objects belonging to the regime for the protection of cultural heritage which were economically exploited by such an object before it was declared a cultural monument. In the process of adopting this authentic interpretation, which is before us today, in the House of Members, we have dealt mainly with concerns related to the individual's right to free disposal of his property, which, in the case of this authentic interpretation and this law as a whole, conflicted with the right or duty of the State to protect certain objects, because their preservation in its original form is a wider interest of the entire Slovenian society because of their cultural and historical importance. It was precisely because of this dilemma that we were facing ourselves that the LAG also made its comments on the proposal for an authentic explanation. On the basis of these comments, the text of the proposed authentic interpretation was corrected by an amendment which limits the conditions for eligibility for loss of income compensation in a way that does not go beyond the provisions of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, while preventing the speculative interest of those who wish to take advantage of the preservation and protection of cultural heritage in Slovenia. Thus, the text of the authentic interpretation clearly provides that the conditions for eligibility for compensation under Article 39(1) and (2) of the Cultural Heritage Protection Act have been fulfilled in those cases where the matter has been used for economic activity before the declaration for a cultural monument and has been used economically by the owner to prevent restrictions under the safeguard regime by exploiting the goods by earning income or having earned income on the basis of the rules governing the activity or use of such a thing, or where the safeguard regime provides for a different economic activity or use from that prior to the declaration. In view of the above, we will support the proposal of an authentic explanation at the LDS. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u171	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Andrej Magajn. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u172	Your Honor! Members of the Group of Non-Aligned Members support the adoption of the authentic interpretation of Article 39(1) of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage, and at the same time the amendments adopted on the Committee of Mothers. It happened that the owners of cultural monuments applied for compensation or compensation on the grounds that the property was declared a cultural monument, irrespective of the deterioration of the conditions for economic exploitation of the property, or the limited possibility of construction. Article 39 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage provides for the right to compensation in the event that conditions for the economic exploitation of the cultural monument deteriorates to the owner of the cultural monument and cannot be replaced under the protection regime by another activity. This is an explicit loss of income of economic activity, which has already taken place on the cultural monument. The conditions for granting compensation are the existing economic activity followed by the adoption of the act and the establishment of the regime and the modification or suspension of the economic activity. In the course of the proceedings, the owner must prove the loss of income. While this is a more unpleasant situation for the owners, it is fair and only way to eliminate the speculations that have taken place so far.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u173	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by the mag. Andrea Richtar.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u174	Dear President, Secretary of State, Mr Stojan Pelko, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The protection of natural and cultural heritage is the responsibility of individuals after the end of the Republic of Slovenia, and it is the responsibility of the State and local communities and, of course, the owners of cultural values themselves. Due to the interest of ensuring that its cultural values are maintained as much as possible for the future, cultural monuments are subject to specific rules for the implementation of protection, and this is what we call safeguard regimes. At the same time, they have an impact on the limitation of one another, with a protected right, namely the right to own property, but it is in the public interest that certain restrictions can be provided for. These mainly relate to economic exploitation and in these cases, the State provided for compensation in Article 39 of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage for the loss of a certain part of the income. The implementation of the law in practice shows that it does not follow the legislator's full intention to limit the granting of refunds to property whose conditions for exploitation of the monument are exacerbated by the establishment of this safeguard regime. This compensation should be granted only to those holders who are engaged in any economic activity, whether it is an agricultural activity or a tourist activity on a particular property, before declaring it a monument. Many owners, especially new buyers of cultural historical monuments, demand compensation for the inability to use, even if these were declared a cultural monument before they bought them. And in one, or not yet a judicial judgment, the court pleased them. Such a decision may further trigger a multitude of requests from old and new owners who, due to the special protection regime in the cultural monument area, must not build, work without limit on agricultural areas or otherwise exploit their property. Even more. There are speculative purchases because future purchasers are not encouraged by a noble desire to protect and preserve cultural heritage, but only by the motive of receiving compensation from the state budget. The Social Democrats will support the proposal of an authentic interpretation due to the above, together with the amendments tabled by the mother's working body. By adopting an authentic explanation, we will ensure, on the one hand, that potential investors in rebuilding the necessary cultural monuments will not only lead to a short-term interest in raising capital and, on the other hand, to prevent real damage to the state budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u175	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation and on the amendments of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, which fully replace this proposed text of the authentic interpretation or complement this title of the authentic interpretation. The word has magic. Majda Potter. [[He doesn't want a word.]] Andrey Magain has the word. [[He's not here.]] Franco Yuri. [[He doesn't want to.]] Franci Kek. [[He's not here.]] Victory, Jelinczych. [[No, no, ……]] Vito Rojej. [[No, no, ……]] Franz Jursha. [[No, no, ……]] Aloys Potočnik. [[No, no, ……]] Tadj Slapnik. [[No, no, ……]] Alexander Zorn. [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Andrea Richtar. [[No, no, ……]] Proposer, Government. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u176	Ladies and gentlemen of the House! Allow me only to thank you for the support of the parliamentary groups, which had already been expressed on the parental committee with 12 votes in favour and none against. I would also like to thank the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly for having listened to both the argument of admissibility and the need for an authentic explanation. But if you don't mind, that's why I stopped by because Ambassador Richter mentioned that not-so-lawly judgment. Ras would inform you that the effort in this authentic explanation, even in this case, has already produced fruit and the court has taken this authentic interpretation into account in this interim period, which we can conclude from the following dates and events. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u177	Thank you very much. This concludes the debate on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation. We will decide on the text of the authentic interpretation or amendments of the Committee in accordance with the time frame of the meeting today in the framework of the vote, half an hour after the end of the 28th item of the agenda. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 28. On the day-to-day basis, that is the defence proposal for the adoption of the authentic interpretation of the second indent of the third paragraph 4. ARTICLE OF THE LEGISLATION LEGISLATIVE PERSONS IN ECONOMIC SOCIETY IN MOST OF THE REPUBLIC OF SLOVENIA AND LOCAL LOCAL COMMUNITY The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation, he should give the floor to a representative or a representative of the Government. She'll be here in two minutes. Then I'm adjourning the session. We'll resume in five minutes, it's 4:43. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u178	Dear colleagues and colleagues! We shall proceed with the adjournment of the sitting and the 28th item of the agenda. I find that there is not yet a representative or representative of the Government, even though we have set time for this. Let's move on. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation was considered by the Committee on the Economy as a parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Matjaž Han, Chairman of the Committee. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u179	Thank you very much, Madam President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! At its 29th meeting, on 20 January 2011, the Economic Committee considered the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the second indent of Article 4(3) of the Law on the remuneration of business persons in companies owned by a majority of the Republic of Slovenia and by the local self-government communities submitted to the National Assembly by the Government. In an additional explanation for the proposal for an authentic interpretation, the Minister of Economy explained that, in carrying out the checks on compliance, the Law on the remuneration of managers in companies owned by a majority of the Republic of Slovenia and by self-government local communities carried out by the Ministry as a competent authority in the previous year was found to be unclear in the second indent of the third subparagraph of Article 4 of the Act. In particular, ambiguities have been shown in the concept of the basic payment in companies in the group, where there are different concepts of what the basic payment is in companies and what the group is. With a view to abolishing the basic salary calculation of the law in the future, the Government therefore proposes the adoption of an authentic interpretation in which the concepts or elements of the calculation and the calculation of the basic salary of directors in these companies are clarified more precisely and more precisely. In doing so, the Government wants to give all those who are bound to comply with the provisions of this Law very clear instructions on how and how to proceed in the future. The written opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service was presented by the Head of Service and explained that it assesses that the need for an authentic interpretation of the second indent of Article 4(3) is not demonstrated and that the proposed wording of the authentic interpretation may alter the meaning of the second indent of Article 4(3). The proposal to adopt an authentic interpretation is therefore not appropriate in their view. Following the introductory explanations by the representatives of the Government and the Legal and Legislative Service, the Committee has moved on to the question of whether the proposed authentic interpretation should be accepted. In the debate, most members considered that an authentic explanation should be adopted as it ensured a fairer, more understandable and more uniform methodology for calculating average gross wages. The members of the Committee pointed out that in practice it has been shown that the ways in which the legislator's will is sought are being sought and that the legislator's will and the calculation of gross average wages in some cases have obviously been played. In order to avoid the right to free interpretation of how gross average wages are calculated, an authentic interpretation is necessary and justified in this case. In addition, most members felt that the law should be respected, and such mechanisms should be put in place to ensure that the law applies equally. On the contrary, some members of the Committee felt that there was no need for an authentic explanation, since the doctrine of the second indent of Article 4(3) of the Law was to be clear and unequivocal. Thus, in the view of these members, the Government should, if it assesses that the interpretation of the article in question in practice causes problems or confusion, proceed to the drafting of a new law to remedy the alleged misinterpretation of the second indent of Article 4(3). At the end of the discussion, the Committee adopted the following decision by 8 votes in favour and 2 votes against: The Committee on the Economy proposes to the National Assembly that the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the second indent of the third indent of Article 4 of the Law on the remuneration of business persons in companies owned by a majority of the Republic of Slovenia and by the local self-government communities be adopted in the text submitted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u180	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Tadej Slapnik. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u181	Dear President, Madam Minister, colleague and colleague! The economic assessment of the situation in Slovenia in view of the ongoing financial crisis and the economic recession also requires appropriate measures with regard to remuneration in companies where the Republic of Slovenia is directly or indirectly a holder of a majority share of the company or both. Until the beginning of 2010, the regulation of directors' income in companies was not under the authority of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, even if they were owned directly or indirectly by the State. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia could only recommend to members of the supervisory authorities in companies owned by the majority of the country how they should act in determining the salaries of directors. That is why the National Assembly is proposed by the former Minister of Economy 4. 3. 2010 adopted the Act on the remuneration of managers in companies owned by a majority of the Republic of Slovenia and local self-government communities, which provides a framework for members of supervisory authorities to decide on employment contracts for management. The law is intended to establish a single system of remuneration and rights of managers in companies where the Republic of Slovenia is directly or indirectly a holder of a majority share of the company. They are intended to promote the long-term sustainability of society and in line with the achievements and financial situation of society. Unfortunately, we find that even though the law is clear and clear for us, it cannot prevent that individual managers with unethical conduct supported by double legal opinions would not afford excessive personal benefits or payments for work that the law does not allow. Last year, competent services at the Ministry of the Economy reviewed contracts for the employment of directors in 300 Slovenian companies and discovered some violations of the law. They said five fines and there are now 15 proceedings in 13 companies. The most used example of attempted fraud was that some included a variable in the calculation of average gross wages, the number of companies involved in the group, and earned an average gross salary in the group. However, in most cases the average gross wage calculated is higher than the average gross salary calculated without taking into account this variable and consequently at the final amount of the monthly basic payment. In order to abolish the proposal for an authentic interpretation in the Zares Group – a new policy – with a view to the future fraud of the law in relation to the calculation of the basic salary. With regard to the most cumbersome case of attempted fraud of the law, the established infringement procedure for unlawfully established remuneration or payment by the Director-General of Post Slovenia, and by Post paid double legal opinions and the conduct of the professional services of Post Slovenia in this regard, some ink has already been spilled in the media. Perhaps most of you are also aware of the unusual conduct of the former President of the Supervisory Board of Post, Mr Drag Bahun, who also attended the last meeting of the Supervisory Board of Post, where he explained the circumstances of the creation of the previous model of payment, and thus supported the Director-General of Post in spite of the apparent illegality, and the conduct of some former supervisors who, in an offence brought against them by the unlawful payment of the Director-General, dispute the proceedings because of the fact that the former Supervisory Board would not decide in accordance with the rules. That is why we would like to draw attention to the above-mentioned disputed behaviour in the Zares Group – a new policy from this city, as well as to the other contentious provisions of the contract on the management of the Director-General of Post Slovenia. I would like to point out that in addition to the contested salary, some rights or ways of exercising these rights seem unusual to me, even though they do not fall within the scope of the Law of Lakhovnik. This is mainly about certain ways of paying the Business Performance Award, compensation for the competitive clause and discharge before the expiry of the mandate. The question is whether, in the case of Post Slovenia, the Supervisory Board, because of the unusual contract concluded by the former Supervisory Council under the leadership of Mr Bahun, the so-called Bahun Treaty, may, despite irregularities, resolve the members of the administration without the supervisory board and the owner, that is, the State, pay high compensation for the latter or not at all to be dischargeable. The latter seems scandalous to me at a time when there are massive layoffs. As if in Slovenia we had so-called executive socialism or that the State would grant disproportionate rights to directors in companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Slovenia. I therefore hope and expect that the competent authority, in this case the Agency for the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia, will review individual contracts of managers in Posta Slovenije as well as in all other companies in which it exercises corporate rights and that such derogations or disproportionate rights of managers will be eliminated.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u182	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party will be presented by Janez Ribič. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u183	Your Honor! Strange things are happening in this Parliament in recent days, you might say, for weeks. Apparently, in this temple of democracy, as we like to call it, we no longer respect any authority whatsoever. If it seems appropriate for a respected coalition to dispute the decisions of the Constitutional Court and to vehemently explain how they are wrong, then, of course, we cannot be surprised that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service does not count anything. Of course, both when the coalition doesn't fit. Interesting is this argument, which was presented by a coalition representative at a meeting of the parent working body. You know, if someone gives an opinion, and in this case an opinion is given, we respect that opinion in any case, but we do not necessarily agree with it. And I think that there is room in this House for professional solutions, particularly legal and legal issues, but let us speak. Especially if there are legitimate reasons for someone to think differently from what the Law-Legal Service thinks. So the ball can be round, but it can also be rectangular if it suits us better. I will be happy to quote this thought on any other occasion when you will take a fanatical oath to respect the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Let's go back to the proposal of an authentic explanation. A law was adopted, the purpose of which was the same as it was. Time will show whether he was good or bad, what influence he had on Slovenian management. The fact is, in some parts, it is unclear. In a specific case, it has been demonstrated in practice that the relevant standard allows the use of different methodologies for calculating average gross wages leading to different final solutions. We firmly believe that the government is trying to use the National Assembly for a servant to resolve a particular dispute resulting from a vague message. We therefore fully support the position of the Legislative and Legal Service, so that no authentic interpretation should be used in this case. If these cases have occurred, a change of law needs to be made, and things need to be settled forward so that they are crystal clear and clear. In the Slovenian People's Party we support the intent of the law and its content so that there is no mistake. But we think we're making a mistake again. We agree that this needs to be regulated, but in a different way – in a manner in which the legislative and legal services are also posted in a competent and professional opinion. If we want to, we can supplement the law and change the content. We therefore do not support the adoption of an authentic explanation in the Slovenian People's Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u184	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Democratic Party of pensioners of Slovenia will be presented by Anton Urh. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u185	Thank you very much for the floor, Mr President, Madam Secretary-General with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues. At the beginning of last year, in the National Assembly, we adopted the Law on the remuneration of managers in companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Slovenia and the self-governance of local communities, as huge payments to directors showed the need to limit the remuneration of the latter. At the time of the financial crisis, which we still feel intensely today in our country, especially in all segments of its operation, there will be differences in the level of remuneration of workers and businesspeople, particularly in companies that are majority owned by the country and by local communities. Thus, government recommendations, which have proved to be ineffective in some cases, have been raised to the legal level. This law has thus set uniform criteria for determining the remuneration of members of administrations, executive directors, managers and procurators in these companies. In view of the immediate enforcement of the law, the public has already been informed of its effects and the results show that the relevant provisions of the law have been consistently followed. Unfortunately, we must find that, despite the Ministry of the Economy's warnings, some have deliberately interpreted the adopted rules in their own way and thus bypassed the purpose of determining the calculation methodology under the pretext that the latter allows for a completely unjustified and unjustifiable interpretation of such an interpretation. Therefore, Members of the DeSUS Group firmly believe that such anomalies are totally unacceptable, so we will also support the proposed authentic interpretation of the law in order to determine in the future the uncertainty of the laws and thus the unacceptable act of law is also impossible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u186	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovic will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u187	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Another good day for all colleagues and colleagues, ladies and ministers with a co-worker in the late afternoon. In fact, two options are being discussed today: either authentic interpretation or amendment of the law or amendment of the law. In order to make it slightly clearer, in the third paragraph of Article 4 of the second indent, there is an article which states: "In determining the amount of the basic variable remuneration and deduction, these limits shall apply" and one indent, "the basic payment shall be fixed in relation to the average gross remuneration paid in companies in the group or in the company, if there is no group, after the previous financial year." Thus, after one year, this article in this law has become controversial since March of last year. The Government explains why, today, a proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the second indent of Article 4(3) is before us, states that the main reason for the proposal for an authentic interpretation of the second indent of Article 4(3), which I have read earlier, is the law on the remuneration of managers that this indent is unclear. Well, after one year we found that this is unclear, and specifically that the uncertainty stems from understanding what society is and what the group is supposed to be. With a view to remedying this ambiguity, we therefore have before us a proposal for an authentic explanation. This is also clearly stated in the government proposal. As it is written as a proposal for an authentic interpretation text, of course, it could simply be an integral part of the amendment of the existing law and it could be written that "the third paragraph of Article 4 of the second indent is amended to read" and that what is written as an authentic interpretation – I will not read – is written down or written down that a new indent is added in the third paragraph of which we are referring to, stating that more precise explanations are set out in the sub-law act. However, the matter should be resolved by amending the law or by amending the law in the light of these uncertainties and in the light of all the criticisms that have been made. This claim or this assumption, a thought that is not only in the Slovenian National Party, but probably elsewhere, has been confirmed and also legally proved by the Legislative and Legal Service, which states that an authentic interpretation is necessary when an act allows itself to have conflicting interpretations, but at the same time the Legislative and Legal Services of this National Assembly have found that in this case it is not an opposing interpretation and that it is not an interpretation of legal standards, but a modification of legal standards and, as such, cannot be the subject of an authentic interpretation institution. More smarter at this last point after today's long day, at least we, in the Slovenian National Party, seem to be in harm's way. If, however, we could be united that it is right to supplement this ambiguity in the law with the text that is written down, or to be supplemented in a sub-legislative act, to be very clear, then it is a shame that when we adopt this decision on authentic interpretation, we will come in contravention of the assessment and legal position of the Legal Service, which, once again, I stress, says that in this case it is not an contradictory interpretation, but it is only a certain amendment. This is how we assess and think it would be good to reject the proposal for the adoption of the authentic interpretation that is before us today, when we are aware that a new law should be prepared – not at all a novel, but only a change in the existing law or, if you want, Article 4, of another, I do not know what it is called, the second chapter of the said law. This is therefore the position of the Slovenian National Party. No — authentic explanations, amendments or additions to the law — yes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u188	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u189	Thank you for your word. Hello, Mr Vice President, colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Minister with a co-worker! The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the second indent of the third paragraph of Article 4 of the Law on the remuneration of managers in companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Slovenia and local self-government communities will be supported in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. At the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we have already warned about possible dangers when adopting the Law on the remuneration of managers in companies owned by a majority of the country, such as: the play of legislation and the possibility of different circuits to be used by management. And so today we are witnessing, let's say, the rehabilitation of one of those circuits that certain companies are explaining to themselves or could be interpreting legislation for themselves. However, we have supported this law in the LDS of the Member States because of the known excesses in the salaries of senior managers, and we believe that if it has been adopted and is in force, then it must also be respected in the rule of law and that any derogations must also be duly sanctioned. The problem we are facing is, in fact, the financial and accounting nature, how to calculate the average wages in the company or group of companies. In our view, the law, particularly within the legal framework of which accounting standards are also part, is sufficiently clear and can be fully applied. However, as there appears to be a lack of legislation, the Ministry has drawn up an authentic interpretation of the law, where it further explains the application of the provision setting out the calculation of the average wage. At the LDS Club, we are, in principle, held back until we receive authentic explanations, as they neglect legal space or may also be controversial. That is why we have looked even more closely at the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, which in fact draws attention to the possible constitutional controversy of accepting these authentic interpretations. And we also share this fear in the LDS, so that in the event of the adoption of this authentic explanation it could be annulled in the event of a constitutional dispute, because the authentic interpretation would interfere with the law itself. We also accept the Government's argument that any interpretation of the provisions of the law may lead to conflicting interpretations, which warrants an authentic explanation. As we are aware of our responsibilities in the LDS, as part of this country's legislative body, that we are clear on the purpose of the legislator and that any act of law is totally unacceptable, we have decided, after careful consideration, that we will support this authentic explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u190	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u191	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. At first glance, the decision seems simple: either to support or be against an authentic explanation. The problem arises when we start to think about the arguments, why, or for the authentic explanation, or not, or choose another path, which is also indicated and which is also known. When we were dealing with this problem in the Group of Non-Related Members, we first asked what it was, in fact, whether we also felt that wages should be limited or all the remuneration of the management bodies should be fixed in relation to the average wages in the group or in companies that belong to the group or are not. There's no doubt about it, as far as we're concerned. These salaries, which many, at the time of the adoption of the law, have even been considered to be extremely high, need to be limited and ensured that a measure of fairness is put in place, both in relation to employees and in relation to different companies, horizontally. We have no concerns about limiting wages to managers, but we have concerns. It's embarrassing when we start thinking about how to handle it. And this dilemma has been so much more pronounced in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service and, in our opinion, it is not easy to reject this opinion. In understanding this problem, it is important to remember what the purpose was when the law was adopted. In fact, it was intended at that time to limit our situation of over-remuneration, to limit the wage ratios between employees and employees, and to expose the benefits that will depend on the size of the company that someone is running, as well as on the performance of this company, which can also be measured by the wages that employees receive in this company, and this is also measured by the market position that companies have with or without a more or less monopoly on whether they have a more or less monopoly position or not, especially when it comes to companies owned by a majority of the state or owned by local communities. At the time of adoption, Article 4 was not sufficiently clear. This Article 4 allows for different interpretations, or if we reverse the matter differently, there is no prohibition to apply different methodologies. So if these prohibitions were to be, then it would be clear that an authentic explanation is needed, and now there is serious doubt as to whether or not it is necessary and whether, as we will see later, from the point of view of the Legislative and Legal Service, it is permissible and even necessary. It is undeniable, however, that when we adopted this law, we had a different purpose from the real situation we are now facing. And here's probably the fundamental problem in the argument. If we want to ensure the original purpose, the purpose we had in mind is to choose two ways: either authentic interpretation or amendment of the law, as clearly and unequivocally stated in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. The Group of Unaffiliated Members of the Solidarity Group considers that the authentic interpretation or purpose of the authentic interpretation leads to the provision of the original purpose of this Act. But we estimate that the path, that the way is not appropriate. The legislative and legal service argued this in such a way that it made it clear that the authentic interpretation was unnecessary because there were no conflicting explanations. It also notes that differences within a standard are permissible and possible if they do not exceed the limits of those standards and are not prohibited. No prohibition on the use of the method has been ordered in law, although most of us, if not all, probably agree that the method is the product of accounting ingenuity. Similarly, the Legislative and Legal Service has concluded that the authentic interpretation is not even admissible. If he first says it's not necessary, then it's that she's not admissible, probably even sharpening her position. It is not acceptable, above all, because it is not about explaining what it wants to explain, but it is about trying to change what was written in the standard by changing the content. Therefore, the authentic explanation is not the right way, but the right path is the path we call the amendment of the law. We are therefore a little embarrassed in our Group of Members because we know that the first purpose of this Act must be achieved. We would like to see it achieved in the way it would be legally corrected and in no way disputed. We will therefore listen to the debates and decide after these discussions how we will vote.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u192	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Matevž Frangež.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u193	Respected and respected! Let me remind you that the Law of the National Assembly, which we are considering with authentic interpretation today, has adopted with the awareness that it wants to strengthen the sense of solidarity and justice in our society, in which, in the face of such severe consequences of the economic and social crisis, we cannot afford too many social differences, but also to ensure that the highest paid managers, including state-owned companies, are set up a levelling board that will contribute to increased complacency in our society. This authentic explanation, of course, raises the first question whether an authentic explanation is necessary. We believe it is necessary because the practice has led to different interpretations and different uses of this law. And why, then, do we not go into a change of law and feel that the right course is an authentic explanation of this law? Because we believe that the law in relation to the correct references is clear by correctly applying the relevant standards. As you know, in some cases that have been directly mentioned here today, there have been at least various interpretations, if not even abuses and deliberate misinterpretations of this law, which have also led some managers to pay higher wages than those that could be paid in accordance with the spirit of this law. Many of the representatives of the parliamentary groups have already cited the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service today. Let us make it clear to the Social Democrats that we respect the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service, and respect the position of this service, which we have often referred to ourselves. Nevertheless, we join in the right to say and represent such a different attitude when we reason otherwise. And the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service states among other things: "The purpose and purpose of each authentic interpretation is to communicate the objective will of the legislator on the basis of the text and the meaningful link between standards." First, the text of the law. The second point of the third paragraph of Article 4 of the Act states: "Gross wages shall be fixed in relation to the average gross wage," - I repeat, the average gross salary used is one - "paid in companies, in groups or in societies, if there is no group, in the previous business year." This means that one average salary is determined at the level of companies linked to the group and not the average wages of companies associated with the groups. At the same time, in the part where the Legislative and Legal Service discusses the link to the relevant standards, in our firm belief, the legal standard to which the law relates is the Slovenian accounting standard and not the website of the Statistical Office of the Republic of Slovenia, which is cited by the Legislative and Legal Service of this National Assembly in its opinion. And Slovenian accounting standards are clear at this point. Let me quote: "Perfect digging is pooling the accounts of the parent undertaking and its subsidiaries from item to item by adding the related items of assets, debts, capital, income and expenditure." In other words, the average wage in the group is not calculated by first calculating the average wages of individual companies, and then by the number in the group of related companies, the average wage in the group is calculated by adding the total amount of wages paid in the companies in the group, and this is divided by the total number of workers in the group. In our opinion, this is the objective will of the legislator, which can be determined today by interpretation of the text and by reference to the correct relevant standards; therefore, Slovenian accounting standards. In fact, a different interpretation of this law would lead to a state-owned company, say Telekom, knowingly set up a subsidiary, employing only one worker with a very high salary, and this would completely distort the average wage in the group. As is known to the public, in one particular case, and together, if I am not mistaken, there have been ten out of three hundred violations in the Ministry of Economy inspection, which is also a certain sign that 290 companies have understood the law as they need to be understood, a minority, and a significant minority of ten, as we believe it was not the will of this legislator. And in that particular case, there was a difference in the salary of a specific manager of EUR 2 000 per month. That is why we will support the adoption of this authentic interpretation by the Social Democrats with all our awareness and reasonable arguments.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u194	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by mag. Andrej Vizjak.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u195	Dear Vice-President, Honourable Minister, colleague and colleague! In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support this authentic explanation, for which we have a number of reasons, one that is completely formal. If we want to interfere to this extent with the law or to interpret it, as the proposalr thinks, then this is a strictly formal task, and the law enforcement service has a key word for such strictly formal tasks. The legal and legal service says that interfering in this way with the law with the authentic interpretation is at least unacceptable, and the consequence is that coalition Members are embarrassed, as well as sympathizers of the coalition Members, because they must act and vote beyond what they have always been exposed to as an axiom. So, respectable colleagues from the coalition, if you have any respect for the Law and Legal Service and if you always follow its position, then act now and not now creatively explain, as we have heard before, various aspects. If the law is flawed, in your opinion, and should be supplemented, it would be supplemented or amended in order to have the first postman beheaded, as is obviously the purpose of this law. This is an authentic explanation of the first postman in the Republic of Slovenia. Well, that's kind of a formal part of why we won't support it. However, the subject is somewhat broader and more complex. At the time of the economic crisis, I would expect the Government to encourage the management authorities, as well as the supervisory and economic authorities, to operate as efficiently as possible; to employ them to generate profits and thus generate economic growth and new value in the country. I would therefore expect that all the forces are focused on moving something forward in the economy, this cannot be done only to workers without directors and not only to directors without workers. This can be done with joint effort; and I miss these. Here we have a partial experiment, a very populism, a nice attempt by the former Minister of Economy, who said, but now we're going to have to cut down on the directors' salaries. I wonder why he didn't suggest that we tie the minimum wage of employees to the director's salary and say that no company should pay less than 10% of the CEO's salary. So if someone has 20,000 gross, they should be the lowest wage of 2,000 euros the last one with the lowest salary in the company. No! No! In fact, everything went on average here, and there were many injustices. I believe that there is a measure of these conflict cases, which have aroused this law, that it did not originate from companies, not even in the majority state ownership, but more or less from monopolistic enterprises. I am in favour of administratively restricting wages where someone is alone on the market, where his business outcome does not depend on his performance and business engagement, but because the nature of monopolistic activity has given someone the opportunity to cut off a good part of the cake and thus make a profit. In monopoly companies: yes. There is a need to regulate wages in some way, because they are disappearing because many of these managers have no measure. Then we have companies that are not majority-owned, but are mainly state-owned, where the country, although it does not have a majority share of ownership, controls society. We have quite a few of these cases where the country, together with parastatal companies, actually manages and has a majority of them, but, of course, the situation in such companies is different. Otherwise, it should always be that the salaries of directors depend on the performance of the company, not least on the success of individual awards. And if the Government is unable to identify this or its supervisory councils, then it has used this measure to cut and administratively restrict it. The rhetorical question to me is what are the effects of this law. Are these companies, given that they have saved some 10,000 euros a year at the expense of the salaries of managers, doing better or doing worse? Does the impact of these salaries also have an impact on business, on the business results of this company and, as a result, on employees' salaries? Is any such analysis done? One more thing. All those predatory executives who are a few, the media, as well as time has flooded a lot, will know how to find circuits. We have had a fantastic director here, which is why we have even proposed amendments to the Company Act in terms of the abolition of silent companies, and we also have different directors who, through their subsidiaries and membership in the supervisory boards of these dependent companies and, as a result, through God, know some sort of circuitry, will fill their pockets and usually the country will be at a tax rate because it will find itself in some untransparent way in these pockets. The question is how many dependent companies and how many different satellites, these companies abroad, have operated and operated, for example, when we know that there are countless such and different satellites, these companies abroad, and that there is a very questionable control of cash flows everywhere. I myself believe that in certain cases such a law on the limitation of wages of managers is necessary and necessary. Even more urgent and necessary, I think that the Government with the many instruments it has at its disposal will have an impact on the better functioning of businesses, including those of the majority, and also those with the bulk of state ownership. And here, I think, I'm sorry, the government laid on the line. I know that the government likes to brag about itself, and I also know that the opposition rarely finds a nice word to do the government, but I also know the numbers they are, and these are sad. Finally, we also know the economic assessments of the government's action in the economic field and they are also sad. So if we sum it up in some way, we can see that there are few concrete, effective results of work here that would achieve this objective that we should achieve in the economic sphere during the crisis. So, the law is, in my opinion, or this authentic explanation is wrong because it goes beyond the instrument of authentic interpretation. In my opinion, however, the law itself is flawed, contradictory, and even harmful in a particular case. Once again: we would be happy to support such a proposal that would restrict the monopolies on the one hand and encourage those who are on the market; I would encourage them to better reward employees and better business results, and not least to strengthen their competitiveness. What is this law and this authentic explanation, not that it is a pale shadow, but no shadow of these efforts.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u196	Thank you very much. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a discussion on the proposal to adopt an authentic explanation and on the text of an authentic explanation. Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem was excused. Mr Silven Majhenič – he will not debate. Mr. Andrej Magajna, will you discuss it, Mr. Andrej Magajna? Then choose your word. No, no, no. Thank you. Mr. Franco Yuri. [[He won't discuss it.]] Mag. Borut Saiovic. [[It won't.]] Miran Györek. [[It won't.]] Franci Kek. [[It won't.]] The victory of the noble deer. [[It won't.]] Willie Rezman. [[It won't.]] Vito Rojej. [[It won't.]] Bogdan Barovich. [[It won't.]] Dr. Pavel Gantar. [[It won't.]] Aloysius Potočnik. [[It won't.]] Tadj Slapnik. [[It won't.]] Mag. Andrej Vizjak was just discussing. He wants to speak to the secretary? Here you go, Minister of Economy Mag. Darja Radic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u197	Thank you very much. Dear Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to end by giving some further explanations, which are intended primarily for Members who have stressed in their debate that they are not yet fully determined whether they will accept the proposal for an authentic explanation or not. In this place, I just want to explain once again why we decided to make an authentic explanation. As you know, since the summer and six months ago, we have been reviewing all contracts of all managers who work in companies in or mostly in majority or majority state ownership and in reviewing these contracts we have discovered something, I say, not unintentional but literally intentional abuses of this provision, which we are now trying to explain even more with an authentic explanation. Misuse in calculating the average wage in companies, especially where the group is concerned. We, too, when we began to see and see that this is actually an abuse, it is not a small one, as Mr Rezman said, and as the Law-Legal Service says. This is not a small variation in the use of different methods, this is a huge difference. Up to a thousand euros per salary. And because of this and because it was clear that from all the possible statistical formulas that exist in this world, such and other, our innovative managers have sought out the ones that are most useful for them, where the calculation was the most, we have decided to react urgently in this area and make the law clearer. We too have wondered whether to change the law or whether an authentic explanation is right. And then we decided, if we were to change the law, then we'd say we're changing the provision of this article. But the fact is, we don't want to change this article. The article, which sets out how the average gross salary is determined, is clear from the point of view of us, the preparers and the legislator; how to calculate the average wage on an employee in companies and in a group is clear to all economists; and here is the core of this problem. We wrote the law to economists. It is clear to all economists that this is the simplest formula each student of the 1st year of the Faculty of Economics has. And when we wrote this law, no one actually thought that formula was clear to anyone. With this I see this conflict, or now the opposition of the Government's Law Service, where lawyers look at these things differently. In fact, from this point of view, we also see that it is necessary to write the formula in the law, otherwise, unfortunately, it does not work. Otherwise, abuse will still take place. However, since this does not change the article, because it is really only an explanation for the users of this law, we have also assessed this on the basis of other legal opinions that it is more authentic and not a change of law. Accordingly, and the desire to continue as much as possible the abuse of this law as long as it is still in force while it is still to be implemented, we propose, of course, that this ambiguity be determined by the users or corrected by an authentic explanation. A little comment on Mr. Vissiak. This law is also intended for monopolistic companies owned by the majority of the state and the biggest abuses have taken place in monopolistic companies. That is why I think it is so important that in the future these provisions will be such that there will be no abuse. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u198	Thank you very much. All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss it under Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure. I can see that they've checked in more, so I'm giving you time to sign up. Here you go. Mr. Bogdan Barovich. Five minutes, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u199	Thank you very much. It's a good thing Mrs. Secretary picked up. We just heard some personification by a colleague that this authentic explanation was written for someone. Let's let it go. I'm just gonna add a few more. This authentic explanation can, and I believe, with a good purpose, be an authentic explanation of this government. But it can happen – I did not say it will, but it can happen that in a year there will be a new government, which this authentic explanation will not fit at all and we will come up with a new authentic explanation. So the authentic explanation is too little, and in this context it is not possible. The law, as far as the government is concerned, will make it a little harder to change and reverse quickly. I'm sure the intention of proposing an authentic explanation is excellent, good, well-intentioned. I'm absolutely sure. But you know, as you said, students of the 1st year can understand the record, which is in the third paragraph of Article 4, and so can all those who have formed themselves on the basis of this paragraph, this article pays. And this opportunity to read, how to read, very relative, is not absolute. And even for the authentic explanation that we can read, I don't want to read it, because from this one sentence, in the two lines of the line, there are no lines of interpretation, some will again be able to explain it one way or another. At least as far as the Slovenian national parties are concerned, we are basically convinced that it would be better and that it is right to amend the law if there are inconsistencies and uncertainties, or to supplement the law, and to supplement any other act under the law. However, we certainly cannot accept with all good intentions the authentic explanation, because, once again, this is the interpretation of this government, and that will then be the interpretation of some individuals, who will not change the actual state of affairs for which we have even dealt. Thus, I think it is right to think a little about the decision and to be in good faith against the proposal of an authentic interpretation and to propose amending the law by supplementing or supplementing any of the necessary sub-laws. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u200	Thank you. The word has magic. Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u201	Thank you very much. Well, if we did the right thing, then the minister could have convinced everyone that we didn't need this authentic explanation. The Minister herself has repeatedly said that this article is clear, clear and clear to all. And clear articles do not need authentic explanations, do not need; if the article is clear, it does not need an article of authentic interpretation. That's clear to everyone. However, if every article or marriage were to be interpreted differently, it is usually, if not, that lawyers in this country would not have anything to do, nor would the courts, since there would be no litigation. Why do legal disputes arise? Because the two sides explain each other differently and each one has its own right about one and the same thing. It is a common thing for people to explain one article differently. But if the article is clear, then it doesn't need an authentic explanation, and that's what we're always saying. And that the minister supported this, she also said by statistics that the vast majority of economic operators interpreted it as they wanted or wrote the article that only a minority, probably for some purely different reasons, interpreted it differently. But that's why we have institutions in this country that are going to sort these things out, and they're going to tell us who's right. Authenticity that interferes with matter itself, and then we bump into even the fact that it is in conflict with the article itself, but the problem is. And this has also happened in this case, as pointed out by the Legislative and Legal Service, underlining this issue of constitutionality. So, Minister, yes, we don't need this authentic explanation. And that's why I've looked a little bit favourably at it before, but now I'm going to vote against it, because if it's a clear article, it doesn't need an explanation. But I know that the one who didn't know it was Mr Rezman who went out, and it didn't convince him, and it didn't convince him, so he stayed probably at the same starting points as before. That's it.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u202	Thank you very much. I'm closing the debate. We will decide on the proposal for the adoption of an authentic explanation and on the text of an authentic interpretation in accordance with the time frame of the assembly today at 18.15. I hereby terminate this item of the agenda and also the meeting of the National Assembly. We continue the vote at 18.15.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u203	Dear colleagues and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! We are moving on to the vote of the National Assembly on proposals for decisions. Please take your seats so we can gather to conclude today. We continue with the work of the National Assembly. We are moving to a vote on the proposals for decisions. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We continue with the end of the 21st item of the agenda this is with the first reading of the draft law on amendments and additions to the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Financial Action Act, insolvency proceedings and forced termination is appropriate for further consideration. Let's vote. On behalf of the Group of Members, Mr. Gorenak? Don't mind me, I was watching, and you didn't have your hands up. Does anyone else want to do it on behalf of the Group of Members? No, no, no. Mr Gorenak, explanation of vote on behalf of the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u204	Thank you very much. I don't mind, but I don't mind. Look, we've tabled a bill, a bankruptcy law, we'll say, novels. This law proposes some things, such as that the creditor committee can look into so-called bankruptcy records. So far, it has been considered that this right is in accordance with Article 100, and the court has already decided that it does not have that right. And let's say, the board of creditors, even in the case of the bankruptcy of Elan, where the bankruptcy manager put EUR 180,000 in his pocket through his company, didn't have that opportunity and it's right to have that option. We further propose that they can also decide at written meetings and not only meet formally at meetings. We further propose that they be granted compensation for basic travel costs. We are also proposing such a very hygienic matter, which is called the incarceration of bankruptcy managers — it costs nothing. We also propose in Article 98 that we prevent bankruptcy managers from doing business with themselves or with businesses where they or their family members have more than 5%. In fact, it was in the bankruptcy of Elan that the bankruptcy manager did business with his company, whose owner or co-owner is and took away EUR 180,000. This would be impossible with our proposal. We further propose that the bankruptcy award be awarded in accordance with the efforts to pay the creditors and with the results achieved. We further propose this – because we have not yet seen that the bankruptcy managers within the Chamber and the disciplinary procedures within it are ever sanctioned, at least until now there are no data, we propose that this disciplinary responsibility be transferred to a special commission appointed by the Minister. In it, however, the majority of judges would have to decide on the disciplinary responsibility of bankruptcy managers. The costs of the procedure should also include the costs of so-called court fees. During the debate this morning it appeared that, at least it was said, there was a great deal of speech on this subject and no concrete action. That is why I have pointed out that, I cannot say that some of the Members whom I am looking at, but I cannot name them, in the case of bankruptcy managers, in the case of the bankruptcy of the new Steklarska, you have stood with the workers and explained to them how they will handle everything now, and then there was nothing arranged, even in front of the cameras, but, as I said this morning, I have contributed 200 euros to be able to file one case. It's right, gentlemen, to uphold this law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u205	While you did not say how you would vote or your parliamentary group, you called on others, which is not the content. I believe you will vote in favour. Does anyone want to explain their voice on their behalf? I can see if there's anyone else who wouldn't miss it. Dr. Gorenak, please, on your behalf.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u206	Thank you very much. Of course I'll support the marriage. I believe that there will also be an entire parliamentary group. Among other things, I teach in college, and I repeat some things, say, because I have one year ahead of me and another year of my third year and sometimes I feel like I'm a parrot. I will say that I am very grateful to all those parliamentary groups that have also announced support for this law. These were, I think, a national and a people's party; they were also very clearly announced by some Members, and I can see that they are here. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u207	Mr. Gorenak, don't ask me to remind you what the content of the explanation of vote is. They didn't commend others for that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u208	I think a compliment is welcome because we don't hear them very much. I also see all those Members who have announced this, and, of course, I will be very happy to look at that copy now and believe that we will publish it because it seems right for us to publish it, and the public document is – at least for the time being, there has not yet been a law prohibiting the publication of these matters. However, if it happens that this law will not receive support, but I will ask my fellow Members, there are enough of us who so think we can re- table the law immediately. In this case, I'm just gonna feel like I'm back in the classroom. But, because it will happen, I think it will happen sooner or later, because we are finally making a decision — about what? We decide on minimum funds for those who have one or the other or who have nothing. But these are the creditors, and I'm not really interested in the big creditors, and I'm more interested in the little creditors, the ones that, as we've already learned, have nothing. In short, I'd be happy to press F9 to see the decision. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u209	Thank you very much. Since no one wants to explain their vote again, I am voting — I read again — the following conclusion: The proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Financial Business Act, insolvency and forced termination procedures is appropriate for further consideration. We're voting. There are 69 Members and Members present, with 32 votes against 36. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 36.]] The proposal for a decision is not adopted. I note that the assembly has not adopted the proposed decision and that the proposal for a law will therefore be considered as not adopted and the procedure is suspended. Thank you very much, Mr. Gorenak. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We move on to the 22nd item of the agenda, this is the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Land Book Act. We are moving on to a decision on the following proposal for a decision: The proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Land Book Act is suitable for further consideration. On behalf of the delegation? Does anyone else want to do this on behalf of the parliamentary group except Dr. Gorenak? No, no, no. Mr. Gorenak, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u210	Thank you very much again before I go through the list. The Land Book Act was drafted by the Government last fall. It has put into the preparation of this law — not the law, the consequences that follow — I think millions of Euros of European funds in order for the land book to be electronic. In the previous adoption of this law, we have stressed that we support this law because, in fact, the vast majority of the members of the law are good, necessary, smart, if you want, or anything else. In short, we gave our compliments to the minister, and I repeat them for all the work that was done there. So it's electronics. However, because the Rules of Procedure do not allow us to say we agree with 95% of the articles, but we do not agree with a few articles, unfortunately we had to vote against that law or we were forced to vote against it. Because that law had a "fertilized bull" – this is now a modern Pirnato term, the term by Dr. Pirnata, Dean of the Faculty of Law, I believe that a respected man. In fact, why? Because he had the rules, which are in accordance with the principles of this government. This is because, according to the Economic Chamber, he intended to re-analyse EUR 30 million into private hands, which is for lawyers and notaries. In fact, he declared the citizens stupid, even though Maria Teresa had already declared them smart and said they could apply for land books themselves. This did not happen, and the law was passed after the law was rejected and the redecision showed that the majority of the House disagreed with that law. That's why we're here because we knew that the millions of euros were worth preparing, because we knew that there was also 64 thousand euros of money for the preparers of this matter, that's Mrs Plaževo's, and immediately said that we should put in that part of the law that's good. And we've passed the law that's before us. We have deleted several articles, four or five articles that still leave lawyers and notaries, but put man first so that he can apply for land. However, it is still permitted for lawyers or notaries to do so. In short, we will support the marriage, and more in the explanation in our own name, for which I am asking.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u211	Thank you very much. Does anyone want to explain their voice in their own name? I see more reports. Sign up who wants to explain his voice in his own name. Report. Mr. Joseph Jerovšek, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u212	Thank you very much. As has already been said, we have before us a law that the Government has basically prepared, and we have already praised it for the positive part. However, it is a mistake that the Government, as a coward's egg in this law, has instilled a markedly negative solution that, from now on, from the validity of that law, Slovenian citizens would no longer have the opportunity and the right to invest independently in land registers. The government then made two of these: it humiliated the Slovenians and their dignity, which had previously been able to invest land book deposits independently from Mary Teresa, and the technical and business culture of the Slovenians is large today, within Europe and the world. Thus neglecting the Slovenians is not allowed, as this would also reduce the innovative ability of the Slovenians, who come to the economy, in services and everywhere in the state administration. This was done because of the fact that this business, at EUR 30 million, was then assessed by the Chamber of Commerce, which awarded the title of notaries and lawyers. With this you wanted to do what you are doing, two legal states: one for the rich who can afford it, and the other for as few legal states as possible and legal rights, and all of which we have corrected in the law we have enacted. Whoever votes against will vote in favour of two legal states and will vote in favour of the rich.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u213	You, Mr. Jerovšek, will you support? Thank you very much. Dr. Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u214	Not to forget, Mr. Vice President. I'll back you up, too, of course. In fact, I support, like my colleagues, everything I think is fine. And I also support all government laws that are good, but I have little chance of doing so. This law is true — among other things, that I do not repeat myself. Look, that mayor you have the most respect for, that mayor that some want as a successor to the Prime Minister of the Government, has also responded by letter and has made it very clear, like many other mayors, that he has adequate legal services, that he has a lot of lawyers working and that he doesn't need services from lawyers or notaries. He doesn't need them because his people, who are already employees, who already have a salary, are capable of making such a land book deposit. But look, your marriage, which you've rejected, has prevented it, it's not allowed. This law will also reduce costs for all Slovenian mayors. Indeed, all their land-book applications, which are few, I believe that Mr Jankovic does not have a few, will be able to do their own work, as they are so far and will file matters. The law, which was previously on the wallpaper that you also rejected, made it impossible. So let the mayor's voice convince you if you're not convinced by my voice. I'm gonna go for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u215	Here you go, Mr. Keck, procedurally.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u216	Thank you for your word. Mr President, I do not know if this is possible, but colleague Vinko Gorenak explained the position on this, on his behalf and on behalf of the Group of Members, and somehow I did not see the difference. If possible, if you give him the opportunity to tell him what he disagrees with his parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u217	Thank you. Your conclusion may be correct, but there is no procedural proposal. If Gorenak comes forward again on behalf of the Group of Members and on behalf of myself, I must give him my word because we have always done so. But anyone can think what he wants about explaining his voice. We are therefore going to the vote, and I will read once again the proposal for a decision: the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Land Book Act is suitable for further consideration. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. The vote was 32. Against 36. [[The vote was 32.]] [[Against 36.]] I note that the assembly did not adopt the proposed decision and that the legislative procedure for the proposal is therefore closed. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue the 12th item of the agenda – consideration of the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Travel Documents Act, the reduced procedure. We continue with the second reading, this is by deciding on the amendments tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of the review of the amendments tabled on 2 February 2011. We turn first to the decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 8. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 29 votes against 41. [[The vote was 29.]] [[Against 41.]] The amendment to Article 8 has not been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group to Article 10. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 28 votes against 42. [[The vote was 28.]] [[Against 42.]] The proposed amendment to Article 10 is not accepted. We have completed the vote on the amendments and the second reading of the bill in the context of the reduced procedure. The amendments in the second reading were not adopted and we are moving on to the third reading of the bill. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government has not warned me that the proposal for a law on the grounds of amendments adopted in the framework of the home labour body would not be harmonised, so we are going to vote on the bill. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against 1. [[The vote was 70.]] [[Against one.]] I take it the law has been passed. With regard to this item of the agenda, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly that, pursuant to Rule 153 of the Rules of Procedure, the Assembly adopt the following decision: The Legislative and Legal Service shall draw up a consolidated official text of the Travel Documents Act. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 69 votes against 1. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[Against one.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the 27th item on the agenda – the proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 39(1) of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage. We are moving on to a decision on the proposal for a decision of the parent working body: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of Article 39(1) and (2) of the Law on the Protection of Cultural Heritage shall be adopted. We're voting. There are 72 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the decision has been taken. Since the proposed decision has been adopted by the assembly, we will proceed to the text of the authentic interpretation, first of all to decide on the amendment of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth to the proposal for an authentic interpretation text, which fully replaces the proposed text of the interpretation. If the amendment is not adopted, the amendment to the title of the authentic interpretation becomes irrelevant. We vote first on the amendment of the committee. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 70 Members and Members present, 67 votes against none. [[The vote was 67.]] [[No one.]] I note that the text of the authentic interpretation has been adopted. We are moving on to a decision on the amendment of the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth to the title of an authentic explanation. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, with 70 votes against none. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] We must now vote on the entire title of the authentic explanation. We're voting. The vote is under way. There are 72 Members and Members present, 68 votes against none. [[The vote was 68.]] [[No one.]] I note that the title of the authentic interpretation is also fully accepted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We are moving on to the end of the 28th item of the agenda, which is the continuation of the adjourned debate on the Proposal for the adoption of the authentic interpretation of the second indent of the third paragraph of Article 4 of the Law on the remuneration of managers in companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Slovenia and by self-government local communities. We are moving on to the decision of the parent working body: The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the second indent of the third indent of Article 4 of the Law on the remuneration of managers in companies owned by the majority of the Republic of Slovenia and by the local self-government communities is adopted. Explanation of the vote on behalf of the Mag Group of Members Andrej Vizjak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u218	Therefore, we will not support the proposal of an authentic interpretation in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. We have a number of reasons for that. The underlying reason is that the law itself, according to our assessment, has done more harm than good, but let's leave it. It's an authentic explanation. Authenticity, according to the Minister, who proposed an authentic explanation, is not necessary, as she has made it very clear today that the article and the law are clear that the vast majority of managers have respected it, but something is not. 10 or how many executives don't, that's 300. So if each minority different interpretation of a particular legislation requires authentic interpretations, then every word, every article, every paragraph of authentic interpretation. It is normal for people to interpret legislation differently, such as lawyers, courts, and ultimately the epilogue. However, it is not normal for a clear law and a clear article, which the Minister has very clearly underlined, to be seen from the magnetogram, even though it is moving with its head now. So, it is very clear that both the article and the law are clear. And why does a clear law and a clear article need an authentic explanation?Oh, my God! He doesn't need it! That's one reason. Make it even clearer. I don't know why he'd be more clear if he was clear. It's clear, it can't be any clearer. Will he be more clear then or how? Well, that's one reason. The second reason is in the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service. Many times, when it is appropriate and convenient, the coalition points out the opinion of the Legal and Legal Service as an axiom, something that is in fact irrefutable. It is also interesting that the opinion of the Legislative and Legal Service is still important in authentic interpretation, as it is a matter of more or less legal dilemmas, whether an article needs an authentic explanation or not. This goes beyond the content or the content is of secondary importance here. It is important whether the matter is formally meaningful and possible. And the Legal and Legal Service objected to this authentic explanation. Therefore, at least these two interpretations lead the parliamentary group not to support this authentic explanation and not to see the need for an authentic explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u219	Thank you very much. Anybody want to explain their voice in their own name? No, no, no. We are moving to a vote on the proposal for a decision. The proposal for the adoption of an authentic interpretation of the second indent of the third paragraph of Article 4 of the Law on the remuneration of managers in companies owned by a majority of the Republic of Slovenia and by self-government local communities shall be adopted. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour and 39 votes in favour, 24 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 24.]] I understand that the decision has been taken. Since the proposed decision is adopted, we are moving on to a decision on the proposal for an authentic interpretation text. We're voting. There were 70 votes in favour and 39 against. [[The vote was 39.]] [[Against 21.]] I note that the text of the authentic interpretation has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. We continue with the adjourned 19th item of the agenda – third reading of the Proposal for a Law on Volunteering under the regular procedure. On Tuesday, 1 February this year, the National Assembly held a second reading of the proposal. Since amendments to less than a tenth of the articles of the amended draft law were adopted in the second reading, the National Assembly, on a proposal from the Government as a bill-maker, decided that, pursuant to the first paragraph of Article 138 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, it would hold a third consideration of the draft law at that meeting. Two amendments were tabled in the third reading, namely Articles 7 and 18. I turn first to the debate and decision on the amendment to Article 7 tabled by the Coalition's parliamentary groups. Here you are, Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u220	Thank you very much. Dear Members and Members! I believe that you have read the explanation for the amendment tabled by the coalition parties, however, since you will proceed to the vote, I would like to point out that the adoption of this amendment is necessary, because otherwise the law, which you have assessed as necessary, necessary and late, would cause the text of the law to be inconsistent as adopted in the second reading — both with the ninth and fifth paragraphs of Article 23, the fourth paragraph of Article 41 — all because of the reasons given by the extensive reasoning that I do not repeat it, tells the amendment table that it is necessary to accept this amendment. However, for the amendment to Article 18, I propose that it should not be accepted, as it is contrary to the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service and in a significant part would constitute the non-consistency of the provisions of the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-02-03-SDZ5-Redna-24.ana.u221	Thank you very much. I propose that we first vote on the amendment to Article 7. I'm putting this amendment to the vote. We're voting. 69 Members and Members are present. 43 votes in favour. Against 22. [[43 votes in favour.]] [[Against 22.]] The amendment was accepted. We are now moving on to a debate and a later vote on the amendment to Article 18 of the law tabled by the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group of Members. Anybody want a word? [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. We are moving to a vote on the amendment to Article 18. We're voting. There are 68 Members and Members present. The vote was 23. Against 39. [[The vote was 23.]] [[Against 39.]] I take it the amendment has not been accepted. We have thus concluded the debate on the amendments tabled in the third reading. I am informing you that the Legislative and Legal Service or the Government did not warn me that the amendments adopted would make the law inconsistent. We are therefore moving on to a decision on the bill. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present. 70 votes in favour. No one's against it. [[The vote was 70.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the bill has been adopted. I hereby conclude this agenda item. I'm adjourning the 24th meeting of the assembly, which we'll resume tomorrow at 10 a.m. The Committee on Culture, Education and Sport announces that the meeting of the Committee will be held at 7.05 p.m.
