ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members, fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin the 46th extraordinary meeting of the National Assembly, convened pursuant to Article 58, paragraph 1, and Article 60, paragraph 2, of the Rules of Procedure. Allow me to inform you that the following Members cannot attend today's meeting: Dr Pavel Gantar after 2 p.m., Mr Alexander Zorn, Mr Andrej Magajna, Mr Franz Jurša and Mr Matjaž Zanoškar. Mr Borut Pahor and the Minister of Finance, Dr France Križanič, are invited to the meeting on the 1st item of the agenda and representatives of the Government are invited to all points. I say hello to everyone who's here! We are moving on to the establishment of the agenda of the 46th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly. You received the draft agenda on Friday 9 September 2011, with a reference to the meeting. We will decide on the draft agenda in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 64 of the Rules of Procedure. I have not received any proposals for extending the agenda. I propose to the Assembly that today's meeting be held on the agenda as requested. We're moving on to decision-making. Members and Members, please check the functioning of the voting apparatus. We're voting. There are 70 Members and Members present, 69 votes against none. [[69 votes in favour.]] [[No one.]] I take it that the agenda for the 46th Extraordinary Meeting of the National Assembly is set. We're moving on to one. On the eve of the day, this is on the eve of the 2011 budget proposal for the Republic of Slovenia's budget. The proposal for a budget rebalancing was tabled by the Government. I give the floor to the President of the Government, Mr Borut Pahor, to present the proposal for the 2011 budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Today it's been three years since Lehman Brothers collapsed on Wall Street. Its decline was symbolically and truly announcing the moment when, in global finances and in the economy after that, it was never the same as it was before. The global economy has been hit by a severe recession, and although we have withdrawn from the worst in 2009 and 2010, trends in 2011 also show that the recovery of the global economy will continue significantly slower than we wanted. Certainly remains one of the central issues of all modern economies – I also include Slovenian – management of the debt crisis. With the debt crisis created for a number of reasons, the underlying crisis that led to the Wall Street collapse is the deregulation of the financial industry, and secondly, it is an extremely courageous fiscal stimulus for national economies at the start of the recession at the end of 2008 and 2009. With a lot of money going into the bottomless bags, it finally happened that the vast majority of the countries of the entire currency group were in the debt crisis that we are witnessing today. It will depend not only on the management of the budget deficit, but on the management of public debt in general, on how countries will be treated in the time of resolution of this crisis. After dramatic events in 2009, Slovenia, when we recorded a truly stunning fall in gross domestic product, rising unemployment rates, fluctuation in the risks of transition to poverty and all other social and economic indicators that pointed to the real dramatic crisis of the Slovenian economy, came out slowly in 2010, but reliably from the recession. What especially marks Slovenian nature, our public financial images, is the fact that in 2009 and the first half of 2010, Slovenian politics consciously decided to maintain social cohesion. That is why we have invested an important part of the funds – in addition to investments such as in all other countries, in the economy, in science, in technology – also in social cohesion. I wouldn't have decided otherwise today. What I would do today is to commit the social partners with whom we discussed at the time the need for this measure to keep Slovenia, as a small and open economy, socially connected, to take measures that are important for social cohesion, namely social solidarity, in order to maintain social justice in society, small incomes and other differences between peoples, so as not to increase the spread. On the other hand, the social partners need to take almost unconditional measures which are important for the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. The first part for most social partners, except for employers, was not particularly problematic, but in the second half of 2010, when the Slovenian government decided on structural measures and also on major reform changes, due to the interference with rights, due to the change in some important performances that would allow for greater competitiveness, there was a resistance. This usually ended at the referendum by voting against change, whether the changes were to change the labour market for young people, which was very scrupulous and for Slovenian young people, or if it was to prevent a grey economy where we even agreed with all the social partners, where they would not play by double rules, and would allow order and respect for the rules on the market. People voted against it, perhaps because they did not trust that other instruments would allow themselves to be earned with work and that there was a need to continue to embrace the rescue plant of the grey economy, it was meant to work in black and offer work in black. Pension reform has also fallen. I would also like to thank the High Council for its support in all this time of extremely difficult, as well as for the dramatic decisions taken by cities to adopt pension legislation. The adoption of pension legislation and then the fall in the referendum actually affected our position in the financial markets for the first time and more importantly. Finance Minister Križanič will explain later how nominally fast can also be calculated the greater attention and reservation of financial markets to the situation of Slovenia after the fall of pension reform. At least so far, the short-term financial markets still have a favourable view of Slovenia's situation. We have a manageable financial deficit, both budgetary and general government debt, but we are both moving at the upper limit. We cannot afford a 5% budget deficit, and we want to achieve exactly this with this balance. Nor can we go beyond 45% of the debt in gross domestic product. With this instrument, we want to contribute so that this does not happen to us. According to recent forecasts, the Slovenian economy will grow slightly slower than forecast, joining Slovenia to countries with similar problems or trends in particular in the euro area and in the European Union. Germany's economic growth is slowing down. After a remarkable start in the first quarter, there was a bad second quarter, the same in France, that is, in countries that are important trading partners for us. With the delay this is always known in Slovenia. This is why the Slovenian government had to respond and prepared a budget rebalancing, which reduces spending by around 350 million on the expenditure side in order to balance the budget with the budget deficit by around 4.7%. This will also contribute to lower public debt pressures, and money will remain relatively accessible in international markets for Slovenia, especially in February and the first half of next year, when we reach out to financial resources available abroad. Economic forecasts are less optimistic than they were, but Slovenia will still have positive economic growth. We are striving to see inflation below the level of the European Union, because, last but not least, economic growth is below it. That is why we must be very disciplined in the face of these ambitions that we have. I like to say that we are among those countries that still have the most control over one of the fucking problems facing all global economies, that is unemployment. Slovenia is now dying about 105 to 107 thousand. Every unemployed person means a problem for him and his family, and I don't want to underestimate it. However, I believe that with the successful resolution of the crisis, which is ahead of us and which we may say a few words below, which is, in addition to the fact that the financial, economic, social, even in the European Union and the Eurogroup, is institutional, Slovenia is still in the last quarter of this historic arch from the fall of Lehman Brothers to the end of the worst period in the recession, with a slightly slower economic recovery, however, the result is that, for the first time, it has remained socially connected. So we didn't sacrifice one layer of people, not the social, not the generational, to get through this crisis. Secondly, at the time of this crisis, we had to address the institutional problems that have arisen during the transition. Here I am thinking mainly of the justified anger and powerlessness of the public, as well as of the unwillingness of the rule of law instruments, as we have inherited at the beginning of the crisis, not only in us, including in other countries, in the face of the initial capital accumulation. This was significantly less controlled in 20 years before that than we wanted. Of course, many tycoon and other stories that have undermined confidence in being able to make a decent and diligent living with knowledge. There was a feeling in the public that some groups were privileged and others were deprived. All of this had to be sanctioned at the same time as we regulated the economic and financial crisis. I conclude with this and ask the Minister to introduce you in more detail into the budget numbers. Since the end of 2008, when we have been given responsibility for managing the government, to this day we have tried to regulate public finances by not falling into the debt crisis with a whole range of budgets and rebalancing of these budgets, like most other countries – Slovenia in this respect. Finally, another important warning to all who will think about the way ahead. However and whoever will already have an important word in decision-making on the conduct of Slovenian policy, I would like to express my strong personal feeling to him. We are Slovenians – and we were not the only ones, but it seems to me that this may have felt very special for a number of reasons – we missed the events in autumn 2008. Partly because we were immersed in an election campaign, partly for other reasons. In fact, we grew up in a country that has always had political and other disturbances on the inside, but outside the environment has always been stable. Today, ladies and gentlemen, we are in a very different situation. Apart from the restless domestic political, economic and social environment, which is perfectly normal for a democratic society, we also have an extremely restless environment in international finances, in the international economy, in politics, and in cities we also have worrying security situations. This should be in front of your eyes. We are also not a sovereign state that alone is without alliances, which mean rights, but also duties in solving this crisis. We are in the Eurogroup with the other 16 countries and we are in the European Union together with the other 26 countries. The European Union has its own problems, but it has a particularly large euro area within it as a financial pillar of the European Union as a whole. And here I want to draw the attention of everyone who reflects the situation we're in. It is of paramount importance for Slovenia to maintain the common European currency. I think that for Slovenia, in addition to other historic breakthroughs, such as the process of democracy, independence, entry into the European Union and NATO, entry into the euro area has also been a historic moment that is important for the well-being of our people. None of our actions, however legitimately motivated in any way, should jeopardize our position in the euro area. Neither I nor the advisers, who I trust with their knowledge and experience, nor the foreign observers can imagine how a small and open economy such as Slovenia could be in the face of any major institutional crisis in the euro area, if there were any change, would have landed outside this area. I'm not saying that's gonna happen. I'm not saying when changes can happen. However, something is happening today, after the performances of all the leading people in the European Union, in particular in the euro area, it is clear. Let us be especially prepared for this. Finally, let me say that it is the job of the Slovenian government to monitor very closely what is happening at home and in the international environment. Like the international environment, in particular the Euro Zone and the European Union, we have begun to recover slowly. From the most important point of view, we depend on export demand. As economic activity in Germany and France is being reduced, including because of the psychology of mistrust in the future of the European currency and the possible bankruptcy of some Member States and institutional changes, trade in goods and services with the countries most important to us is being curtailed. This led to a situation where we had to change our financial plans, and the National Assembly kindly requests that this important situation be taken into account. If the Slovenian Government has this mandate, it will endeavour to draw up a final budget for the period 2012-2013. It will further strengthen those parameters that are important for the long-term sustainability of public finances and, as a country, fall below the limits so that we can participate in, I believe, the major changes we will witness in the euro area and in the euro area without any day-to-day fear. Finally, we must remain within the single European currency. In that sense, there seems to be nothing essential to me. Certainly we will hear criticism here, and many of these criticisms are justified. Many things could be done in the light of competitiveness and the need for it under certain conditions to be done better and faster than has been done. But we'll talk about it next week. If the Government is given a mandate, it also has a very clear plan of action for increasing competitiveness, which is the only condition for sustainability of social cohesion in the long term. Thus, ladies and gentlemen, the Slovenian government comes before this high assembly as a minority government, knowing that we do not have enough votes in advance to support the budget's balance, asking you to understand the domestic and international conditions, to take them into account in your assessment and to support the adoption of the budget's balance without wanting to give any message to support a government that you may not trust. This would be important for Slovenia because we would be holding both the budget deficit and the public debt on the deficits. Secondly, it would be important to tell the financial markets that they are irritated not to trust anyone, that any small change is causing major changes. Today we can already see that Slovenia is managing its costs. These two messages would be useful. As the president of the minority government, aware that I do not have here, together with my colleagues and colleagues, advance support, I ask you to accept this balance after a long and perhaps critical debate on the budget, allow the country to continue actively leading its fiscal policy, so that we do not make a political problem out of debt, because this would burden not only this but also the next generation. The Minister of Finance will now introduce the National Assembly in the details of this rebalancing, and a broad discussion is likely to follow. The budget theme is always a debate on everything in politics and so is the case. But the government will try to explain something if it helps to conclude. Please, Minister.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u3	Thank you very much, Mr. President of the Government. In order to present the proposal for the 2011 budget rebalancing, I give the floor to Dr. Franc Križanič, Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u4	Presidents, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! Allow me to briefly present the 2011 budget rebalancing. This is already a second rebalancing, as we also adopted last autumn a budget rebalancing that we adopted in the autumn months. In what context do we accept the budget or the current balance? We accept it in the context of the acute crisis in the sovereign bond market, which has become particularly hot in the euro area, where we have not established the lender quickly enough and efficiently at the last level. I hope that in the coming months this will be done, that this crisis will be managed and that it will not lead to further complications or economic downturns, because in these circumstances most euro area countries are speeding up their savings, as we are, and this will lead to a decline in aggregate demand and consequently to calming down, for now, and later will undoubtedly lead to a decline in economic activity and employment. This refers to the very high value of the euro exchange rate in the global foreign exchange markets. This is now slightly reduced and allows, in particular, for standardised technologies with higher price elasticity, competition not only in global markets, but also in the euro area market to countries which seem to have an extremely high competitiveness price, but actually have a standard of living at a relatively high level. In this context, until the fall of the pension reform in the referendum, Slovenia acted as a stable Central European country, including others to assist the countries of Europe's economic periphery. However, since the fall of pension reform, we have been under the care of global market financiers, whether we are able to manage costs. This retailer is shown in the range of the value of the bonds which started to increase in Slovenia according to the value of the German bond. And it is interesting that, in the short term, it remains about the same as it was and increases especially in 10- and 15-year-olds. It is said that markets somehow perceive that in the long term we will not be able to manage costs if we thus set the framework for our operations, as we have done with the pension reform. Fortunately, the exam is possible. It will take a year to wait and then implement an appropriate reform. In this context, the Slovenian economy is located in the autumn months at the time of exports, which are growing calmly. In the spring months, it grew rapidly, the end of spring, the beginning of summer has already reached its pre-crisis level, and now it has begun to calm down and thus is no longer growing so solidly in the public finances. At the same time, we have a specific crisis in construction activities that is even more acute than expected due to a brutal competition in public procurement and extremely low prices, with which individual companies have taken over these contracts, which are later unable to carry out and fall into different forms of liquidity and debt crisis. At the same time, since July last year, we are recording the decline in credit activity in the economy, which is linked to the strict regulatory requirements of our market, which further weakens the potential for growth and public financial inflows. It all shows that the tides will be smaller this year than planned, and at the same time it shows that we need to give markets a clear signal that we are able to manage costs. By the end of June, we had already proposed a rebalancing measure in line with our competences – as was the case when the pension reform had fallen – and at the same time adopted a measure to halt the taking of new commitments, in effect introducing a new form of savings, which will yield additional results this year in addition to the current balance. The latest macroeconomic forecasts of Umar show that the recovery of our economy in this context, which I have mentioned, will be slightly slower than we anticipated in the spring months. New forecasts show that this year's economic growth will be 1.5%. Slovenia is a small, open economy, which is highly dependent on the economic situation in some of the European Union's Member States, and also a small change in their economic activities can have a major impact on changes in us. The balance ahead of you is keeping the budget deficit and the level of indebtedness at the level of the 2011 budget adopted, which is an important fact. The budget deficit will thus amount to €1.7 billion or 4.6% of gross domestic product in 2011, with a net budget debt of €2.2 billion in 2011. The tightening of the Stability and Growth Pact, which is becoming the main instrument for the coordination and control of fiscal policy in the European Union, also commits Slovenia to reducing future deficits. The measures envisaged would, in 2011 and 2012, have a direct impact on economic growth by reducing the country's investment and consumption expenditure and by lowering household consumption, but it is then expected that the additional fiscal efforts to achieve the target deficit and the accelerated growth of private sector exports and investments would have relatively improved funding conditions already in 2013. Taking into account the above, the Government proposes a budget rebalancing mainly with the aim of continuing the policy of ensuring public financial stability. This scenario or this model is possible in the event that other countries do not save similarly. In particular, Europe's largest and most successful countries should lead a significantly more expansive policy than they now have. In reverse, additional, amended measures will be required. It's about income. The revenue of the State budget for 2011 is falling by € 365 million according to expectations. A little more than €200 million here falls back on the funds received from the European Union. Here I would like to point out that we are not giving up European money, but we wanted to be realistic in planning to draw on these funds. In all the years since we have the opportunity to draw on European funds, you have been and we have been overly optimistic about planning. Implementation at the end of the year never exceeded 70% of the planned funds, and this was the main reason we wanted to do something different this year. The reality of the implementation of projects was the only criterion that we respected, and once again, this reduction does not mean that we are giving up anything, but we are implementing projects in the way they are. We also do not limit the rebalancing of new commitments and the placement of integral resources where a project is prepared far enough and has sufficient European resources, that is, the majority. I want to mention another fact. In the first eight months of this year, we have drawn almost 500 million Euros of European money, money from the European budget. We are slightly over €200 million net recipients, which means that we have earned 200 million more from the European budget than we have paid for it. When we look at tax revenues, they are reduced by about €165 million, mostly at the expense of excise duties, namely excise duties on energy products. Due to the high price of oil on the world market, we have been forced to reduce excise duties several times to remain competitive compared to neighbouring countries, and this is the main reason for reducing our inflow from this tax by almost 100 million euros. In addition, the assessment for inflows from value added tax and income is slightly reduced. In particular, I would like to point out the corporate income tax, where we were positively surprised or confirmed by predictions that we were very conservative in the preparation of the initial assessments. The corporate income tax is increasing by 130 million euros this year. About the expenses. In view of the state of play and taking into account legal rights, the budget rebalance in the reduction of expenditure has mainly affected the budgetary programmes which represent a flexible part of the expenditure. The expenditure of the state budget also decreases by € 365 million compared to the budget adopted. The maximum change or maximum additional funding should be provided for unemployment benefits of around EUR 100 million. This is due to a much higher number of beneficiaries than planned and also to a higher average amount of this compensation. Also, due to the increased number of new pensioners, some EUR 50 million additional liabilities had to be met to the Pension and Disability Insurance Office, about 1% more than originally planned. Even in 2011, this budget rebalancing makes the most of the social security policy, which is about €2.5 billion, which is 22.4% more than in 2008. Education and sport policy will receive €1.4 billion or 8% more in 2011 than in 2008. The policy of higher education, science and technology is increasing by €183 million or 38% compared to 2008, thus holding back this priority in order to promote the soft factors of economic development and the transition to a knowledge society. The far largest increase compared to 2008 is in labour market policy, with expenditure increasing by 178% or 334 million euros for this purpose. They're also increasing to the unemployed, and it's tough, so it's probably going to have to create a bigger savings here next year, because it's not sustainable for a longer period. The 2011 proposal for the 2011 budget rebalancing is indeed reducing investment expenditure according to the 2011 revised budget, the current budget is now in force. Compared to the 2010 reality – and I ask you to listen – investment funds increase by just over €100 million or 11.6%. Despite strong cuts here, the investment is 12% higher than it was in 2010, but it is largely tied, clearly, to European funds. We would like these funds to increase even more and not to reduce investment in transport, but, as we say, in these times of crisis, our first concern is humane and social cohesion. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! The balance in front of you is a very important document, so I ask you to support it, even though you are not most pleased with everything in it, because it is a savings issue and it is politically not such a pleasant thing to do. It is important that, despite reduced revenues, we maintain the budget deficit at the planned level of 4.6% of gross domestic product, that we do not increase debt and that we follow the commitments made in the stability programme, proving that we know how to manage public finances and that we will fully consolidate them in the medium term. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u5	Thank you very much, Mr. Secretary. The draft budget balance was considered by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as the parent working body. For the presentation of the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Čepić, President of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u6	Greetings to the Prime Minister, ministers and ministers! Colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy considered the proposal for a rebalancing at its 74th emergency meeting. 9. 2011. The opinion was forwarded to the Commission on the supervision of public finances, the Environment and Space Committee, the Commission on Relations of Slovenians in Replacement and Worldwide, the Committee on Agriculture, Forestry and Food, the Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth, the Committee on Defence, the Committee on Health, the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development, the Commission on National Communities, the Committee on Higher Education, Science and Technology Development and the Committee on Transport, which took note of the proposal for a rebalancing and which did not formulate and adopt their amendments. During the course of business, qualified applicants did not table amendments to the proposed balance. However, written proposals for the amendment of the Committee were sent to the Committee, namely a proposal from the MEP. Radovan Žerja to increase the sub-programme Sustainable management of natural resources and to build environmental infrastructure within the framework of user 2511, the Ministry of Environment and Space, by EUR 275 thousand 153, and a proposal by Member of Mr Alojzi Potočnik to increase the sub-programme Special budget reserve and disaster assistance programmes in the context of user 2511, the Ministry of Environment and Space, by a million EUR 500 000. In the debate on the tabled rebalancing, members of the opposition's type made critical assessments on the proposed rebalancing and, inter alia, stressed: that there was insufficient determination on some segments to reduce public spending; that a radical cut would be needed in all budget lines in the future; could be linear, and in the number of employees in the public sector; that an unacceptable reduction in the budget of the Ministry of Economy in the social, education and external affairs account; that the austerity of the rebalancing was questionable because there were significant budgetary users who were not involved in the economic and financial crisis, allocated more resources than in 2008 when the period was the economy; that, in order to resolve problems related to excessive red tape, the rebalancing of the rebalancing process would not be sufficient; that the rebalancing of the internal political situation was irrelevant and that nothing was intended to the public. In the discussion of the members of the coalition groups, it was stressed, inter alia, that the rebalancing is needed, in particular because of radically modified forecasts on the movement of macroeconomic indicators, and is a result of a European coordinated policy in the field of financial restraint and budgetary balance; that the rebalancing is an important and genuine signal to the foreign about awareness of the seriousness of the situation and willingness to take unwelcome action; that the proposal to increase public investment on the other hand also calls for an answer to the question where in the budget to provide the necessary resources for this purpose; that for some bureaucratic obstacles in certain areas, such as the drawing of European funds or in the field of public procurement, we need to release legislation in the field of employment, to change the way workers in the public sector, and to change the way in which they have adopted such legislation, for example in the field of public procurement. However, this issue cannot be resolved by the balance, which requires a broader political consensus in the country. The Committee discussed the proposal for an amendment to the Committee, which was forwarded by the MEPs. Radovan Žerjav and Mr Aloysius Potočnik. Mag. In a written explanation of his proposal, Radovan Žerjav stressed that the development programme plan shows that the proposed rebalancing no longer provides for a water supply measure for Pomurje, system A. The implementation of flood safety measures is essential for Pomurje, and therefore resources should be allocated for this measure as provided for in the current budget. With regard to this proposal, the Minister of Finance drew attention to the complications related to that project, which were not of a budgetary nature. Therefore, if the complications are resolved, the project will be able to be financed in this year. Mr Potočnik stated in a written explanation of his proposal that the funds for the 2004 earthquake project were earmarked for an earthquake recovery. During the consequences of the temporary interruption of the work on the earthquake recovery, it recalls that the beneficiaries would be placed in an unequal position before the law in relation to beneficiaries who have received the means of recovery. With regard to this proposal, the representative of the rebalance proposer stressed that the funds foreseen for the 2004 earthquake were sufficient to cover expenditure on the basis of the contracts already signed and that special attention would have to be paid to this issue in 2012 and 2013. The Committee voted on both proposals for amendments to the Committee and did not adopt them.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u7	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Dr László Göncz will present the position on behalf of the parliamentary group of national communities.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u8	Thank you very much for your words, Mr President of the National Assembly. Dear Mr President of the Government, members of the Government, colleagues and colleagues! It is clear that the balance of the budget is needed due to negative trends and substantially changed circumstances in the field of economy and public finances. This raises the question of the extent to which we are to blame for the situation ourselves or who else is to blame, and how much the current situation is conditioned by the general financial and economic crisis or by other objective factors. A single answer to this question would probably be very difficult to find in this high assembly. Although the 2011 budget rebalancing condition of public finances is much worse than we originally planned when we adopt the budget, in order to partially stabilise the situation or adjust the actual situation to our balance sheet assessment, it is only necessary to adopt it. According to the latest information, including from the highest government circles, the question is to what extent the proposed rebalancing balances the state budget for the current year and what interventions will be needed by the end of the year in this area, or what will be the possible consequences if the proposed version is found to be very weak by the end of the year. In comparison with the revenue and expenditure side in the proposed balance, we also question certain solutions in our parliamentary group. Undoubtedly, one of the most controversial issues is whether additional items can be raised on certain expenditure accounts by simultaneously reducing amounts on the income side on so-called investment items. It is also clear to the simplest calculator that if we do not allow development-oriented investment programmes, opening jobs as a very pressing problem is objectively impossible. Of course, we are also aware that solutions are extremely complex and difficult, because, among other things, the financial and economic crisis is still strongly showing its teeth today and unfortunately even the biggest experts on a variety of issues have no solution. I will not talk about the problems and problems of a general character now, because I am sure that you will do this on a multi-layered basis by other Members and Members in the next debate. However, I will touch on the items or content relating to the indigenous Hungarian and Italian national communities. In this regard, it should be pointed out that the Government has largely kept the promise made by the President of the Government several times publicly, and in this area it has not significantly reduced those funds earmarked for those communities. For such an unquestionably correct approach on this occasion, I commend the Government. In doing so, it should be pointed out that in the case of the said national communities, it is an extremely vulnerable minority community, where possible contractions and thereby the reduced functioning of their institutions and organisations would pose major problems which could hardly be remedied by subsequent measures. While a reduction is to be seen in the amount of money allocated to the Nationality Office, this does not have a direct impact on the performance of the activities, although it does not concern the targeted volumes or accounts of the Italian and Hungarian communities. There have also been some problems in Hungarian school investments, which will need to be clarified and resolved in the coming weeks. It should also be noted that the more worrying now are the incomplete information that has been leaking to the public regarding the planned amounts for the 2012 budget changes, which will also require an in-depth analysis of the situation and the search for optimal solutions from the point of view of nationalities. It also seems important to me to highlight some of the problems which are directly or indirectly related to the budget and its implementation, including for the current year. Unfortunately, as regards the search for operational systemic solutions in the area of the creation of the economic basis of the national community, for which a modest amount is foreseen in the state budget, despite repeated discussions, we have not been able to significantly improve the situation. Since we are talking about the potential development potential of national communities and the national mixed area as a whole, we are all missing opportunities together that could create additional values in the area of cross-border economic contacts and qualitative solutions to that area. Even with regard to the direct financing of national community organisations, activities have not yet come to actual realization, which would also make a significant contribution to the more efficient use and transparency of money intended for the functioning of self-government national communities. I mention, by the way, that in connection with the financing of national communities or specific organisations of Hungarian nationality in recent times, there has been a rather intense appearance of unreliable information, sometimes accompanied by offensive words, in certain contexts, also in the form of an enemy speech. In this regard, I must categorically stress that the absolute majority of the claims are not substantively true and that the budget money intended for the maintenance and development of indigenous national communities and for the functioning of their organisations is properly targeted and also used wisely. However, it is true that the situation can be improved in this area as well, so we are demanding systemic solutions in this regard. The confusion of national communities, their history, culture and language, as well as the undignified communication in this sensitive area are of no benefit to anyone, and it is therefore appropriate that in certain cases, the leadership of the State, including the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, should clearly express its position in this regard. Let me get this straight. As I have already pointed out, it is important for me and my colleague of the Italian Community, because of at least some of the sustainability of public finances, that the proposed rebalancing, despite some of the substantive concerns and after our assessment of the questionable solutions, to support us, and that the correctness of the Government in providing money in the programme and activities relating to the conservation and development of indigenous national communities is very important in our vote this time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u9	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Dusan Kumer will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u10	Thank you so much for saying that, Mr. President. Honorable Prime Minister of the Government, ministers, ministers, respected colleagues! At the beginning, I will take advantage of the opportunity and today, September 15 – today we celebrate the national holiday in Slovenia – the accession of the Primorska home country of Slovenia – to all in this Chamber and to all other citizens and citizens at this holiday. The 2011 state budget was adopted last November on the basis of well-known data and assessments of the global macroeconomic situation. In the spring, the government noted that data and estimates differ in the first half of 2011 from previous estimates and forecasts. The changed circumstances, which have been reflected in walking in the competitiveness of the economy, slowing foreign demand, tightening the financial environment and exacerbating the public financial situation, have considerably narrowed the prospects for a faster recovery of the Slovenian economy. The economic situation is also reflected in the expected low growth of private and public consumption. These are facts, this is a real state in which we also accept this budget rebalancing. Taking that into account, the Government proposes to amend the adopted budget in particular with a view to pursuing a key objective, namely the continuation of the policy of public financial stability. The proposal for a rebalancing therefore takes into account lower public financial revenues than originally planned, with public expenditure already adjusted to the existing reduced implementation in 2010 and to the current revenue estimates, so that the deficit of the State budget in the proportion of GDP does not differ significantly from the level planned in the 2011 budget. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are convinced that the adoption of the proposed balance provides opportunities for a gradual recovery of the economy. Above all, when deciding on the balance, it must be borne in mind that the possible decline in the balance would exacerbate the economic and social situation, including for citizens and citizens, or in particular for them. The adoption of the balance is also the only measure that can maintain our country's confidence in economic policy on international financial markets. Such confidence is still important for Slovenia, as the responsibility to preserve the social state and to finance economic development largely depends on the country's credit rating class. The adoption of the balance sheet is therefore crucial for preserving the credit risk of the country and consequently for the recovery of the Slovenian economy. After the fall of the pension reform, the rebalancing represents the only immediate measure that can maintain this confidence in international financial markets. I would like to have this fact before our eyes all the time and that the opponents of the rebalancing are aware of the far-reaching extent of the possible consequences of its possible rejection. So this rebalancing is not only important for this government, for Slovenia today, at this moment, but for every next government and future of Slovenia in general. Therefore, I propose that we evaluate it realistically, under given circumstances and with the facts and not through the eyeglasses of the likeness of the electoral campaign either for early or regular elections. The fall of ratings is not bound and depends on the outcome of the elections, and whenever they are with us. The proposal for the 2011 budget rebalancing is therefore prepared because the public financial revenues are lower than planned. If we want to maintain the same amount of government budget deficit as foreseen for 2011, we need to support the proposed rebalancing which reduces the expenditure of the state budget by 365 million euros, as the original planned revenues are unfortunately falling to the same extent. The proposal for a rebalancing follows the exit strategy as it reduces the deficit by reducing expenditure and not by increasing taxes, which is a significant measure by many countries within the euro area. Therefore, the deficit reduction strategy without the simultaneous increase in taxes chosen by Slovenia is one of the rarest. Most of the euro area countries are partially reducing the deficit by also increasing taxes, which, in our view, is an even worse measure for the recovery of the economy in the Social Democrats Group. The proposal for a budget rebalancing, similar to the budgets already adopted, follows three basic objectives: the developmental orientation of the budget, the saving and the provision of social security. As has already been said, saving is based on a reduction of € 365 million. In addition, a new intervention law has been drawn up, which severely restricts public sector employment and will actually have an impact on halting expenditure growth in 2012. It should be borne in mind that such a measure is essential if we are to stop the increase in public servants' salaries. Although the previous government has at least declared itself in favour of reducing the number of employees in public administration, it has not been successful. It is undeniable that the number of employees in the previous mandate has increased in the public sector. The number is about 6,000. Also during this period, the current government has increased employment. I mean, it's less, but it's getting bigger. That's a fact. However, the reasons for such an increase differ from the previous period, including as a result of pre-election measures or the decision on free kindergarten for another child, and we have not provided and earmarked for such a measure in the budget. There is also an increase in the number of social workers, mainly in social work centres and in nursing homes. The number of pensioners is increasing and the need for long-term care and other public services related to population ageing is increasing. Therefore, in these areas, saving cannot be achieved if we want to maintain the existing level of social protection and not interfere with acquired social rights. In the Group of Social Democrats, we are aware that more serious action will have to be taken to ensure that the public sector is more productive. The envisaged modernisation of the health system as one of the measures should go in this direction, if, of course, it also receives appropriate public support. With regard to the proposal for a linear reduction of salaries in the public sector in the Group of Social Democrats, we consider that this is a false measure that would result in more bad than good. It would increase the number of recipients of the minimum wage, further reduce motivation for work and thus reduce the productivity of the public sector. Instead, the proposals for austerity measures should go towards reducing public sector operating costs, which would not result in a reduction in the quality of public sector services. In the Group of Social Democrats, we support the direction of maintaining social sensitivity and do not agree to lower social state standards. However, we strongly condemn abuses in the unfair use of social transfers, which unfortunately are still taking place. We are therefore also asking the Government to take more decisive measures with regard to more effective control and sanctioning of offenders. Despite all sorts of austerity measures and criticisms about the allegedly underdeveloped budget and the rebalancing, it should be stressed that the government is still maintaining the developmental orientation of the State budget in 2011, as investment expenditure and investment transfers are increasing. Thus, in 2011, they are higher by 108 million compared to 2010, amounting to 11.6% of the increase. Developmental orientation is also measured by the level of resources for higher education, science, technology, information society and the policy of entrepreneurial competition. Here the figures are clear and irrefutable, and they say that in 2011 the funds for developmental conversion are EUR 857 million or 2,33 % of GDP. This increase in resources by investing in human resources and restructuring the economy will contribute to higher long-term potential economic growth. Investing in human resources mainly brings long-term benefits and, of course, it is not possible to measure them today. As a result, funding for higher education in addition to funds for the economy is much higher than that in 2008, when only EUR 644 million or 1.73% of GDP were provided for the same purpose, while the economic situation was quite different today. While trends in the labour market as we speak of the unemployed are moving in a positive direction to increase the demand for new jobs, the percentage of the unemployed who have received employment is higher than in the previous year, an additional 118 million for the unemployed should be provided. In view of the fact that additional resources are also needed to reduce unemployment, funds for active employment policies are increasing. More resources are thus included in the Employment and Self-Employment Promotion Programme, for almost €30 million. In addition, funds for social inclusion and social entrepreneurship are increasing. Because today there will be a lot of words in the search for culprits or the reasons for some negative trends, I will try to stop and comment on one of these. A lot of criticism, mainly from today's opposition, is about low economic growth. True, economic growth could also be higher. But this is not only because of the inadequate economic and financial policy of this government, but also because of its roots in the past, whether we recognize it or not. Facts are facts and no politics can overwhelm this. One of the fundamental reasons for slow economic growth today is that it has been based on enormously increased debt since 2005. The most gross external debt increased by €10 billion in 2007, i.e. the amount of this year's annual budget. Thus, 6,8 % of economic growth at the time was at the level of broken foundations. The total external gross debt increased from €15.343 billion to €39.238 billion within the mandate of the previous government. Thus, in the time of the fat cows, external debt increased by just under EUR 24 billion, which is 6 billion per year, about 500 million per month and about 17 million per day. This is the amount that Slovenia has not created in 15 years of its existence. From the net creditor, we have successfully become a net debtor, even with the assistance of today's low economic growth critics. These are the facts. I know some people hurt. But speaking of today’s problems and the consequences of what they are, it is not possible to silence these truths and these facts. These are also the root causes of today’s problems, for over-indebtedness during that period is a legacy that also has a key impact on action in today’s situation. Most contributed to this was the construction sector and many Taiwanese acquisitions based solely on debt and more. True, economic growth could also be higher at the expense of some more credible measure taken by today's government. However, current economic growth is also due to the wrong past economic policy that has overheated the economy. Some of us have warned about this and talked about it in the spring of 2008, and you warned us not to intimidate people with financial crisis and overheating the economy. The fact is that since 2008, gross external debt has not increased significantly and is now slightly over €42 billion. What could the state have done in the event of such a high indebtedness of the economy? The 2009 Business Guarantee Scheme made it easier for companies in the Republic of Slovenia to obtain liquidity funds to finance investments in investments and convertible assets, and made it possible to grant loans of EUR 841 billion. It should also be borne in mind that the State, through the Bank's SID during the crisis, financed around EUR 2.8 billion of projects, which contributed significantly to the developmental financing of businesses during the crisis. With regard to the criticism of the too slow reduction of the budget deficits I hear in this Chamber or on committees and commissions, every day, if only an opportunity, it should be stressed that these same criticisms should sometimes be seen in their own mirror, since the legal obligations they have left this government have previously prevented a faster reduction of the deficit, since the legal obligations already exceed 80% of the budget or budget expenditure. On the other hand, it is true that many of the current proposals by the opposition also do not reduce the State budget's obligations. On the contrary, they all went in the direction of expansion. We have made one brief calculation and found that the overall impact of these proposed measures in these last two years is almost €2 billion, without taking into account the necessary resources for large infrastructure projects that we have also read. And what would be the effect of these proposals if they were adopted in this national assembly? Double the deficit from 6 % to more than 10 %. Clearly, some critics today have learned little from their own mistakes. They still do not understand what most countries in the European Union understand – that public spending must also be reduced at the same time as tax cuts. This was not taken into account when they were in power when they made the deficit structure worse for around 2% of GDP, as tax cuts were not followed by a reduction in public consumption. This is even less taken into account now that the economic, social and financial situation is even more difficult in the opposition. Moreover, they voted against all the austerity measures necessary because of the hole partly caused by the crisis and in part their pre-election promises and measures. Let me just mention Virant's salary reform, which has twice as much effect as he predicted. The amount of funds needed to eliminate wage imbalances is 800 and not 400 million, as you said in 2008. The savings from 2004 to 2008 amounted to approximately EUR 300 million. So this drink cost us about half a billion euros. And what could the government have done with such a legacy? Since the beginning of the mandate, it has had to freeze the legal obligations by means of intervention measures. In the area of public sector wages, it implemented measures between 2009 and 2012, which have frozen the legal obligations of EUR 967 million. It has also been forced to slow down the coordination of social transfers and pensions. Such measures would not be necessary to this extent if some of the recommendations and warnings of the European Commission, the International Monetary Fund, economists and, last but not least, the SD Group were taken into account in the previous mandate. It is therefore necessary to refresh the memory that in the SD we have already advocated the need for pension reform in the previous term, because, at that time and today, we do not want pensioners, including new pensioners, to receive smaller pensions than is necessary. Therefore, compared to the 2011 budget adopted, the funds earmarked for investments are indeed the most declining. However, it should be pointed out that, compared to the 2010 implementation, these funds have also increased. If it does not wish to intervene further in legally guaranteed rights, wages, pensions, transfers, investment and expenditure on goods and services are almost the only segment where things can be reduced. For all these reasons, we will support the balance of the budget in the parliamentary group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u11	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Janez Janša will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u12	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Since we were just listening to a performance, as if the speaker were coming from some dissident opposition party, I will try to present a slightly broader or macro-economic picture about the rebalancing. Allow me to join the Prime Minister's greetings to the Primors on the national holiday of the return of Primorska to her homeland, with the hope that the right to celebrate this holiday, which we introduced in 2005, will be restored to the Primors. With regard to the balance sheet, the balance or budget is always a macroeconomic picture of the state in the country. This is always a document that has seen the results of government economic policy. The first thing to say about this is that today, as well as in the previous weeks, when the debate was held on this issue, we miss the position of the strong strategic councils that the Government had set up at the beginning of the mandate as a follow-up to this document. I have not found anywhere the position of the fiscal world, I have not observed anywhere the position of the strategic economic council, although these bodies are set up precisely to say something about such documents that determine the macroeconomic development of the country in the future, and these are government bodies where people are also receiving symbolic or more than symbolic payments for saying something. So we might still appeal to these authorities to say something about this rebalancing before it's accepted. With regard to the general picture, first of all, the recognition that the situation in which the Government has proposed this and also the situation in which the Government has proposed the budgetary documents so far in this mandate have not been simple. They were difficult. These are today, they were last year and before last year, and the current government and the current proponent of this document are not responsible for the economic crisis in the world, the United States, the European Union and the European Monetary Union, nor for what has happened in Greece, Portugal or Ireland. And because of this from this government and also from these numbers in this balance it is not fair to expect the results as they were during the period, say, from 2000 to 2008, because this would be unfair. However, it is justified to expect from every government, including that it achieves results that are good in relation to the environment, in this case with the European Union and with the European Monetary Union, because we operate under approximately the same conditions. And our criticism is focused on this point. Slovenia has, in fact, developed since its independence until 2009, by growing faster than the European Union, by making up the backlog of some ten percentage points in development, reaching 21% of the European average in 2008. Since then, we have begun to fall within the mandate of this government, and I think we have now fallen by 5 percentage points. And this relative comparison is the one that says that under similar conditions, the Slovenian government, in the same conditions as the economy or the economy of comparable countries in our environment, has taken measures that were not at this level. For since 2009, not only has Slovenia not achieved faster development than those who are more developed than we are and who we want to catch up to, but it has fallen, despite having some great comparative advantages at the beginning of the crisis. The largest was one of the lowest, second lowest sovereign debt in the euro area or in the euro area. This debt has doubled over the past three years. It has not yet reached a limit from the European Stability and Growth Pact and the Maastricht criteria, but the trend with which it has doubled and with which it has grown is the fastest in Europe in three years and is therefore extremely worrying. This is not just our assessment, it is also an assessment of international financial and European institutions, and we would suggest that we take it seriously. This relative comparison, when instead of growing by 3 percentage points faster than the European Union, we fall by at least that much faster, shows that three years are lost behind us, and this loss is unrelentingly dispersed in the numbers ahead of us in this balance. The Slovenian Democratic Party has been calling attention to the wrong direction for three years, proposing measures. Together, we proposed 266. The total did not increase the burden. What was said before was meant. All the calculations were made. At the beginning of the mandate, we proposed the establishment of a bad bank, the clearance of the balance sheets of the largest state banks, the rehabilitation of the banking system, the facilitation of the economy to create new jobs. All of this has been rejected, in fact, until the last hearing of the candidate for economic minister, who has proposed the same – relief for investments in the economy and so on – as if some would only wake up after three years. The numbers that are in this balance are, of course, bitter. It's not enough time to go over all the items that are crucial. That probably doesn't make sense. More will be said by my colleagues in the debate. But the key ones that show the macro picture say that the direction that is written in this rebalancing, despite trying to create a different impression, is the same direction that brought Slovenia into a state when it has to shrink and tighten the belt in all areas. The deficit to be reduced by this rebalancing is still greater than all the investment items in this budget, which means that we will also be in charge of more than we will invest after this rebalancing, and that there will be a large part of what we will be indebted to, with this deficit remaining, either in the air or in the free running – without making at least a hundred metres of way forward. At the same time, we find in it — I will not list them, but at least 30 — various items where red tape funds increase for expensive rents. Those, for example, remain for the NPU, although it was said that the contract would be terminated. And there's no saving. We have heard this in the introduction today, and we have heard this since the Government has been preparing this rebalancing, including the mantra on how everything needed to be done at the beginning of this mandate in order to maintain social cohesion. The Slovenian Democratic Party has supported all the measures taken by this Government in this direction. At the same time, we have warned that simply increasing the country's indebtedness at the expense of future generations and spending this money to eat it is simply not enough because it will soon run out. And after three years, we're where he's gone. Maintaining social cohesion also had only partial results. Go to some Slovenian regions where unemployment has increased dramatically at this time, where living is significantly worse than in Ljubljana, and you will see that talking about social cohesion is a very relative thing. It's probably easier to talk like that if you don't see reality. That is why the government has also left its visits in the Slovenian regions, which it has made in three years, I think, four or five, so that it is not easily observed. From the very beginning, we have warned that at least part of this minimum of 8 billion, to the extent that this government owes future generations, should also be committed to strengthening economic dynamics in order to create new jobs, which would in itself reduce the pressure on social transfers. At least part of that 8 billion should go for development. Since this has not happened, after three years we have reached the moment of truth, and this truth is written on several items in this balance. It is clear from these items that the Government is now forced to cut both investment and social cohesion funds after three years of failed government policies. I do not know how it was possible for these debates, except for a few exceptions, to see that not only investment funds were being cut down, but social protection funds were also being cut short. Together with this rebalancing, funds for social protection, for the protection of families and children and for the provision of 90 million. Since we have not invested, nothing has grown, and today obviously we also need to save on seeds for the future and food because they are empty. Many are being operated on with numbers that are supposed to be intended on this so-called social side for unemployment. That's a really big number. The government is increasing unemployment compensation by almost 120 million through this rebalancing. And there's almost 30 million more here for the so-called active employment policy. At the same time, in recent months, we have been listening to the decline in the number of unemployed and how the number will not increase in the future. Why, then, 150 million more for unemployment if this figure does not increase? This stat doesn't seem to work together. In front of all of us who have this document ahead of us, there are actually two bad choices today. If the balance sheet is rejected, then the situation remains the way it is, and this is a budget that is not implemented, which is frozen. For the first time in the history of this country and I think that any other country has frozen the implementation of the budget after five months of the financial year. Such a government economic policy cannot expect any solutions and no movement. Such linear freezing measures are emergency solutions at the end of the year, but they cannot be a solution after five months of budget implementation. So if the balance goes down and the situation stays the way it is, it's bad. If the figures proposed in the balance sheet are confirmed, then we'll have a little bit of a mix-up and in fact remain the same. So we have two bad choices. In the Slovenian Democratic Party, we have decided not to intervene in any way and we will not simply vote for this balance. Take it yourself if you want it. There will be no significant difference, some things will get worse with it. What this document has only brought good is an opportunity to discuss where we really are. And this silence, which is also very talkative, of the competent strategic councils and of the current government's tanks, which have completely been silenced in this document, says much. Although it would not be discussed about these things, but about everything else, in order for everything else to be current, there is a strong effort and effort, it may be possible, however, to draw attention to some of these numbers to the fact that the general public in Slovenia is also a little more aware of where we are and why we are in such a situation. If you listen to a previous performance in the style of representatives of any dissident opposition party, then you should defend yourself against the obvious that the former government is still responsible for this situation because it has increased Slovenia's gross external debt. The talk was about credits that were rented by companies and individuals or households at a time when money was cheap on the European market, and the government had no influence. The current government also has no influence on whether the Frenchman from Maribor will rent a loan and buy an apartment. That's for him to decide. The data listed are also incomplete. The government doesn't know who hired the loan. There's no perfect sum of it anywhere. For the economy in part – Banka Slovenije has data from those banks operating here, but if someone leases credit elsewhere, there is no such data. And operating with those 50 billion doesn't make sense. The government is not responsible for this. In part, the Bank of Slovenia has control over this. One of the governors, who was the longest in office at the time, is today the minister in this government. If he allowed people and businesses to overindebt themselves, then you'll have to deal with it in the government coalition. But it also had no major impact on us because we are part of a European space, we have the euro, and the national government cannot limit it. Mantra about how the Slovenian economy has once overheated and that is why we are now falling too much is a bad, amateur excuse that doesn't convince anyone seriously, and it counts on some effect that was made during our term, when people were afraid that economic growth was something bad. In 2006, the government commissioned a public opinion survey in which people were asked: "Do you think that the economic growth achieved by the country or by high economic growth, if achieved by the state, is personally good or bad for you?" More than 30% of the people under the influence of the propaganda at the time replied that it was bad for them. I hope that at least part of this 30% after three years of negative or poor economic growth, however, knows that positive economic growth is something good. But all economists have long known that positive economic growth is the only serious basis for prosperity in society, that without economic growth not only in the long term, but also in the medium term, progress cannot be made, that every debt is limited, that every lunch must be paid. And every serious economist also knows that only with economic growth can we create new jobs. If this had been done in the last three years and the number of unemployed had not increased by 60,000 at that time, there would also have been no problems with the pension register. Returning the reasons for the bad numbers in this balance to the fall of the so-called pension reform at the referendum is deceiving the naive. Even if the law had been passed, it would have brought EUR 30 million this year, while the fear of this pension reform had caused 30% more people to retire last year because they were afraid of it, and this year this pressure on the pension fund, which is now being lifted from the budget. So, don't look for reasons for this situation where they're simply not there, because we're all going to pay these bills. One more time at a time: we will not vote for or against this balance. I know that the current government is selling abroad, how important it is that this is the same as the Italian austerity measures for 50 billion. The last message of the European Commission shows that it does not believe this because they said that there is a huge difference between promises and what is then done in Slovenia. It is said that we will not bring anyone in Brussels with this. But the big question is, what legacy does the Government with such numbers leave for those who will solve this problem in the future? In any case, we'll all be paying the bill, and we need to be aware of that.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u13	Thank you very much. Mr Aloj Potočnik will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u14	Your Honor! In the Group of Members, we will indeed support this year's budget rebalance, especially because there are virtually no or very few alternatives. In doing so, we would like to draw attention to the logic of public finances and to the question of how to increase revenue and not how to share what comes into the budget in the future, as well as the other three cash registers. The balance isn't ready as you'd like. I'll be forced to repeat some speeches before me. The fact is that the structure of the rebalancing and the cutting of funds is not cutting on the right items. With the rebalancing, investments are virtually halted, and there is also a slowing down of development funds and incentives for the economy, which are very important at the moment, probably crucial. In the parliamentary group, we regret that the rebalance does not express the repeated words of the Government and the opposition that competitiveness is the first priority of the state. The promotion of entrepreneurship and competitiveness is taking a major part of the means. Projects have been prepared, funds have been distributed to them, and investors will now have to postpone their implementation in the coming years. So far, the proposal for a rebalancing foresees EUR 360 million less than the current budget. In doing so, we note that it is not really about saving EUR 360 million, at least not entirely, since European funds are also included in this amount, which are intended for development projects and investments. Otherwise, as it is said, there are virtually no other alternatives, or the financial ministry may, in the event of a fall in the balance sheet in the National Assembly, reach out to the end of the financial year measure, which means that the budget does not accept new commitments, with the exception of urgent ones, and that only agreed payments are made. This, in our view, is an even worse option because it makes the work of ministries even more difficult, and the biggest collateral victim is citizens. A key role in the future will be the preparation of baselines for amending the 2012 budget and for the 2013 budget. We are rightly concerned here that the logic of dividing what we are collecting in the budget will still prevail. We think that logic should be reversed. It will be necessary to deal with how to ensure that additional resources start to flow back into the budget. We've had these years. Therefore, more attention will have to be paid to increasing the competitiveness of the economy, while at the same time it will be necessary to look at the potential inflows to the state budget that we do not wish or know at the moment. In doing so, I would recall at least the introduction of the property tax, the non-use of the tax rate institute and something else, not the debt. In the Group of Members, we will indeed support the rebalancing, and we are not jumping with joy, but we will do so, as we have already said, with our teeth pressed, for the reasons already stated in today's debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u15	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, the position will be presented by mag. Radovan Žerjav.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u16	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Prime Minister, ministers and ministers, colleagues and colleagues! To begin with, the Slovenian People's Party will not support this rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011. We will not support it primarily for substantive reasons and because we are convinced that such fiscal policy is completely flawed. We believe that this is not actually a rebalance, but it is some reallocation of spending between individual budget consumers, especially among those where ministers left their chairs three months ago. The reason for this rebalancing is obviously not a pension reform which, unfortunately, was not adopted and we have done everything ourselves to be, because it is necessary, but is a reason in the lower revenues of the budget than foreseen. This rebalancing is proof that the government is in agony and that it does not have the right concept, it has no real vision of how to proceed. As a good proof of this claim, the facts already speak when on one hand we hear strong statements about saving – much is spoken of by the President of the Government and I absolutely support him here. This is what the members of the European People's Party stand for in the European political floor. On the other hand, we hear from this same cabinet of ministers that there is no need to save money to be spent. So it advocates exactly the same old socialist logic when we financed spending by printing on Topchider. Unfortunately, we don't have this Topchider anymore today. At the same time, we have also heard that one of the candidates for a minister has not accepted a candidate for a Culture Minister, although this item is already 20 million euros higher than that item in 2008. So, wrong world. The logic that I call bureaucratic consumer logic, where it doesn't matter where the funds come from, is important to spend and spend. Or else: don't postpone what you can spend today. As we see from the slides, revenue is falling compared to 2008. Today I will make this comparison several times because it is very informative given that 2008 was the year in which we had a flat budget. We're not going to go into the details, plus, minus 10 million euros, but it was flat. Interesting comparisons are made to the time when fat cows were dipped in honey and milk when they were wasted long and thin without any control. Therefore, revenue is falling by 600 million compared to 2008 and expenditure is increasing by a good billion. I think it's unacceptable that, despite the fact that we've prepared a balance sheet, the deficit is still increasing. For a small sum, though. I'm sure that's not a good signal. So we're increasing the gap. If I make a quick comparison between the two budgets, the ones in force, and those on the table today, I find that there is an increase in funds for foreign affairs, otherwise minimally in order to increase funding for education and sport and for social services – except for the Ministry of Finance. On the other hand, we are drastically reducing investments at the Ministry of Transport. This brings us down to the bottom of 2008. We're lowering funds for local government, probably investments, just like local government. And what worries me most is that we are reducing the budget of the Ministry of Economy by 77 million. On the one hand, we have education, sport, work, social and foreign affairs growing and on the other hand, investment and economy. I don't think this is the right way to make it wrong. And for that reason, we will not support this rebalancing. In recent times, the President of the Government has spoken many times about social cohesion. We were of the opinion that it was necessary at the time of the crisis to do what was done to strengthen social cohesion, but I say that there are also borders here, that a line should be drawn somewhere. Social cohesion is also not endlessly large and infinite. I am afraid that if we continue in this direction – I have also said this several times at the time of this budget – otherwise we will remain socially connected, but we will also bankrupt the social ties. Giving money to people to do nothing is wrong and disastrous. We need to put a stick in their hands so they can fish. It is true that some ponds are empty fish. Some individuals have even emptied the water from these ponds. But we have to fill them with water and fish. In other words, to regulate the business environment so that the economy is competitive and creates jobs. I'm saying there's still no saving. Or as a former economist, I understand him differently than he wants to introduce himself. And this time, I'm going to make a comparison with 2008, which is between 2008 and the balance we have today on the table. This chart shows that some ministries, however, can save – some. Some, we'll say, may be under duress, as they call it, for example, the Ministry of Defence, the Ministry of Transport. I'd like to point out the Ministry of Public Administration, because I think it's done the most. But there's evidence that we can. But we have a whole bunch of ministries, such as culture, internal affairs, the environment and space, education and sport, and maybe some where it can be done substantially more. If I speak in general, more could be done in all ministries. More. If we touch some other budgetary consumers. If we look at non-governmental and government budget consumers. I found 18 such budget consumers, NGOs and government, who will spend more this year than they spent in 2008. They have nothing to do with the economic crisis. They have absolutely no connection to the financial and economic crisis in order to have any influence to be more occupied or anything else — 18 of them. I could have listed them here, but it doesn't make sense. But if we're going to save ourselves, it's unacceptable. Equal Opportunities Office, Secret Data Protection Office, Owl, Climate Change Service, Slovenian Office around the world. We set up a ministry for Slovenians around the world, and the office is spending more than it spent in 2008, when this office was probably functioning normally. And all these offices, all these budget consumers were functioning normally in 2008. I don't have an answer why this is so, except that the supervisors, the chiefs, the directors of these consumers are simply allowed to make up an item, that they need funds, and that they will probably stop working without it. I think there should be order here. And when order is made here and when we prove that all budget consumers are saving, it will also be easier to find social consensus for the major changes that are urgently needed in Slovenia. That there was no saving, I proved in 2009 on the item of goods and services where I proved that what was not spent throughout the year was spent in December. I've prepared some graphs to restore memory. That's what happened in 2009. We have done this analysis for 2010 and there have been no major changes. I believe something similar will happen in 2011. Well, they're reserves. This is only one item, goods and services, only one item. There are an infinite number of such items in the budget. So, there are reserves. That's what you can spend today. Don't put it on tomorrow. It seems incomprehensible to me that I will not say even absurdly – but there was no real denial – what was published in the media during the first half of this year was the employment of 2 000 258 people. And even if there are fewer of them, I think, regardless of the obvious of all the remaining mandates of other governments, the times are different today. The economy has lost 60,000 jobs. It is incomprehensible to burden this economy, which has lost 60,000 jobs, with new costs in public administration. I don't understand. Moreover, on the basis of the question I have received from the Member States, there is also an interesting area of progress, data on progress across ministries compared to the situation in 2008. For example, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs had 10 secretaries in 2008, and today it has 24. Some other ministries have doubled the number of secretaries if I concentrate solely on secretaries. If we look at the financial implications of advancing to a higher title and advancing to a higher pay grade, I have not received from all the real data ministries – from public administration, agriculture, justice, transport and local self-government – here is the cost of 22 million at an annual level. Maybe it's justified. But I don't know why some ministries need so many secretaries compared to their previous mandate. These are all issues that are relevant, important and suggest that there is no savings. And I believe that there are also budget consumers, that there are ministries that take this much more seriously. It is also a worrying graph of the relationship between children and employees in education and education. This schedule applies not only to this mandate but to all mandates. Systematic changes will certainly have to be made here in the future. In 2010, we had nine children per teacher or tutor. For the period 2009-2010, this is 7.5, and this ratio is still decreasing. There's probably gonna have to be some serious changes here, too. All I've shown is that we don't have the concept of real savings, that we don't have the right framework, that we don't have the right will or desire to really turn that euro once or twice in each case. Some do it better, some do it less good. And I am firmly convinced that we will all have to participate in this saving, all of us, without exception. Of course, they will have to be examples of government, ministries, the public sector as a whole. And it is only then that, according to my assessment, we will also get a social consensus on the necessary changes and measures, so that I do not say reform, in all other areas, which, at least in the next term or in the next four years, must be implemented. And that's before us whether we want it or not. Since I am still speaking, and I have some time, I have some interesting graphs ready for indirect budget consumers, for those who deal with the social transfer system. For example, this is a employment schedule at the Institute of the Republic of Slovenia for employment in 10 years. If we look further at the operating costs of the Employment Institute of the Republic of Slovenia, we see that these have risen by 74% in 10 years. These are salaries, contributions, expenditure on goods and services, investments, with EU resources and without EU resources 58. Looking at social work centres, employment, the number of employees has risen by 35% in 10 years. The movement of the operating costs of social work centres has risen by 149 % in 10 years. If we look at the number of employees at the Institute for Pension and Disability Insurance, I will say that it is still at an acceptable level and the operating costs have increased by 113% in 10 years. It is not an economic operator in Slovenia, Europe and the world who would transfer such an increase in costs within 10 years in a unit of product. He's not here. Such trends could probably show a lot more. The question is, when are we going to stop these trends, or more when are we going to turn these trends down, given that the Slovenian economy can no longer bear this burden? And if we put more pressure on him with these trends, there is no point in talking about increasing the competitiveness of the Slovenian economy. It doesn't make sense! First, many cuts in the public sector, many cuts, radical ones, including the number of ministries, including the number of offices, agencies and so on. And then, of course, down to the congregations, to public administrations and so on. If we do not do so, we will not get a social consensus to make changes in all other important areas that are necessary – pension reform, health reform, 'economic reform', labour market reform and so on. These are the reasons that lead us to conclude that the direction we are going in is wrong, that there are many such things here that are not conditioned by history that are not conditioned by the mandate of the previous government and could be changed in these three years without any problems. We have shown in the Slovenian People's Party that we can help. We have also helped you with those issues that are not popular, which do not have political points. But there are a lot of things that can be done, and unfortunately there are no. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u17	Thank you very much. Mr Anton Urh will present the position on behalf of the DeSUS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u18	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Mr President of the Government, ministers and ministers, fellow Members and fellow Members! The opinion of the Dessus Group is likely to be known to you by now. This is a story drawn from the adoption of the budget for this year, and for those outstanding or unheard requests and proposals made by the parliamentary group as well as by the Democratic Party of Slovenian pensioners regarding the coordination of pensions. This sceptical opinion is therefore still present in the discussions on the rebalancing of this budget, as well as the tendency to oppose this proposal for a rebalancing, even though this rebalancing does not touch on pensions. However, it indirectly touches pensions in a way that severely limits investment and does not bring any improvements in income. This makes it difficult to create new jobs, thus reducing the inflow to the pension fund. In general, the overall balance is designed to limit investment, whether investment in transport infrastructure, investment in health, culture and so on. Thus, the Ministry of Health will be deprived of €23 million, which threatens both the completion of the projects already started and the projects planned. As an example, let me mention the completion of the diagnostic and therapeutic service facility within UKC Ljubljana, which represents a priority investment for the Ministry of Health. Transport funds are falling by €128.2 million to €537.1 million. However, the biggest contraction is in the field of investment. Such a proposal inhibits already-initiated investments in important projects from rail to road and airport infrastructure, and consequently destroys construction companies in Slovenia. The rebalance also reduces the Ministry of Culture's resources by EUR 17 million in terms of the budget adopted and, in fact, almost EUR 20 million in terms of the budget in force. Thus, investment funds have decreased by €13 million and investment funds in the integrated budget by €3 million. The dynamics of certain projects and investments had to be slowed down. However, funds are provided to complete the reconstruction of the Ljubljana Opera, the Museum of Contemporary Art and the Metelkova Gate and the reconstruction of the Ptuj military station for the needs of the archive, which gives at least a little positive hope. Of course, we cannot go beyond reducing funds for the consumption of municipalities, where EUR 28 million is involved. Together, almost EUR 50 million is allocated to the congregations. Overall, budget revenues will fall by € 365 million compared to the current budget. In the DeSUS Group, we are aware of what the budget and its balance are. We are aware that this is a state-created element necessary for the normal functioning of the country. Personally, I cannot help but express my opinion on the creation of this balance. I would like to make a very positive assessment of that point that says that the state will not be in further debt. I think it's right for the belt to tighten in this place. But when I look at other things, such as moving funds from one item to another, I have a lot of concerns. In my opinion, this transfer of funds from one item to another is harmful and does not, in the long term, bring some important results for the development of our country. On the income side, I think the government should do a lot more than it did. This is how we talk about saving, which has not been implemented to such an extent that something really saves. That is why today this revenue and expenditure side is as it is. The decline in investment is, in my view, very critical and very questionable. Everywhere else we could reduce some austerity measures. Also by reducing public administration employees and public administration costs, I would fully and immediately agree, but not by reaching out to this most vital area, i.e. the area of investment. Of course, we are talking about investing in one way or another, but you need to know that not all the projects in which they invest are designed to restore added value. As I have already said, in the DeSUS Group, we believe that a rebalance must be created, but our assessment of this proposal is not the same, because there has been too little work done in the field of income, too much interference with investment, even those which are essential for public services in the field of health and the like.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u19	Mr. Urh, can you finish the presentation slowly?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u20	I'll be right with you. The government will really have to draw out extremely good arguments to convince us that we will also support such a proposal as it is before us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u21	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u22	Mr Vice-President, Honourable President of the Government, Minister and Ministers! I must begin by congratulating on behalf of the entire Slovenian National Party and on my behalf all Primorkam and Primors for their holiday today. Unfortunately, the Slovenian government does not want this holiday to be celebrated. Rather, it sends hundreds of thousands of euros to some exotic countries, probably at the request of the United States and forgets its own people. Therefore, Primorke and Primorci, the Slovenian National Party has not forgotten you and I congratulate you once again on the holiday! In the presentation of the budget, the Government clarified the position of the planned budget to follow the continuation of investments in development, which is to promote the economy and knowledge. It should also be aimed at ensuring social security in the face of acute conditions and the labour market. In fact, the balance of the budget is a constant in all governments and it represents nothing that we would not already know. However, it must be put in the interest of economic development, not in any way by weakening the already weakened economy by reckless decisions and stopping development projects and targets in the country. It is also not logical, with a balance, to condition the existence of a minority government, which we have, in fact, since DeSUS's exit, now Zaresa. This is just another step closer to the truth that everyone who boasts in politics about being responsible for the electorate and the state shows this by doing the same when the partners leave when it is the most difficult. However, minority governments in Europe are known. They have Sweden, Denmark, the Netherlands and Spain, and they are all running normally, I could say more transparently and less impervious, but also more acceptable to citizens. In fact, it is now a unique opportunity to reduce the number of ministries, rationalise the number of employees and consequently relieve the budget. However, responsible and capable people must be placed in these places, not those who are on the scene and without their own tendency. Those who have not mastered the work that has been set and have not been able to follow the goals have been known mainly in this government, so it is necessary to put experts and not only politicians who blindly follow only the parties they belong to. It is simply results that are measurable and can also be cashed when borrowing loans from banks that are in poor condition, but for real business it is still possible to get credit. In the last three years since the start of the crisis, Slovenia has lost billions of dollars. In 2009, the deficit amounted to 2.1 billion and does not indicate any better. The public debt amounted to 38% of GDP at the end of last year, which is not worrying compared to European countries, and we may be concerned about the annual increase in Slovenia's debt, which is approaching 43% of the debt this year. So we will be in charge of 15.9 billion euros, which has increased by as much as 8 billion since 2008. That's what we need to worry about. Although the rebalancing was projected at the beginning of 450 million savings, it in reality reduces the sum to 360 million. If we compare the whole matter with the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, which is supposed to be around EUR 400 million, the value of savings with the balance sheet is lower than the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank. The reduction measures were most cut in transport infrastructure by 148 million. The Ministry of the Economy will be facilitated by 62 million, followed by agriculture, which will be reduced to a comparable amount, even though we know that financial sustainability in food production is necessary in order to achieve the objectives. However, social security and education and sport resources will be increased. There is less talk about stimulating the development of the economy and employment for higher added value, although this is the only right way to fill the budget. What rationalisation of the state administration by abolishing a number of unnecessary agencies and offices — various youth offices, climate change, equal opportunities — and another ten of them could count, which are their own purpose and are dozens of — there is no talk, but we all know that they are just hiring and are not saving anything. It is also necessary to abolish the legacy that remained in jobs after the ministers leave. We have too many of these on our country's payrolls. The figures show that they need to be reduced by up to 30%. If this had already happened, the budget would have been greatly facilitated and there should be no need to consider reducing public sector wages. All too much is said about the high labour costs and the fact that we are not competitive in the external markets. Slovenia is a small country, so it is necessary to build confidence on the potential we have. Everything needs to be adapted to the market, which is demanding but always accessible. Nor should we neglect the internal market, which is increasingly difficult, especially when it comes to foreign takers who never forget where they come from and who they remain in favor of. Only business success is crucial and profit must not be a negative category, as it is that segment of management that ensures the satisfaction of all stakeholders in the good management chain. We must not only accept the crisis as a bad thing, but as a signal that something needs to be changed and taken as a fact that you are digging out of trouble. This has proved quite a few Central European countries. But surely everything depends on the degree of trust that the rule of law must provide. Trust certainly, a moral attitude and at the same time a rational thought. The bankers swear that money is the most liquid asset we can all agree on. Therefore, it is also right to ask ourselves, when we have it, who we can trust, who will fulfill the promised promise at a certain time, which is the only absolute category among all others. Banks have taken over 1.6 billion euros at the expense of the taxpayers who have been rehabilitating these banks. So far, it has not shown itself with a finger to the one who is to blame and who is to be responsible for the situation as we have it. As we can see, the personnel in these banks are still the same, so I believe that whoever has failed is also unable to correct the situation. Surely in this we are immediately offered a reckless decision to give money to the Greeks and billions of guarantees. Today, trust is a good that cannot be found on the market, so it is right to be sound and rational in key decisions, which cannot be said for a rebalancing which, according to the Slovenian National Party, covers only bad decisions by the Government and Parliament. Surely we cannot go beyond the statement made by the French Prime Minister, who said that what we are about to do for Greece will not be done for any other country. Let this be clear – for no other country. Lowering interest, extending deadlines, and I could count something. Mrs Merkel is also not concerned about the survival of small countries. In view of its statement, it is not only a solution to the euro and Greece, but mainly a solution to the strong German economy. And then let's ask ourselves who we're saving and who we're going to sink. In short, it is a controlled bankruptcy of Greece. It can only be ascertained that Greece will not be able to meet its obligations and still have control over the territory, so that the collapse of the country cannot be discussed. In Slovenia we are running out of money, and in order to borrow credits and give up our own people, we are allowing other countries to get a re-examination exam. It's wrong to pretend that guarantees are just a letter on paper. It is likely that the time will come when these billions will have to be laid down, something that some do not think about when they make such an easy promise. The balance is supposed to save our economy, unemployment and social hardship. American debt, unlike us, solves their own crisis because they only cover debt to their own entities, which is also a big difference and is not comparable to Greece, which covers losses to foreign investors. And how are we successful in collecting taxes and contributions? We are constantly faced with delays in contributions to pension and disability insurance, which are poor in cash, and as a result, it pushes into poverty those who work honestly and do not even inform them about these delays, even though it is part of their gross salary. Since January, there has been an amendment to the Tax Procedure Act, but, as we see, some substantial changes have not been detected. Injury cancer is the bankruptcy of large companies that further increase tax debt. The total off-balance sheet tax debt, for which recovery is unlikely, is largely due to bankruptcy and increased to more than €220 million from last year to the end of June this year. EUR 140 million of outstanding debt falls on debtors who owe more than EUR million, so that the share of this debt increased by 24% in this year alone in the first half of the year. Data show a dismal picture of the debtors over 4 000 euros in June this year. The debt amounted to EUR 598.3 million, of which EUR 380 million is negotiable and the payment is questionable for 36.8 million. Since money has to be received from somewhere, the state has decided to do so on the line of least resistance from traffic offences. At first glance, it seems very innocent, but when you calculate it more accurately, it is a huge amount. In Germany, penalties are inappropriately lower, and if we take into account wages and pensions, which are twice as low, we pay at least 24 times higher fines. This big difference in fines convinces us that it is only the purpose of filling the budget hole. It's just that money has to be made somewhere. Interestingly, the state of the bank is rehabilitating and the banks are acting all the way back to the country. As we read from the newspapers, Umar warns that banks are blocking Slovenia. Slovenian companies are hostage banks and banks are hostage-sustaining construction projects. Credit activity declines, business interest rates are highest in the European area, and banks are burdened by strong booking and weakening due to past bad loans, which further undermines business performance and hinders the lending of the economy. Banks have shifted to financing households, which certainly ensures a lower level of risk and thus lower capital adequacy. Of course, mistakes in the past are well known today, for the profits they shared among owners, rather than strengthening their capital adequacy, are even worse today and worse than the banking system. Of course, it is also the fault of the country, which did not ensure the prudent treatment of banks with money through its regulators, but at the same time did not recognise that banks are key to the condition and development of the Slovenian economy and should be strengthened as soon as the financial sector crisis was detected. The Slovenian economy is thus classified as one of the most indebted euro area economies with a slow recovery based on the ratio of credit to capital. It is not right for the state to go to the rails of Greece, Portugal and others which are being burdened by the crisis, i.e. to poverty at the expense of others, because, as we hear, some are not prepared to renounce practice. This applies mainly to Greece, where the Greek Government is not prepared to give up the luxury they have had all these years, because they are aware that there is interest elsewhere and not in the Greeks themselves. Surely, however, the financial reinforcement of investors in other countries of Europe is in their best interest. Otherwise, they're not supposed to get it as much as they promise, but if you know in advance that you won't get it back, discretion is guaranteed. The question is whether others will help us when we put ourselves in trouble at the expense of others, because then smart governments will save their own countries and capital, which is already present today by France and Germany. But the little ones will be forgotten, and it can happen that in the end we will be helping those who will swim at the expense of others. We will not support the Slovenian National Rebalancing Party because it does not save anything as it is set up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u23	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u24	Thank you very much. All together a pleasant budget good day, especially to the President of the Government, ministers, ministers, secretary of state and you, colleagues and colleagues! There's always a way in life that you can't share more than you have. We can share at these moments what we have, but we have what we create, and we have what we owe it to. But the fact is, we don't create enough, but we owe ourselves too much. Very simple, very simple. Therefore, in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia we predict support for the urgent budget rebalancing. Hand to heart, we have been expecting it for some time now, because the revenues of the state budget have fallen significantly in the second half of the year. The main reason is lower economic growth. Like previous budgets, budget changes and rebalans, savings are also targeted this year. Savings are mainly seen in the area of material costs, but unfortunately also in the field of investment. The balance in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia is understood as a necessary instrument to balance income and expenditure. We are simply aware that something essential in situations where Slovenia is currently in a position to do so is in fact impossible to do. It is therefore necessary and important to make use of this debate also for broader budgetary and, above all, for the development issues ahead of Slovenia in the future. The reason for the need for rebalancing can be summed up by the words that economic growth is certainly not as high as anticipated and as we wish, which has a bearing on the budget payments as well. Of course, the financial year without cuts is an additional debt. And since we have been hearing warnings in Europe and Slovenia every day, which we have been putting forward in our parliamentary group for a long time, these are warnings of the danger of indebtedness, the Government has decided wisely, necessary and prudently that it is necessary to cut down on the expenditure side of the budget. There's no other way. This year's public finances will be around €7.9 billion and € 365 million less than the budget adopted. Of course, we all want more, but how do we achieve this is another dilemma and another issue. As a result of these reduced revenues, expenditure is also falling at a level similar to that of revenue, which means that by the end of 2011 these expenditure will amount to €9.6 billion and the government budget deficit will be slightly less than €1.7 billion or 4.6% of gross social product. On the income side, the biggest deficits are mainly in VAT, excise duties, other taxes, as well as in income from assets and in European funds. It is worth noting, however, that revenue from profit tax increases by around €102 million, which is one of the few positive signs and gives us a glimpse of the hope that it will revive a certain part of the economy. In the meantime, expenditure for new construction, reconstruction and adaptations is the most reduced on the expenditure side by €185 million. Investment transfers are also falling by EUR 203 million, as well as expenditure on goods and services, or material costs, for a significant EUR 46 million. For approximately the same amount, payments to the European Union budget are also being reduced, which is fine. The difference of up to 365 million, to the extent that expenditure is being reduced, is reflected in an increase in the current transfer rate, as transfers to individuals and households are increasing by 44 million euros, and transfers to social security funds increasing by 119 million euros. This picture simply proves to us that Slovenia still has a huge amount of resources allocated to social security and the social state mechanism. These increases are mainly due to an increase in unemployment, resulting in increased transfers for unemployment benefits and social assistance. Since we are, as some like to point out, in politically unstable times, we would like to make a few words about the future prospects of the state of Slovenia's social state budgets in this debate. In the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club, we believe that a broad public debate on the functioning of the social state should be opened as soon as possible in Slovenia, as we believe it is more and more disstimulating, which is already having a strong impact on the ineffective functioning of the market. The difference between minimum wage benefits and social assistance is too small. For some who are skilled, in gimmicks, even inventive, the image is even reversed. It is certainly not normal for those who turn a child into a free kindergarten, as well as a second and a third, and then even in the morning, to miss a child in kindergarten, to receive monthly higher family income than those who work eight hours a month in the labour-intensive industries and pay contributions for those who are able to avoid them. I am pleased that the Ministry is preparing a single database that will address many anomalies and irregularities. That's good. It will be necessary to look not only at the records of us, but also across the border. It is happening that some work in neighbouring republics, countries, and in our country they are reported as unemployed, socially endangered and more. We have a lot of work to do in this area. In the Parliamentary Group of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia, we believe that the key question that we need to take to the heart of this debate is how it is possible for people to have more than €1.7 billion at the expense of the social state – only the extent of the Ministry of Labour, Family and Social Affairs funds – to still feel that the country is not well cared for by those who cannot get a job or are in social distress. It's simple and simply not true. The answer to this question is certainly complex, but we are confident of something: until we eliminate many anomalies in a system in which formally socially weak Mercedes and Mercedes will be driven to kindergartens for children, in which we will grant children whose parents live in luxury houses and have huge assets in which it will be more worthwhile to exploit the system and not work – until then, ladies and gentlemen, the dream of a successful society is over. We'll never be a bold Slovenia. In the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we are not even opposed to a strong social state, but we want to, and we will also fight for it, that it is at the same time strong and even more powerful than a just social state. We note that we are slowly but steadily becoming a country where some will share burdens and some will live off these burdens, especially from the burden of the active. It is a sad fact that many times those who are truly entitled to these funds fail to obtain the necessary, well-deserved assistance due to lack of bureaucratic knowledge and ingenuity. This has to be stopped. The Minister of Labour has done a lot in this area, but unfortunately the effects in practice do not show up as quickly as they would like. These efforts must therefore be upgraded and accelerated. We are also missing the realization of the well-known shortcut that we have all set ourselves for a goal – that it has to work in Slovenia. The public, especially the media, will also have to take responsibility for such events. Check out the daily news shows. How is it possible and logical that, for example, in some broadcast, there is first a contribution, how much too much Slovenia, compared to European criteria, to devote social expenditure, how high we are taxed precisely because of this, and the following contribution shows how badly any individual in this country who is in social distress is being treated and how the state is machete towards these people. It is necessary to say clearly and loudly: Slovenia is and must be a social state, but it must ensure the proper functioning of the control mechanisms and strict sanctioning of violators and exploiters. So much for the social state and the balance of the budget, where one of the rare items increasing is the increase in labour market expenditure of € 142 million. In the area of the economy, where income and also the revenue of the budget are generated, most of all parliamentary groups, including us, share the view that savings in investments are unfortunately not the most welcome and positive news for the economy. Everything before this, but unfortunately, it's necessary. In the case of an indebted economy where there is a chronic lack of investment, the state could trigger certain investments and thereby accelerate economic growth. Everything is always and everywhere can't be done with money. The fact that successful companies with a few hundred million incomes of successful projects with a 20-centimeter-high paper purchase in banks are unable to reach a million-dollar loan is something wrong. It is no secret that many private and public sector investments are waiting for months and years for construction permits. Even those in the municipal budgets that we manage investments for the state with state and European funds, after a year and more we stand in bureaucratic procedures in administrative units. And there's still a lot of work to be done in public administration to give it a head start. You can't brag about getting a ID card in two days, but you're waiting two years for a building permit. Citizens and citizens can easily wait for some kind of bureaucratic work for a week more, so that only the deployment of workers in administrative units is such that it will have the advantage of what is necessary and necessary for investment. Therefore, in the LDS, we are still aware of the fact that, without prejudice to certain rights and without prejudice to the employment sector in the public sector, investments cannot be kept at the planned levels. However, there is an enormous question, one of the most acid apples, how long, if it is not too late today, we will be able to maintain such a high level of rights, scope and size of the public sector, assuming that the size of the public sector is also measured by its effectiveness. How, without prejudice to these areas, will we consequently balance the budget in order to have sufficient resources both for the social state and for the necessary investments, and at the same time have a public financial deficit within the framework to which we have committed ourselves at European level? The largest client has been alerting for a long time, and it is justified that we should not only cut on investments, but that the budget for inefficient or inefficient items should be rewinded. Unfortunately, however, we have not heard what these items are in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia. However, we can conclude that it also suggests that social rights, wages or public sector pensions must be cut. And when we are in these areas, in this round hall in all political parties in Slovenia we should speak about the same language. As for the referendum on pension reform, it was an opportunity, and unfortunately it took off and passed. As far as the structure of budgetary expenditure is concerned, the LDS Club has for some time also pointed out that a large proportion or a large part of the budget is linked to legal conditional rights and expenditure, which means extremely difficult operation mainly in times of crisis. As we see, this flexibility, both in the past and in the future, in an increasingly unpredictable world, could greatly help us to cope with future crises faster and more effectively. The data quoted by the Minister of Finance that 80%, ladies and gentlemen, is 80% of the budget funds, which have already been legally locked up, already distributed in advance with conditional expenditure, is worrying. We are simply running out of space to respond effectively to the crisis. In Slovenia, too, we forget that we live in a dynamic globalised world, and as long as world order is as it is, Slovenia in this world must look for an opportunity to increase the quality of life, always thinking about how we will create more. Some people like to say that we need to move away from gross social product and give more attention to quality of life, but it is forgotten that higher quality of life ensures right or maybe only higher gross social product. Then there is the argument that the gross social product is unevenly distributed. Here. But if we look at European statistics, then we see that Slovenia's income inequality is the least on a broader European scale according to Eurostat's data. In order to change world regulation, Slovenia – I hope we all agree – is certainly a small and under-influenced country. At the end of the parliamentary club, we would also like to draw attention to the changes in both budget balances, where the capital and financial investments to recapitalise state-owned enterprises or banks increase by EUR 250 million. In the Liberal Democracy Club, we want to do it again, and we have repeatedly warned that we are skeptical, detained or even more clearly stated that we oppose the recapitalisation of the largest Slovenian bank by public means. We believe that the time has come for the largest Slovenian bank to seek private capital, which will strengthen the bank capital and hopefully also ensure better management of the bank, which was one of the key problems in the past. We are aware that with the support of the budget rebalancing, we will also make this recapitalisation possible, but we hope or expect that state capital investment managers will find appropriate private investors for recapitalisation. However, in this item, we would also like to point out that we do not oppose the recapitalisation of an air carrier, but we clearly and loudly state that this is their last opportunity to both financial and business restructuring. We need to know that there won't be another chance because there can't be one. This is the last chance to find suitable strategic partners, without which it will not survive in the medium term, if not in the long term. This is the experience of smaller airlines across Europe. Of course, we can also look further at the budget's intestines, where we see the most taken by the Ministry of Transport – 128 million – with most of it falling back on investments in state roads and railway infrastructure. For a long time, we have been pointing out the importance of public transport, especially rail transport, and we appeal to all those responsible to prepare everything for urgent investment as it should be. We also see a reduction in the Ministry of the Economy's resources and more. We are not indifferent to the reduction of rural development funds, but all of this cannot be said in a few minutes. Nevertheless, we are predicting support for the budget's rebalancing, because it is simply and simply necessary. With this, we will give Europe an important signal of what we want, can and want.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u25	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by Mr Willi Rezman.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u26	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, for your word. Nice greeting to all also on behalf of the Group of Unaffiliated Members! The unconnected Members do not exactly show any enthusiasm for the proposal for a rebalancing prepared by the Government and the ruling coalition. On the contrary, we believe that the balance is largely poor and that it draws us away from development and only in the direction of survival. These ambitions to survive are certainly too modest, for this survival, which is now being demonstrated, is a short-term survival. In this regard, in our judgment, it is only an issue of alibiicity, if we recall the opening words and mentioning Lehman Brothers, the difficulties in the bond market and similar problems that we do not directly affect. Let me make an example of what I'm thinking and what I'm aiming for. The fact that Slovenia has no particular impact on the global situation is probably a notorious truth. We are also aware that during the period when this was already clear, we have listened to words from the top of the coalition that we will still win in these global conditions, which are bad. And if we can't influence the global situation to change, we can certainly have a little bit more impact. In the parable I promised, I had the following in mind. Peter Kauzer also had to row in wild waters that he had no influence over, but he did not sink, which threatens us, but he won. These measures, which would draw us from the diving situation, are certainly not visible in this rebalancing. The question is what has been said today too, whether we have any other alternatives and how we will deal with the fact that there are no alternatives, at least not good ones. And because there are no real and good alternatives, the Group of Unaffiliated Members of Parliament will, in all seriousness, vote according to its conscience, provide the majority of support for this poor solution, as we estimate that others can only be worse. It does not appear how the real-time situation in the real-estate sector could change in a short time. It doesn't look like we can recover our construction. Nor do we see how we could hope for different practices in our financial markets, how the banks could change their behaviour and actions in a short time. We even see some affection for the coalition, at least one part, to continue to pour water into the sand, at least when we have in mind the New Ljubljana Bank or Adrio Airways. But this pouring of water into the sand means that the water is going to disappear, and in the past, we've become too accustomed to some of the measures, so the water is going to go to zero. Nor does it appear that, in a political sense, something good would change quickly, in a way that emerges from a crisis that we consider not only to be present but to be an acute political crisis. Even if there are early elections soon, this political crisis will go beyond the limits of the current coalition's mandate. The macroeconomic indicators we read every day and the different scales say nothing about hoping for a positive conversion. We are all more overwhelmed by the feeling that we are used to being defeated and not victorious. That is why there are no very courageous measures, at least not in this rebalancing. And since the Government has decided not to intervene in any way in public debt, at least not in such a way as to increase it, it is clear that any measures to encourage development and employment at this time do not appear anywhere. Therefore, there is only a possibility that we will settle the situation by adopting the balance for a short period of time and prepare for a new social agreement that will allow for different measures, including those in which the Government can act as convincing to its people and will not refer to how the nation does not understand how it is not ready to change, because the Government of our people cannot convince it. Let me ask you a rhetorical question. What must happen when there are no successful measures to improve the situation, and when even those adopted in Parliament do not find support among people to implement? Of course, rhetorical questions are not answered. We in the parliamentary group, as I said, will overwhelmingly support this proposal for a rebalancing, and in doing so we estimate that we have to say a few critical words, because it is not just numbers, but it is about what is behind these numbers, about the backgrounds, about the events that have caused these figures, which the Ministry of Finance has actually simply summed up as some fiscal picture of negative trends in real life. The government cancelled when it was preparing the budget. The budget was prepared in such a way that it could not be implemented. Perhaps, however, because he was very optimistic, he influenced that we were not careful enough to implement the budget poorly. Therefore, we have not been successful in assessing revenue, and thank God that we have also made a mistake in assessing those revenues arising from the corporate income tax, because otherwise the picture would be even worse. We have not demonstrated the ability to monitor the implementation of the programmes and the budget, and because we have not demonstrated these abilities, we have not shown the ability to act in a timely manner. That is why we lack a variety of regulatory changes, in the field of legislation. We lack those changes to prevent the automatic increase in current consumption in Slovenia. We lack measures to increase the implementation capacity for projects, many of which are good, but for which we have not created circumstances so that they can be realized. I cannot think of anything particularly good when I think about what we have done to improve the business environment, to improve efficiency, productivity and to increase added value in our economic sphere. Finally, we can conclude that we have actually shown great inability to implement environmentally acceptable and development projects. This has also proved to be through the inability of the government to realize its own conclusions. When you cannot make your own decisions calmly and gradually, various intervention measures are offered. The ambitions of reducing overburdens with the public sector were also beyond us. Some of the smaller ones I'm not going to mention all of, no. Now, with the rebalancing and its presentations, it is somehow comforting to compare numbers from the rebalancing to those from the past, which shows a slightly less negative picture than what we have set ourselves as a development budget. And these differences are very important. These differences are sensitive. Unfortunately, it has happened to us that even if we were able to realise the revenues we planned, we would not be able to realize the consumption of these revenues. We are not prepared to invest in development projects if we have more at our disposal. We are even reducing our ambitions to implement development projects. This is clear from the fact that some are trying to comfort us that it is not so bad if we have 200 million less realised European funds, because we do not have ready-made projects to implement them. This is a very poor comfort to which we find it difficult to agree in the Group of Non-Aligned Members. However, we are not able, say, to meet some of the requirements that we have also heard from these Members of Parliament that we should build, for example, homes for the elderly to build student homes, student homes to build non-profit apartments with public funds, i.e. for renting relationships and not for offering them on a hypertrophyd market, and that these apartments, built with public funds, will be unsuccessfully waiting for customers. We are not able to implement those projects that say that we will move faster to a higher technological level and that we will, however, undertake projects that speak about the need to increase resources for efficient use of energy and renewable energy. We do the opposite. Effective use of energy and renewable energy in this rebalancing had to bow to fossil ambitions, ahead of the ambitions of the fossil option, in a strange way, by borrowing funds in Europe and returning them to Europe through the import of their technologies, their knowledge and so on, of our own, which we also have, we do not favour. All these weaknesses, and many more of them, must be borne in mind, because now that the proposal for a rebalancing is being put in place, there are also starting points for the budget for the period 2012-2013. And what I understand as the philosophy of these two budgets is saving, reducing domestic consumption, reducing demand and, consequently, all that follows, and which will also have negative consequences for preserving the social state. This, the preservation of the social state, is still the best thing in this rebalancing. However, we would like to draw attention to the increasing opening of scissors between social expenditure and development expenditure. And when they are open to a threshold, it will not be possible to financially condition the social network. Let me conclude with the opening statement that we are dissatisfied with the rebalance, that the probably non-acceptance of the rebalancing would be even worse than adoption, and that, therefore, we will all reserve the right to vote each other at our discretion, but we will ensure the majority support of this balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u27	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. We are moving on to a debate on the individual parts of the proposal for a state budget rebalancing. As individual parts, we will consider the general part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal, the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal and the development programme plan. Does anyone want to discuss the general part of the budget's proposal for a rebalancing? I see it's an interest. Anyone who wants to sign up for a debate, please. Renata Brunskole, you have the floor, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u28	Thank you very much. Well-welcome, distinguished President-in-Office of the Government, Madam Minister-in-Office, Ministers, all present, colleagues and colleagues! I'll support the budget itself. Certainly it was not easy to get to Slovenia's independence, to independence. I am convinced that, at a given time, there is no one here who would like to in any way interfere with the life of the Republic of Slovenia, but, above all, in any financial way, to weaken the expressed trust of both citizens and citizens, as well as on the other side of the European Union. We certainly want to remain and maintain our position between the countries of the European Union, i.e. between countries with the euro. Therefore, at the moment, the budget balance and the adoption of the budget for the Republic of Slovenia is of paramount importance. We need to make it possible to continue the recovery of the economy, because we do not want any further deterioration of the economic and social situation of Slovenia and the Slovenians in the coming years, especially since the crisis, as has been highlighted many times in recent years, has certainly not bypassed the Republic of Slovenia. It is a fact, and it would be a shame if we did not tell ourselves that the fall of pension reform has certainly brought its own. It has also brought about the fact that a necessary and immediate budgetary rebalancing measure is necessary. That is why we have been forced into this measure in the context of economic policy, although perhaps some of our colleagues are not satisfied when we say so. We are certainly something special in Slovenia in the sense that we are following the exit strategy, because we are only reducing the deficit in the budget by reducing expenditure. So it's not about increasing taxes, it's a fact. In Slovenia, as the President of the Government said in his speech earlier, we did not sacrifice or in any way touch any class of people who would in any way cause them additional problems, inconvenience or increase their taxes. We were aware of the situation in the Republic of Slovenia, and although we have a high unemployment rate, we are experiencing economic growth at a given time, although low, but despite all the growth. The fact is, we did not say that in 2005, as someone had said before, but I have said that several times myself, during the period of fat cows, but 1.8% of economic growth is projected for this year as well. As a representative of the local communities, I cannot look forward to saving at the expense of the transport items. We cannot especially look forward to those who live on the outskirts of Slovenia in the threatened area of the White Land and of Pokolpe, as the transport infrastructure and maintenance of state roads with this rebalancing will be largely halted. The construction of development axes throughout the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia, which is of paramount importance for the greater development of the economy, as this would attract more potential investors, has been slightly halted in this way. In the area of health, we also want to provide the necessary resources for quality health care, including hospital care in individual areas of the Republic of Slovenia. I am also aware of the urgent need for investments at Novo Mesto General Hospital, which has been particularly exposed to the media in recent days. The area of South-East Slovenia also urgently needs such investments. The area of culture as well; ensuring primary library activities is certainly of paramount importance. Today, however, we are talking about the balance of the budget, which some of the projects or resources listed above, including the defence and others, will have to be suspended for a few years. I have spoken several times in the last week, and one of the opposition's fellow Members said: if you are adopting laws, it would be right to provide the necessary funds. I don't mind him if he didn't think at the time that he himself had agreed in the previous term to some laws that were a burden on the state budget, even in this mandate of the National Assembly and the Government, such as a free kindergarten for another child. However, the problem is that the funds for all these measures have not been provided. We talk a lot about long-term planning. Long-term planning also means that it is possible to try – sometimes we called it, I remember it as a child, and certainly all of you, NNNP, should not surprise us. There may have been little prediction in terms of what happened in Europe – a crisis period. This period did not foresee this NNNP to the extent that it would be easier for us now. Today, however, it is the fact that the budget balance is the one we need to adopt so that public finances can be carried forward, that the institutions we urgently need continue to operate, and therefore that we do not in any way stop citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia from all the things they are entitled to. The pension reform has not been adopted. I'm sure she wouldn't hurt our pensioners in any way. It would hurt more those of us younger generations who are aware of it. I remember that at the time of our studies, teachers in colleges, economics studies and so on told us when the fact is that you will have to take care of your pensions yourself, with your pension pillars and so on. We were told that at the time, and now I have more than 20 years of work alone. I remember that one back. They were determined by a few demagogic statements to deceive people so that they would be without pensions. That wasn't right. But now, with the balance of the budget, we want to ease all of these things that have not been adopted in some way. Our pensioners will have the same pensions as they do now, and I think that's of the utmost importance. It is true, however, that in Slovenia we also face certain other problems, problems of lack of doctors. It was imperative that this government take measures to import doctors from abroad. There is also an increase in the number of social workers, mainly in social work centres and in nursing homes. I spoke earlier about pensioners, and the fact is that the population in Slovenia is old. We are trying, the number of pensioners is increasing and the need for long-term care and other public services related to population ageing is increasing. In these areas, savings will not be possible and would not be right. This government and the Group of Social Democrats maintain social sensitivity and do not agree to a reduction in the social state. The existing intervention laws partially freeze legal obligations, which means approximately €660 million in austerity measures. With regard to the movement of unemployment, it is right, although the unemployment rate is high, to stress that not everything is really black in the labour market, although it is said that way. According to statistics, 115 thousand 608 were unemployed in February 2011. Statistics for August 2011 indicate that 106 000 996 people are unemployed. So more than 8,000 people were less unemployed in August than in February of this year. In the balance sheet of the budget, an additional EUR 118 million is still needed despite the reduction of the unemployed. Let me say that EUR 30 million is intended for self-employment, to promote employment, i.e. for an active employment policy. Social inclusion funds and social entrepreneurship are further increasing. On the basis of economic forecasts, as I mentioned earlier, economic growth, taking into account all the above-mentioned austerity measures, will be 1.8% of the 2011 budget balance. It is not easy to overcome times of crisis, but I think we are on the right track no matter what. There have also been several discussions in recent days on the drawing up of European funds, both at a meeting of the Finance Committee and at a meeting of the Local Self-Government Committee. The fact is that, according to the Ministry of Finance, it was presented by the Directorate for Budget in the table for the period 2005 to 2011, it is not true that we have not been successful this year, and it is not true that we have not been successful in the last three years. Between January and July 2011, we absorbed €440.7 million in European funds. And the fact is, since we have had the opportunity to draw on the European Union's resources, i.e. grants, as we often say, we have never been as successful as we were in 2011. It is true that local communities, municipalities, large European projects and other state projects, which are largely financed by European funds, certainly contribute to this success. But we can't say that we couldn't be any better. It is also true that there will be no suspension of any investment by municipalities, i.e. local communities in which European funds have already been provided, already signed contracts, and there will be no stopping the use of State resources under the Community Financing Act. Nor in this direction will we depriv local communities, nor will we stop the necessary investments. I have already said many times myself that it is imperative to make it possible to draw on European funds and to make investments in local communities possible. In this way, the economy, construction companies and the industry have jobs, and in this way people have jobs, and in this way, although slowly and in drops, they also drop funds into the state budget, including taxes. But there's another fact. There are also several talks about early elections. This is likely to be discussed today and even tomorrow. Even what will happen if there is a new government. I am convinced that no government at any given time has a magic wand or a wand to swing and suddenly come back in the year 2005 to a period of fat cows. If someone just thought of it, I'm afraid someone from Europe would burn us and say, "Don't talk about the period of fat, crazy cows." Because that wouldn't be true. The fact is that certain proposals and opinions based on tax cuts, increases in expenditure and so on, by some colleagues, including the opposition, are not exactly based on solid foundations. And I would be very happy if we had the opportunity to hear some more concrete alternative proposals today or tomorrow. Especially in such a way that it is not obvious, but that we might also hear this: "Look, in 2005, 2006 and 2007 we saved here and here, but here and here we have some reserves, and you may not have noticed that they are, so now in this period we will quickly take big steps again to economic growth." I'd like to hear these measures. I'm sure it's not easy, and I'm sure that even if there's an early election, i.e. a possible mistrust, it's not going to lead to something that's going to be difficult to deliver within a few months and a year. It is also a fact that some of the European Union's high-ranking politicians may have pointed out or burned a little to our opposition colleagues about decisions, including certain counter-promotions against certain referendums, as well as pension reform. It is likely that some of Europe's high politicians have burned opposition colleagues. I have a feeling that certain media reports, both Slovenian and foreign, have also indicated in this direction. [[advertising from the hall]] Excuse me, Comrade Mag. Vizjak, I didn't say anything against you, so I'm sorry, don't scream. I'm sure you felt a hint in that direction, and I'm sorry, fellow opposition officers, if my last sentences have upset you. I didn't personally point to any of you. But I'm just from the debate. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u29	Allow Mrs. Brunskole to finish the discussion, please. You'll get your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u30	and from the publications of some European media, it has been felt that it has somehow been pointed out that pension reform should be adopted in Slovenia, and perhaps elsewhere in Europe, even before the time of the mandate of this State Assembly, including these governments. [[...]] Maybe it wasn't the right time, maybe it was a political decision, maybe there wasn't a political consensus at the time. Therefore, respectable and dear colleagues and colleagues, do not be alarmed. I am sure that the adoption of the budget rebalancing will also be dominated by a wise decision, a smart, good decision, and we will take the rebalancing for the benefit of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia, to work for the well-being of people who are really upset today. It is wrong not to accept the balance, because we must ensure the continuity of the functioning of public finances, public institutions and the countries themselves. Twenty years of independence has in some ways shown that we can be independent and act well. Any political friction today is not the right decision, it is not a wise decision, and we must not afford it. The time will certainly come for the elections, which will allow citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia to decide again what was right during the period of this government, what was perhaps not the wisest, even during the period of the previous government or during the period of previous governments, not to ensure. I remember my grandmother saying, "It's always good to have a few pawns, some supplies for tough times." I'm afraid there wasn't enough supplies at the time or there wasn't. So let's not get upset. We're on our way together and let's take her to the elections, not necessarily early, together and blue. First of all, let us not waste time in the country, because we are also kind of embarrassed in front of the European Union. At least it is personal for me to be sure when we read an opinion in what comment, which suggests that pension reform should have been adopted long ago, as well as something else. That's why I'm going to support the rebalancing. I am convinced that during difficult times it is still important that the Government thinks of the weakest people to help those who are most in need at a given time. I am convinced that the Government of Social Democrats, Liberal Democracy and other obedience to people who need help, and that we also want to preserve the social state with this balance in particular. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Mr. Zerjav, did you want to replicate? Here you go. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u32	I'll take advantage of it. Let's be specific about our performances. When you talk about the opposition – we have fought for this pension reform and not here in general after the opposition spit just like that and after a long time. We fought for pension reform, and it was not easy from the opposition. It wasn't easy. It was also a risk. But we knew that this must be done, and we will have to do so. Please be correct and speak the truth. There are three different parties in the opposition at this time, each on their own agenda and each with their own logic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u33	Thank you very much. Mr Bogdan Barovich has the floor. [[advertising from the hall]] There's no replica to the replica. Bogdan Barovich, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u34	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues! It's true that we can call it a rebalancing of what we're talking about today. However, I certainly cannot agree with my colleagues in the Slovenian National Party that the reason for this rebalancing is to try to reduce the public deficit or to help the Slovenes and Slovenes. Purely simple mathematics and basic knowledge of the economy tells you that this would be true if we had less expenditure on the same income, or vice versa, if we had more income for the same expenditure. And then there's the difference and the help, but not here. And I don't think you have to fool around with words like that. I'll say most of what I'm about to say with questions. Why is the biggest loss on the revenue side of European funds? 60% of the loss on the revenue side is from European funds. I can't find the answer to that. Why is the investment content most affected on the expenditure side, which is absolutely and completely illogical and is plagued by the claim of the authors of this balance that they want to help the Slovenes and Slovenes with it and to care for a minor public deficit? It's a purely illogical thing to lose the most direct investment. Why is the most money taken from the Ministry of Transport, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Agriculture, the service of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia? Do you know which ministries these are? These are the only ministries that are multiplying the number of employees and multiplying the product created, because in these areas it is employed, mainly by construction, which has a half-life in this year and is already at 20,000 workers. Why do we take up an army that we created with great desire and love and desire for our national security? We're taking health care. Every euro seized by health means a backlog in the development of health care. Half a year behind in the development of health care means two years behind in development. Why don't we also say that all the money goes and that all the money goes to service the public debt, and what's the worst, to pay for the European Union's budget and to help the European Union? If we have, colleagues and colleagues, 60% less revenue from European funds, then we have 60% less inflow into the European Union, and it will be fair and fair. If we have 20 hours of debate today - God knows how many hours we have had after work bodies - for 365 million, as much as the revenue and expenditure side decreases, why do we have no discussion, and why do we peacefully bear that 380 million direct Slovenian money goes to Greece? Why don't we say today, when we fight for this money, for this 364 million that the Government, by emergency procedure, wanted to enact a law amending the Republic of Slovenia's Guarantee Act to ensure financial stability in the euro area, which would increase Slovenia's guarantee from 2 billion to 700 million, i.e. Slovenia's commitment, to 3 billion 700 million? It's probably not worth talking about, is it?Oh, my God! It's hurting this country, and it's very damaging, and no one hopes or refuses to say it! Today, the new Ljubljana Bank has found that it has a hole of almost half a billion, not 250 million. So if anyone else talks about recapitalisation, don't talk about 250 million. Why, then, such a dispute, so why such deluges? Simply, less flows from Europe and less flows from Slovenia to Europe. A simple calculation: if we don't have a home, we can't give it to anyone else. Finally, the poverty of the Slovenian people will not help Europe. The impoverishment of the Slovenian people will also severely impoverish Europe. For these simple reasons, I announce that I will be absolutely against this balance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u35	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Vizjak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u36	Your Honor, hello! Unfortunately, there are significantly fewer representatives on the part of the Government than at the beginning. No prime minister, no finance minister. There is not even a Member of Mrs Brunskola, who I am referring to some of the introductory words, because some misleading statements need to be denied immediately, or they will fade away or even become the truth. Firstly, she warned that, on their last visits, the leaders of the opposition parties had been punished by their appearance or attitude towards pension reform. I'd really like to see any evidence or record it at all. This is the fruit of the delegation's imagination and it is unacceptable that it is expressed in Parliament. In particular, it points to its lack of knowledge of relations between statesmen and the opposition. That's the first thing, and I would really ask her to serve with any evidence of it. Secondly, she was deceiving and citing the wrong things if the current government did not impose an additional tax burden on citizens. Yes, it is. It introduced a simple tax otherwise called a different tax. This is a compensation for the construction that now burdens every citizen who wishes to build a walled land in this country for the first time. And the amount of this tax can be up to EUR 25 per square meter. This has made good progress in the development of both people and the economy. This is a concrete new tax that you invented in this government, not to say that you did not introduce them. Although it can be called, as I say, a compensation for building up, it can also be a dedicated money for something else, but it burdens the pocket of every investor in this country. And then you're wondering if we're falling on the competitiveness scales, because we're getting more and more expensive for any development project. And the third deception of Mrs Brunskola is that the fall of the pension reform has resulted in this rebalance and 101 million additional funds for the transfer to the pension fund. No, no, no. The existence and story of the pension reform have caused this. The panicful retirement of many, who watched what was promised to him in the new circumstances, caused this, not the fall of reform. You yourself in this House have said that the adoption of the pension reform has no mention of the valuable public financial implications for 2011. You yourself have stressed this and this is evidence of your charter. And don't say that this doesn't have 101 million negative consequences – it does. These inconceivable messages of the campaign, which you went through in connection with the pension reform and caused a lot of people who could still work today to retire because they met certain conditions for this. So, your honor, when you talk about these things, you need to be correct and not be misled by the public. Now to the point – to this rebalancing. The 2011 budget balance, as well as the majority of the budgets and the adjusted budgets of this government, is the continuation of the wrong path of public finance policy. I'm also going to demonstrate this with numbers. In fact, the result is also a lack of or an unimaginable economic policy. The economic crisis marked practically the entire mandate of this government and we faced it in mid-2008, when the previous government had also taken certain measures and sent them to Parliament. These measures were only partially summarised by the current government and reflected a first step towards the crisis and, in fact, a step against the economy. In times of crisis, the economy needs a particularly responsible economic policy, in fact an anti-crisis-oriented economic policy to enable economic operators to operate, to address the biggest problems the economy has, and to help those who generate money in this country for public sector spending. Not only the opposition, but all economic associations and not least the international scales show that the government has been slow and unsuccessful in dealing with the economic crisis, and the consequences are here. The consequences are that we have begun to lagging behind developmentally all comparable countries, which have also faced the crisis and are also open economies. We can especially talk about Baltic countries, Slovakia, the Czech Republic and so on. Here the government was completely trapped in some ridiculous solutions that ultimately caused more bureaucracy and more problems in the economy than the solution. Just look at the problem of resolution of the credit crunch, which is still present today, two years after the crisis. Even today, small and medium-sized enterprises cannot reach financial resources, credits for development projects, for current business, for whatever. I'm talking about companies that are healthy. Money simply revolves around failed investments by banks, both in tycoon stories, although to a lesser extent, as well as in the construction sector, which has landed where it is due to extremely poor management. Instead of making the work of a healthy economy a place for further development, we have made it with various guarantee schemes and similar that there was an impression that we had solved something, but in fact companies are dealing with and dealing with the same problems. The bankruptcys are here and the type of unemployed is longer. By the way, it has also been suggested that this government is successfully coping with unemployment, that it is not growing so much in the last year, and that it is almost something positive. Then why, gentlemen, do you increase passive transfers to the unemployed in this balance of about 120 million? From a good 200 million to about 320 million. What, then, is the need to increase these funds for more than a third if the pressure of these unemployed people on public finances and the budget is not exceptional? Therefore, the economic performance is poor. The government's inefficiency in economic action is also demonstrated through the following clear indicators measured by statistics. We have modest growth in gross domestic product mainly in export work, and the worst results are achieved at home when we talk about domestic demand, and not least in certain sectors of the economy such as construction. So if we were to reject exports, Slovenia would be in a deep recession, deep down. In our home field, in the field of tasks that we can do at home for economic operators, we have completely failed. Once again, it is bad that you have heard, respected in the coalition and also in the government, mainly all the opposition's proposals that have gone in the direction of promoting economic activity and creating new jobs. About that a little bit later. What were the suggestions? I will take them again because Mrs Brunskole has apparently forgotten, but in this House we have talked about them at least three times, if not four times, in extraordinary sessions when we have discussed them. Why do I say that this balance is a continuation of a destructive policy in the area of consolidation or public finances in general? Because the structural imbalances of the budget continue when we look at between revenue and expenditure, because we have a deficit of as much as a billion 700 million. If I say very harshly, we have a good 8 billion revenue at 10 billion, which means we have a deficit of more than 20% of our revenue. It is said that the loss of the state budget is more than 20% if we are talking about the revenue of the state budget. It's an alarm, Your Honor, but you're not aware of it. Obviously not, because you've been going about this way for quite some time. And how do you deal with it? This is what you are dealing with now in the balance, instead of interfering with the country's current expenditure, cutting off investments. And look at the numbers we have today in this rebalancing. The country will have deficits and, as a result, will be in debt for a billion 700 million. However, if you count all investment expenditure and transfers and the funds paid to the European Union, i.e. all investments, all that we pay to the European Union – this is for a bad billion and a half – it is clear that we have more deficits than all these investments and assets in the European Union. We are therefore already in charge of the state's running expenditure. Do you know what that means? This means that the family has begun to be indebted when I compare the country with the family, for food, for electricity, for what it consumes every year. Where's it going, sir? It's going bankrupt! There is no other way, unfortunately, because we owe ourselves to what we spend every year without investing anything or paying anyone out of the country when we talk about the EU. The first axiom of the economy is that it must not happen that the current consumption of the country, current expenditure and current transfers together are higher than all the revenues of the country. For me, Your Honor, it's an alarm. This has happened for the first time in this country, and it is more than obvious that the result of the accumulated problems is to face problems during this period. The Commission has addressed this problem for the supervision of public finances. Today, too, it has not been mentioned in the words, except that as President he himself would have received a word at the presentation of the balance. It would be fitting, however, because this is the Parliamentary Commission for Public Finance Supervision and today we are talking about the 2011 budget rebalancing. The Commission did not support this rebalancing because it found that it maintained these structural imbalances and proposed that the Government prepare a concrete short- and medium-term programme to address these structural imbalances, correct the deficits in a way that manages and reduces current expenditure and increases investment. Why investments? Respected, not only because we will build better transport infrastructure, energy infrastructure, information infrastructure, environmental infrastructure in this country, for example, but also because it is an important measure to revive the economy, especially construction and a whole range of economic sectors linked to construction. The government spent several hours in various sessions and discussed measures to encourage economic activity in order to do so with such and other bureaucratic activities. Encourage investment! This is the most effective measure to activate the construction sector and a whole set of other sectors involved and, last but not least, to create new jobs. And one more thing. Such a machete attitude towards construction in this country will cause us to soon have no more strong construction company that will be able to do the extraordinary projects we have in Slovenia. So what do we do?Oh, my God! In this country, we have some European resources to draw on, and we have some plans for important infrastructure. Who's gonna build it?Oh, my God! Who's gonna collect that money?Oh, my God! Would it not be right for Slovenian construction companies to do so? Unfortunately, things are going in a direction that makes it possible for the virtually all major construction sector to fail. And if you don't make a breakthrough on investments, you won't make use of European funds and you'll put the rest of the construction in the ground. Is it not enough that some have already failed and that this will continue? Another area. The rebalancing itself is, in my opinion, a more or less optical performance for the foreign public. If I am not mistaken, the Government has already adopted conclusions at its meeting in July that have completely halted the implementation of the budget. I'm talking about taking on new responsibilities. It is said that since then, as far as I know, there has been no chosen contractor on any invitation to tender anymore, no new contract, nothing. Ever since the middle of this year. It's paid back, it's paid by contracts, which it already is, and it's not everywhere. We have data that municipalities have to pay contract obligations to contractors, but when they want a refund from the State, they don't get it. And where's the 30 days and everything? In short, you've stopped everything in this investment work anyway. And you want to get through the thirst parliament just a message that you will send to the foreign public when in Slovenia there is a political will to manage public finances in the way you imagined. You'll rarely convince anyone with that. I don't think so many people. The frozen commitment has therefore already achieved its purpose and has already stopped the investment. And with this rebalancing, you just want to bless them in Parliament. Not only are you reducing investments by 400 million — if we are looking at investment expenditure and investment transfers, it is less than 400 million. By the way, when I made a comparison with 2009, which you like to do very much with realisation, this is now 200 million less after the proposed rebalancing than was realized in 2009. In terms of these two common items – investment expenditure and investment transfers. So not only are you reducing, you are also reducing, say, the Ministry of Economy, by 20%, by 63 million euros. Interesting. You are reducing funds for renewable energy, subsidies for those who wish to behave more efficiently through measures. You're downgrading rural programs and you could still list them. So all that is meant for more or less the economy and people who are aware of the challenges, that the differences between rural and urban areas need to be reduced, that there is something to be done, that, after all, there is a need to create better living and working conditions for rural economic activity, so that energy must be used more efficiently. In fact, you went radically into cuts on the expenditure side, wherever possible and wherever it was not necessary to seriously cut into the acquired rights. You're talking about social cohesion here today. Social cohesion is also a social dialogue that has been on the dog in this government for quite some time. An illustration of the absence of social dialogue was the pension reform, when you didn't even know how to talk to those on the side of the unions, by the workers who protested the most here. Respectable social cohesion is not that you defend certain rights at all costs, even though they are unjustifiable. I am surprised that today I have heard from the coalition – because the coalition is becoming increasingly critical – also that it is unacceptable that those who do not need various social transfers and transfers for the unemployed continue to receive this, and that sometimes even some workers cannot be hired, which is true everywhere. And reading these items, these rights are not social cohesion. To defend this is to defend the injustices that are taking place and continue to take place during the crisis when these reserves should be found. Don't mention the previous term to me again, because you're going to want to do it. At that time, there were 60,000 or fewer unemployed, and today there are over 100,000 of them. This is a big difference, where someone knows where, despite the fact that they can regulate their lives and their situation with work and bright on social transfers. This is not social cohesion, these are the injustices that people are suffering, and they are also increasingly articulate in discussions with us, and with you probably. The best social policy is, according to your Prime Minister, a policy to create new jobs, a successful economic policy. In fact, if our economy breathes, it will pay taxes and you will also have money in the budget for various things, education, health care and so on. You won't need social transfers, people will spend more easily because they will have income and will pay taxes. The fourth thing I want to talk about is the matter of recapitalisation and the 250 million in balance sheet B that the Secretary of State didn't want to talk about on the committee. She didn't want to tell us exactly what projects it was. She said that it was companies and an increase in the country's capital share. Since we have only three good months ahead of us, the big question is whether this is true. I think today those responsible at the Ministry know exactly which companies this is meant for. It would be good to talk about it, because you wouldn't even know the number. I am also afraid that this money is intended for the recapitalisation of the New Ljubljana Bank, despite the fact that there is no consensus in the coalition, let alone on the relationship between the coalition and the opposition. But it's a huge amount of money related to the taxpayer's money. Your Honor! The national budget of the Republic of Slovenia is about like one liberalised company, where general services are being strengthened, a company in which the salaries for various cousins and acquaintances within the company’s administration and general part are being strengthened, and the production part or part that creates in the company is increasingly limping. So this firm is in charge. In fact, it is in charge of more than investing in development. Where does that lead? The simple answer is: bankruptcy. Companies are going bankrupt. For such companies, which are indebted and unable to manage expenditure in this general work, do not expect anything good. Slovenia would probably be in a very similar situation to Greece if this government did not expect a public debt of around 22.5% of GDP in 2008. The area of debt was and is still open. In these three years and by the end of 2011, you have managed to increase this public debt to 45% of GDP. That's, I'd say, a nice achievement. I hope that the finance minister will also wish for a prize in the international community, because in order to double public debt in such a short time, you must also have little talent. It has also been heard that the opposition has not proposed anything; it has not been constructive that something is being dictated all the time, and we are sinking, and we do not find any consensus. Immediately after the crisis, the coalition proposed to the current government a partnership for development. It was called Partnership 2 + 10, the Partnership for Crisis and the Partnership for Reforms needed in this country. We offered the Prime Minister the text of the cooperation agreement. The text has never been specifically answered. The partnership was rejected. Respected rulings, with opposition to solving the accumulated short- and long-term problems and challenges of this country, you did not want to participate, even though you knew, and we all knew that the country was in crisis, that times were not envious and that we needed to step together. The partnership was rejected. Okay, you didn't want to cooperate. You must have been led by some more ideological reasons. Although we had previously worked well with the Social Democrats in all areas in the 2004-2008 mandate, we had a formal partnership. Personally, as the then Minister of Economy, I have worked with a number of experts, as well as SD politicians, and I hope that, through Parliament, before the government, we have developed the best possible solutions. Then we proposed one package of measures and another package of measures and a third package of measures. We have proposed a series of measures to Parliament, to the Government and even called for them to be properly and specifically defined. More or less, the measures have been rejected very, very flat-rate. They said they brought in many additional financial obligations, for which there was no money. Do you feel the same way about the government today? No, you're not thinking the same thing. Why not? Your candidate for economic minister presented to the Committee on the Economy, when presenting his programme, that he advocated the introduction of tax incentives for investments. You had this proposal on the table in 2008 and it was accepted by the previous government. The secretary of state is gimmicking with his head, but the current candidate for minister said so on the committee. Unless everyone speaks exactly as he pleases, thinks, and thus deceives Members, because this will not happen anyway. You probably also confirmed Mr Oresic as a suitable coalition member on the basis of what he said there. And one of the important things he said was that he advocates tax reliefs for investments, i.e. a tax reduction for those economic operators who will reinvest in profits, either domestically or otherwise. We have not only proposed this in 2008 – and the Government has even adopted this proposal and sent it to Parliament, and then the coalition, which then took power, has not confirmed it – but we have already proposed a series of measures. And you obviously are parliamentarians now of a different opinion that this is a good measure. I am convinced that the signal to the economy, when it was still in the middle of the investment cycle, that the reinvestment of profits is being paid or that the tax is not being paid, would have a significant impact on the investment cycle in that country, as we have witnessed later. Perhaps, staticly speaking, for what fiscal year this would mean a fall in a certain tide, but surely in the coming years it would have resulted in more economic activity. You just didn't want to believe it. Secondly, here today you have mainly found that we have not achieved economic objectives, as one of the key arguments for this balance is also to correct revenue and then to tighten the expenditure on these revenues due to the decline in economic growth. Your Honor, write down your responsibility for this. Who's responsible for this?Oh, my God! Opposition?Oh, my God! Have you not taken responsibility for the state of the country by taking over power and coalition?Oh, my God! Today we hear from both coalition parties that we are grumbling and grumbling that what we have is bad, but that there is no other way and that we must accept it. That's not true! That's not true! You have imported this country and our economy to this point where we are. And there's another way. There's a third way. Stand down as soon as possible! Leave this country to the people to elect another government, a better government, with full powers that will be able to make a move and not be burdened with all affairs and with as little support as you have. Because whatever you do today or tomorrow, it can be found either at the referendum or anywhere. Haven't you learned that yet?Oh, my God! You prolong this stomping on the spot, or better said walk back just because of some stubbornness and belief that you are the best, which is only in your heads and nowhere else. As a result, the Slovenian Democratic Party proposed a programme of measures in the economic and financial field, which it sent to the public debate months ago. We don't just want to find out what's wrong with you in this country, but we want to offer solutions. People today expect solutions, they don't just expect you to work here and deal with yourself. The biggest theme of this fall was who will be ministers, not what these ministers will do and what the government will do for the citizens! We also propose constitutional changes in the Slovenian Democratic Party. We propose that we limit the use of the wider sector of the country, so that we bind consumption to what has been created, so that we do not spend as much as we do now. We propose that technological development, entrepreneurship among young people and the transfer of innovation into practice be given greater constitutional emphasis. We are also proposing a series of economic measures to accelerate economic activity. We propose a first set of measures relating to the tax, administrative and regulatory burden on the economy, the promotion of investment, the promotion of the establishment of new companies, tax breaks, the reduction of corporate income tax and the introduction of tax reliefs. We propose the continuation of the programme to remove administrative barriers, reduce the diversity of permits and complications in the various processes carried out by the economy. It's almost impossible to get a building permit today. Anyone who has 5 minutes of time, every bureaucrat, stumbles by every investor. As I have already mentioned, you have also introduced a tax on the first building of land, some of which have been defined as building blocks for decades. With this you have added burden to all parcels in economic zones that have not yet been built and have, of course, been created on agricultural land, where else. We also propose to reduce the number of authorisations required to carry out the activity. This was initiated in the previous term. We've come a long way and we still have to move on. In the second set of measures, we propose the rehabilitation of the financial system, that banks finance and service the economy and people, not the other way around. Today, taxpayers, we save banks instead of service us and the economy. It's a series of measures. One of these, in particular, is the poor bank's project, which would clear the balance sheets of the two largest Slovenian banks, which are still heavily owned by the state, actually burdened them with this and thus enable them to work more effectively on the segment for which they are intended. A third important set of measures is the need to encourage investment in infrastructure. I mentioned traffic before, both rail and road. Investments in energy infrastructure, information infrastructure and environmental infrastructure should be encouraged. You'll say again, "Yes, how about investments, but if there's no budget money for them?" Many of these investments do not require budgetary money and are either the subject of companies or of European funds or private capital. I know a few investments in this country that have been standing for years and years, but not just because the government on this or that branch has not given way or put obstacles to such an investment being made. I'll bring them up to speed. Construction of a chain of hydroelectric power plants on the Lower Sava – the accumulation pool at the Krško hydroelectric power plant is one year late because the Minister for Environment and Space was unable to decide how to proceed with this investment. It is late to obtain documentation or the State Spatial Plan for Brežice and Mokrice hydropower plants, although we all know that the energy part is financed from energy companies and infrastructure parts from dedicated funds. The second important is the landfill of low and medium radioactive waste. Three years ago, a state spatial plan was adopted. So the hardest step has been taken — a step towards finding a location for an unpopular object such as a landfill of nuclear waste. To date, no mention has been made of the value of this investment, although the money has been provided, and we find that money from the decommissioning fund, something that is not part of the budget, is financed by a variety of tycoons. We found that the CEO's principal bought Del's bonds to buy DZS bonds. Instead of investing this money in real economic projects, we are dealing with which investment, more or less unsuspectingly, this money will be put into the fund. A number of projects are in the field of public-private partnership, which can be obtained but do not escape – financed from private resources. And they don't run because they're stalling on decisions. Here I have a case – the minister is now leaving – a new home for the elderly in Brežice, financed by a private person, a hundred percent as a partner. But this investment doesn't happen, even though the papers on the table have been on the table for quite some time. Not to mention European funds and so on. Such projects, which could be launched, are nothing in Slovenia, but they do not run because they are deliberately blocking these investments. I ask you: for what purpose? Is it really bad for this country? I can hardly believe that such a situation is a result of incompetence or some kind of pishmeuchish relationship. So, the investments are those that will prove your commitment to social cohesion. From investment, people will have a job, money and a better life, not social transfers, which will always be too small because they are very unselective and often unfair. And the fourth thing we propose and there is also a series of measures on this subject is saving the country on current expenditure. Part of this saving can already be achieved by increasing investments. If there are more investments, there will be more employees and fewer transfers to various cash registers and also to the unemployed and to the social. I ask you: was the crisis facing the establishment of 10 new agencies, strengthening different offices and others? This is for me the wasteful behaviour of the state, the irrational behaviour of the country that led to where we are. And in three years, respectable, we could be aware of these trends, that we are already sufficiently liberal in this country, that we must first make systemic cuts by reducing resources and, consequently, by reducing certain functions that the State Administration is still working on, and consequently with the number of employees and current expenditure in this area. I'll tell you one case. I am truly sorry that Mr Svetlik has gone because he is referring specifically to his department and he could answer me if I am wrong. Look at an example I know well, even because I used to work in such jobs. An example of the deletion of the Chamber of Security Engineers and the transfer of these professional tasks – this is a specific area of safety and health at work – to the Ministry. The Ministry wants to do this instead of a chamber of security engineers. You've deleted the chamber. So, it's gone, there's no legal basis in the Law on Safety and Health at Work. The tasks of the chamber, the professional tasks, the professional exams, that, that, that, that, second, third, what they have done, are now taken over by the board. Instead of delegating professional tasks to professional institutions, which, of course, would also supervise and support them, the State Administration will delete them and carry out its tasks. This is one sample that's very illustrative and it's talking about how you're going in some direction that's wrong. Instead of working as a thin state administration, which would also have the professional support of the interested professional public, you systematically destroy and take over these tasks for bureaucrats. And that's just because certain people who've been paddling and dressing there for decades don't understand. I know, Madam Secretary of State, it's disgusting to listen to this, but that's how I see it. I'm not going to support this balance alone because I don't want to support this bad path. It does not even appear that within three years of your responsibility, you would have prepared systemic bases to reduce this amount of expenditure on current work. As this requires amending the laws, it is necessary to go into social agreements with the public sector trade unions, so much needs to be done to ensure that this can be applied for the following year or year 2013. Nothing has been done, at least I don't know that the current government would come up with any proposal to reorganise the public administration as well as the public sector. It's worse! When asked by the Commission for the supervision of public finances when examining the Court of Auditors’ audit report The availability of preschool education by the Minister of Education, it should be pointed out that preschool education is a huge burden on municipal budgets. [[...]] This is the largest item of all municipal budgets if there is no extraordinary investment in that municipality. So when we asked him whether he would go into this area with norms and standards to make it more effective in some way or also to strain it in the light of the revenues generated by this economy, he said he would not come to the point of reason, because our children are our future and we have to spend money here, of course even beyond any consideration of the economic situation. And when we asked him where the money would come from, he said, To increase taxes. Mr Luksic, Minister of the Slovenian Government, expressed this at a meeting of the Commission for the supervision of public finances about a month or two ago, or once in the spring. Therefore, there is nothing to be done about the state's ongoing expenditure, public sector spending being rationalised, optimized, driven by needs and, last but not least, by the ability of the Slovenian economy. In fact, it saves only for form and thus creates this huge deficit. This is what bothers me the most about this budget rebalancing, because there is no attempt to really go from above down to shrinking and optimising the expenditure field. And in this way, respectable, our competitiveness scales will continue to decline, as economic depression will worsen. You'll probably come up with another load. After all, in your drawers you keep the property tax law, which will certainly mean an additional burden for the economy and people. Instead of dealing more fairly with these questions, he will put an extra burden on them. You've already done this for the building, and we expect some more CO2 loads. That is why, of course, I cannot agree with this wrong path. I hope that the Government will take a serious decision by the Commission to oversee public finances to prepare measures to remedy this country's deficit on the basis of structural intervention, thus reducing current consumption and increasing investment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u37	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u38	Thank you for your word, chairman. First, let us reassure citizens and citizens, because after this excursion, a colleague of Visiak, after all possible aspects of the financial crisis and financial upheaval, could get the feeling that we are just before the Greek upheaval. If that's not the case, they're talking numbers. He said 45. I read somewhere that our public debt is 43% of GDP. And if we compare it with the public debt of the other Member States of the European Union, we will immediately find that 14 countries exceed that magical limit of 60% of the public debt that is the Maastricht criterion. For example, if we start with the most indebted, in Greece, we will find 142% of public debt. Italy 119 %, Belgium 96 %, Ireland 96 %, Portugal 93 %, Germany 83 %. Slovenia is still, despite the crisis, despite the recession and economic problems, within the golden border. Significantly less than 60%, we are at 45%. That is why I see no need for the public to continue to be alarmed, even terrorised by apocalyptic scenarios that are not real. The script's serious. There is also a serious picture of the financial crisis in Slovenia. That is why we are here today and are deciding on a balance that is perceived to be inevitable by all serious observers and acquaintances. Therefore, the party has indeed identified a positive balance, because we are aware that there are no other options for reducing the deficit and bringing this 370 million-euro cut closer to those expectations and criteria that will keep us fairly stable in the euro area. As has been understood from the statement by the President of the Government, this is also a key objective. Stay, and do so firmly, in the saddle of the euro area, without risking what some other Member States are at risk. In the case of Greece, it is already speculating and is talking about the possible departure of this country from the euro area. Nobody's interested. Everyone's looking for ways and recipes so this doesn't happen. But statistics dramatically bring these countries closer to this scenario. Slovenia is far from this option. I regret that one party to the opposition does not go through a more objective assessment of the situation and is unable to admit that the situation is serious but is not yet dramatic. It's serious enough to require immediate action. The balance we have on the table today is one of the important measures, but it cannot be the only one. This rebalancing has many shortcomings, and I think we can all be united in this. We find a lot of dissatisfaction with all of this rebalancing. If we cut on the one hand, we'd probably run into the mines of discontent on the other side, but if we try to solve it on the other side, the past of discontent will be on the other side. That's clear. We had a recent resistance to cultural circles due to the proposal of a drastic cut in the cultural budget. After this was remedied, there were other segments of society that were not satisfied. And that was expected. On the other hand, which we have been alerting for some time to the unnecessary costs of the country, we could also point out that, despite the fact that the defence sector is under strong pressure and is not actually privileged in this balance, there is a certain room for manoeuvre in peacekeeping operations. We're not gonna touch that. 36 million is still dedicated to peacekeeping operations, and this is a taboo subject that will not be affected for a long time. But I did not want to open this question because it is much more complex in nature and we will not solve it or explain it in this debate. What seems crucial to me is to highlight the importance of approaches that will not only aim at a linear reduction of the deficit, but, despite financial pressures, will allow for some developmental orientation of our budgets and also of the budgets' rebalancing. And here I think we can agree with both the coalition and the opposition, even more so with some of the opposition's assessments, that there is quite a lack of development approaches in this balance. The fact is that when we intervene in public finances, we do this quite uncritically and we forget something that would be crucial to speeding up the development factors of this country. We still have not found the right way to stimulate and connect the internal market. We are still somewhere on the pretzel and Slovenia is also operating in a financial sense if I borrow a simple comparison, as our transport infrastructure is developing. The transport infrastructure connects us to the outside and repeatedly forgets the internal connection. I believe that one side and the other do not exclude each other, but both in budgets and in all other development approaches, I miss more emphasis in the internal market, in the internal link. If I borrow another very up-to-date comparison that beautifully describes such negligence, this is our attitude towards Slovenian farmers right in the case of the National Assembly, when instead of buying eco food from our logs, by pure budget logic, we were determined to purchase from abroad and to pay intermediaries. It would be no big deal if members of the National Assembly ate Slovenian organic food and gave the euro or two euros more to do so. Allow me this banal comparison to explain how we feel about the problems and open issues of the state economy. Something similar is happening in the balance sheets and budgets. We are very careful to stay within the euro area, but we forget that the middle layer in Slovenia is the one buying that can develop the internal market. By means of intervention measures, which will certainly be the subject of our debate tomorrow and our decision, we are negatively interfering with the medium layer, which is the only way to ensure the soundness of economic development and the internal market. When we talk about the balance and listen to such long sermons by the former Minister of Economic Affairs, let us forget that some holes have been created in the previous term. Now I will not reheat an old soup about financial holes, about the tycoon holes that occurred at that time, right at the time of the Vision's Ministry. €140 million was lost in the Russian hole of Intereurope, for example. And there'd be a lot of cases like this. Today, we are wondering whether these rebalans will be useful if, on the other hand, a strong link is already being announced by some lobbyists, who are crossing all the biggest customers in Slovenia and are already forecasting big investments, big stories about recapitalisation, not only in banks, but perhaps in the most expensive plan, a project in the Republic of Slovenia, this is a plan called TES 6. We don't know what kind of holes we're going to create with these stories. Probably known is that agency that manages state property and itself symbolizes the indiscretion of the approach to the management of public property. As you know, the party Zares stepped out of the coalition not only because of disagreements with the President of the Government and some ministers, but also because of the unwillingness of this coalition and this government to resolve some of the concrete open issues that will also foster our financial upheaval in the future. The Capital Investment Management Agency is one of the best and most eloquent cases of mismanagement. The Agency, which no longer responds directly to the Government, has enormous potential and enormous power, and in particular is becoming a source of strong lobbying interests. All this does not work for reliable and efficient budgets, and also this balance is essentially a drop into the sea, is patching up something that needs to be patched up immediately. But if there is no strategic consideration of how to go forward and how to take away this country and its assets from the large lobby, which are once on the one hand, on the other, then we will not solve the key issues. I'd like to end my performance with that. Let me reiterate once again that, because of the responsibility we have as a party to the National Assembly as a former member of the coalition, as a new member of the opposition, we believe that it is necessary to support this balance in a useful, necessary way. But at the same time, we note all that has already been said, as colleague Potočnik pointed out in the presentation of our position, so that we do not face a substantial public debt in one or two years. The very effects of pension reform would also not be unduly disturbing to the public. Even if we had adopted a pension reform, we would be facing a similar or at least similar balance today. There is no direct link, but in the medium term there is no concern that the fall of pension reform will have a strong impact on the following budgets and on the future financial sustainability of Slovenia. Therefore, it was the decision of the biggest opposition party – not the Slovenian People's Party, which responded responsibly, but the Slovenian Democratic Parties – that only because of the demagogue accounts do not support pension reform, investment in destruction, investment that will be poorly paid, even if you, if this happens, will take over these governments and these countries. You'll feel what you've been sowing. And you've been sowing a lot of demagogies, a lot of good and constructive suggestions. Therefore, as the opposition party does not want to be demagogic, it wants to support what needs to be supported. But when we talk about intervention laws that interfere with the life of the medium layer and the lower layers, and there will be talks tomorrow, we will stand firm against ineffective measures that, apart from social unrest, offer nothing concrete. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u39	Ms Matey Vraničar, State Secretary, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u40	Thank you very much. Your Honor! Allow me to respond to a few references in the introductory presentations and in the first round of the debate. In the beginning, you have heard about the situation or assumptions under which the revised 2011 budget was prepared last autumn and also in the National Assembly. Subsequent spring forecasts by the Office for Macroeconomic Analysis and Development have shown that their own autumn assumptions were too optimistic. This is why it is incorrect to emphasise in the debate on the rebalancing of this year's budget the reduction of funds on individual items in view of the budget adopted, which was the best possible estimate we were able to prepare last autumn. The figures proposed with the rebalancing for this year should be compared to the 2010 reality. In this way, we get a much more realistic picture of what are the actual possibilities for implementing individual projects and also for spending resources in specific areas. Let me mention just a few of the areas mentioned in the discussions. For example, for the policy area of entrepreneurship and competitiveness, the proposal for a rebalancing for this year provides for more €100 million than was used in 2010. This represents a 46% increase in funding in this policy. Also in the area of higher education, science and technology policy, the level of possible expenditure beyond the expenditure achieved in 2010. Even if we look at individual economic objectives – Mr Vizjak has talked a lot about reducing investment funds and not spending virtually any more resources on investments in the balance sheet – there are total investment funds, both investment expenditure and investment transfers, over a billion euros. Looking at investment expenditure, according to the 2010 reality, they are increasing or still higher by a good 6.5%. Investment transfers to legal and natural persons are up by almost 14% and investment transfers to budgetary users by more than 15.5%, according to the implementation of the previous year. The fact is, in the situations we are in, and in the light of the changed assumptions on which we are making the budget, it is necessary to reduce expenditure. However, the balance of the budget also provides a focus on those areas that are important for further development and for a way out of the crisis. European funds have been mentioned and it has been made clear that if we reduce the use of European funds, we should also reduce the payment to the European budget. If you have carefully read the explanation of the balance, you have noticed that the expenditure of the state budget on payments to the European budget is reduced by a good EUR 46 million. Slovenia is an integral part of the European space and contributes to the European budget in accordance with European financial rules. In view of spending constraints or the projected use of the European budget, our funds paid into the European budget are also falling. Reducing or reducing revenue from the European budget to the state budget is, to the greatest extent, at the expense of those so-called record-keeping projects that are not prepared in this year so far as they can draw on funds, and therefore the entire structure of such spending is shifted over the next time periods. Nevertheless, it is still true that every year we increase the efficiency of European spending and also improve the scale of planning to draw on European funds, which we have not witnessed in the past. With regard to the perception that we are allowing irrational use, and with some specific cases that have been presented in the introduction also through graphic presentation, there would certainly be an item or some use that we cannot claim to be rational, but every matter must also be looked at from a substantive point of view. We were presented, for example, that at the end of 2010, the Equal Opportunities Office had increased its expenditure enormously, but it was not said that it was a European resource draw-up within the framework of the European project. It was obvious that the Office for the Protection of Secret Data had increased employment, but it was not stated that the requirements had been met with regard to the supervision of the protection of classified data had been met by NATO's inspection and that they were being transferred from other state authorities to that office. It has been mentioned that there are no more expenditure, no investments since the middle of this year, because we have stopped the burden or spending from the state budget. Those who have been in the Member States for a long time or working in the administration of the country will certainly recall the provisions of the Public Finance Act which requires the Government to, if it finds a gap between the expenditure and the revenue of the State budget, before it provides a balance to the National Council to stop the implementation of the budget and thus try to balance the revenue and expenditure side. Without this action, further steps in the rebalancing or correction of the budget are practically impossible. However, this does not mean that all payments are made that there are no more investments. The European projects prepared run smoothly. The municipalities which have a significant amount of resources available to investment projects can operate smoothly, and even within the framework of the State budget, despite the suspension of enforcement, there are measures and possibilities for the necessary expenditure to be settled. As far as the revenue side of the state budget is concerned, I would like to have a consistent debate. On the one hand, you caution that we do not collect enough taxes and on the other hand you want us to introduce additional exemptions and reliefs. In order not to make the mistake of a good EUR 312 million for entrepreneurship and competitiveness referred to above, at least EUR 100 million should be added to the funds left to businesses for the relief and relief that have been adopted in the tax area in the past two years in this national assembly. It was obvious to me that I did not want to tell you what funds will be spent on the recapitalisations envisaged in the B state budget balance sheet. If you have read the explanation of the proposal for a rebalancing, you may have read that these funds are not intended for one individual investment or one individual recapitalisation, but are intended to provide opportunities for entry into those companies where the government will assess that this is necessary and appropriate in terms of economic policy. The list of companies to which these funds are intended to be targeted is not available. And if that list is not available, neither can I present it, not today, and I could not present it at the Commission's meeting to oversee public finances. More than once, the Government has also made public efforts to recapitalise the New Ljubljana Bank by the end of this year through private resources. All activities run in this direction, both by the Government and by other state authorities – I think especially by the agency. Briefly on measures to revive the economy. It is also necessary to be consistent in this area and it is always necessary to ask whether we are talking about the tax burdens to which tax savings are spent. Between 2006 and 2008, over a billion euros were paid back to the economy through the reduction or abolition of the pay tax. No one has ever wondered what was the actual impact of this return, or this reduction in the tax burden, and how much of this billion was spent on additional investments and economic development, and how much immediate direct consumption in individual companies. As for the bad bank project and the resolution of the banking system. There is an urgent need for cooperation with Banka Slovenije, and Banka Slovenije estimates that at the moment the establishment of a bad bank is neither necessary nor meaningful. However, the extent to which expenditure is actually limited or how much is being cut for individual economic purposes, the extent to which expenditure has been reduced for material costs in recent years, the way in which and the measures retain the limitation of expenditure on salaries. I would also like a realistic view of what is possible and possible when the budget is rebalanced in this area. If we prevent the normal work of the state authorities, we cannot expect the country to function successfully, nor can it help the country to get out of the economic and financial crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u41	Anyone else would like to discuss the general part of the budget rebalancing proposal? I see three. I'm opening the application. Check-in is on. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u42	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! The rebalancing is certainly a logical consequence of both domestic and international developments in the economy and the state of public finances. And what we are doing in Slovenia is aimed at stabilising the situation both in the field of the economy and in all other social areas. And this rebalancing is certainly far more focused on preserving the social situation of those affected by the loss of employment or who are already retired, and they also need to be provided with sufficient resources to receive their pensions in the future. This rebalancing also responds to the fact that in the previous government there has been a great benefit, that every other child in kindergarten is free. This is one of those measures that is necessary for us to be able to manage this area as well. The consequences, of course, go back in time. It is also true that a lot of debt, in particular gross external debt, has been enormously exceeded during the previous government period. So that this debt was certainly not appropriate at the time, as it in fact caused even faster overheating of the economy, which is still in debt today and in these times of crisis cannot respond to all the challenges, to investing in development than it would have if it had not. Indeed, in 2007 gross external debt increased by a good EUR 10 billion, which means that 6.8% of economic growth was actually based on unhealthy foundations. All these levers are, of course, even more worrying, because very many of these investments have also been made and, in fact, the ownership of all these companies – remember Istrabenz, Pivovarna Laško, Vegrada, Zidar – has reflected in the fact that it is also necessary to react with a rebalancing and adapt to these situations. I myself am in favour of maintaining as much investment as possible. While it is a fact that we can find that investment in investments is at a higher level than it was in 2008, for example. It is also a fact that, given that the motorway programme has been completed or concluded, our largest construction companies have remained practically on the road without new investments. These new investments cannot be provided in one financial year. It's an investment cycle. If you would like to keep all this operational, which in my opinion reaches a period of about 10 years [[...]] I think that it should also be recalled once again that the development axes have not been placed in a space in time, which today could present a new challenge to the construction industry, a new investment. However, these investments, when the completion of motorway construction in the previous term was accelerated, were not prepared and, of course, today the economic growth in Slovenia has fallen extremely heavily on the construction account. What is even more worrying is that in a very short time we will no longer have strong construction companies, which could also compete on demanding international calls and on the biggest investments we are planning in the future in Slovenia. Above all, we can talk here about the continuation of the construction of the railway system. This is the cycle that awaits us and where, even in all these budgets, a substantial number of funds have been allocated than ever before. Building growth and economic growth in the future, if we look at infrastructure, they are, but it is true that at this point all projects are too few to react at this point. Therefore, we also need a balance to try to balance our position both on the expenditure side and on the revenue side. This € 365 million is certainly the amount that this rebalancing needs to save and, nevertheless, to facilitate everything that is needed for further development, even because in all international institutions, financial institutions will be easier to achieve the status that enables us to spend more money on both economic development and other matters. In my view, however, some measures, a certain thought, need to be really systematically changed. In fact, banks are certainly playing an extremely important role today. They also played it yesterday when they enabled high indebtedness and overindebted the economy, and today they cannot react and help the economy when it is most necessary. It seems to me that for the future not only of Slovenia, but also of the world, the key question is how the debt of all countries, almost, or of the vast majority of countries in the world has been saved, and how will it change to think that only the profit that can be generated in banks is the only criterion, and all the other needs have been suppressed into a completely different plan. However, this is something that I think goes beyond the 2011 rebalancing measures right now. I'll back him up myself. Of course, I would like there to be more funding for roads, there is more funding for other investments, but it is obviously possible to cover around EUR billion for investments right now. And I repeat, this is still more than in previous budgetary periods, which is not negligible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u43	Mr. Willie Rezman has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u44	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. In her comment, the Secretary of State raised some of the views that we presented in our introductory presentations. I'd like to take a very short look at some of these. One of the indications we've heard was that it's unconsistent to talk about not collecting enough taxes and at the same time demanding tax incentives for investments. I don't see how these two objectives could be ruled out. When we talk about unpaid taxes, we talk about those who have not been collected, not those who have been paid. And that's about 600 million euros. Approximately 60% of this is an active debt and there is an extra-balance sheet debt that we can forget about. Well, we have to forget a few hundred million. And also that debt that is active that we will ever recover is a debt that causes liquidity problems. The moment it was created, and when it was supposed to be paid, it was gone. That is why there is so much less aggregate demand and so much less investment. Or in another area, in the area of contributions, where we have about 130 million unspent contributions in two cash registers. This is due to the way these cash registers are financed, as a result, to the state budget. As long as we have a pension surplus, there is so much pressure on the state budget that this deficit must cover. When it comes to increasing tax incentives for investors, for those who create new jobs, new products – hopefully with higher added value – we have in mind more value and therefore more taxes collected. No special new loads. It is about returning what is made possible, on the one hand, through more created new values and through new jobs, through new taxes and contributions filling the pension and health allowance. As far as it is clear that it is incorrect to compare the current proposed balance with the current budget, we can also express our concerns about this assessment that this is incorrect. It is true that, and some of us have mentioned this in the introduction, more resources will still be provided on individual items than they were when they were realized in 2010. However, if we remain in past realisations and do not increase our income, our investment and other activities, we will never overcome this developmental backlog in which we are now. So our goal is not to stay old, but to set and achieve some more important and more optimistic goals. And the third issue of the non-realisation of around 200 million European funds, with the rebalancing proponents referring to the fact that we do not have any projects for which these funds, which are approved in the registered projects, could be spent – this is a criticism of our work. Why don't we have these projects, and why don't we have so much domestic demand to enable new jobs or at least prevent job redundancies?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u45	Mr. Milenko Ziherl has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u46	Thank you for your word. Good-bye, everybody! What's the balance? Rebalancing is probably a reconciliation of desire and reality. It is already misleading that it is said that the balance sheet is cost-effective, because in the media it can be seen that it will even slightly increase the budget deficit. Of course, there are certain facts in people’s eyes, first of all on income work. We have seen over and over again that 327,1 million unpaid social security contributions, i.e. for both cash, pension and health, are unpaid during this year’s income work. If a pensioner is unable to recover the funds he owns, it is free of charge to blame a failed referendum on the pension system. The government and ministers have said that we will still be able to bring together around €380 million this year if the pension law is not adopted. But it's the opposite effect. As has been said many times today, the panic that there will be something new, something less favourable for future pensioners, has led to the mass retirement. Neighbouring countries have appropriate instruments to do this, appropriate tools to ensure that economic operators who do not pay social contributions to both cash registers are given special consideration to being under some kind of compulsory administration. And if we don't know how to make money here, then we can still work on the balance sheet. The next source of contributions is the outstanding funds from the European Union. We are here, as has already been established, to blame ourselves, because we are witnessing some kind of system of enterprise, when one ministry interferes with another and then projects stop. And because the projects are stopped, the system is not being drawn. Perhaps one fine example of not using or slowing down the use of European funds right out of our territory — the diocese. Finally, when all the papers were finally received, the Coast is about to go into red numbers and some bagel a day instead of working on the curb disappearing because it's taken away by creditors. The fact that almost 250 million are earmarked in the B balance sheet to increase the country's capital shares in financial institutions will also be seen in the eyes. I don't know what the rehabilitation of the New Ljubljana Bank is. If it goes that way, it'll have to be repaired with seasons. We know that someday D will come when we have to pour ourselves some pure wine. In addition to the fact that Nova Ljubljanska banka has invested in having poor claims on some failed companies, there is also a major construction crisis. There are 12 thousand unsold apartments on the Slovenian market, only in Ljubljana about 3-4 000. At the same time, a high price is artificially maintained. The market value of these apartments, if not sold within two, three years, will also fall due to ageing. Even if we follow the supply and demand, the prices of the square meter should be quite low. However, it is easier to live in certain apparitions and in some seeming state and to maintain artificially the demand for something to happen to one of the dedicated. There is therefore no European funding. We can read that the minister said that some projects would not have worked. I wonder why they were then approved, who read the documentation when they were approved. Therefore, the share of Slovenia, the share of the municipality and the share of the state. Next thing you know, it's gonna be more pay in the state administration. We had a full mandate with Minister Pavlinič Krebs to debate that the number of employees in the public sector had increased and increased. The worst part is that we talked about apples and pears. Some services in the public sector are underpaid. Today, it has been mentioned several times that the country has invented a whole bunch of agencies where friendly people are employed by certain political options. So "ours" have jobs provided. Then it turns out that we have this office, and we have a third and a fourth office, and this office doesn't work at all on the inside. God’s provision for showing someone the uncomfortable truth. They are merged with the government, unable to give an objective opinion and as such are unnecessary. I think I've seen on TV that a colleague of Žerjav has found about 18 such institutions. If I were to follow any other criteria, I'd find the next 18 quickly. So, a lot of nice jobs that Alan Ford uses to "seek ore and waste time." The next thing is that there are fewer subsidies for businesses and more for the unemployed. That's exactly what I'm talking about! If there were subsidies for companies, there would be fewer unemployed. If I go back to banks, we can also see that individual lending is increasing, that is to say, ask what the people of Slovenia have, the money to financially support some wholesalers. God forbid you put some euro in new industrial industries. Nanotechnology was presented here. In Finland, I am reading the report right now, there was a resounding meeting, a whole new area in nanotechnology. But in our lab, except for rare exceptions, she hasn't looked yet. Of course because there's no money. Who's going to invest if there's no money? At least it is likely that it is first one year of venture capital to put the product into effect on the market and then the money starts to return. The comment on this budget balance is still quite considerable. Finally, given that the situation is such as that nothing can be helped, that the coalition side is deaf to comments, for suggestions from the opposition parties, it does not make sense to support or reject the vote. Because the minority government imagines it will rule indefinitely. I think it would be the best budget rebalancing to be early elections, to pull a manual brake once, and perhaps to show better times for this country. Especially since there are black predictions coming from around that there will be a new crisis in 2012. In such relations within the country – on the one hand, to throw money out the window and on the other hand to save, let it cost us as much as it wants – I do not imagine any progress, no indicators for the better. Otherwise, as before, voters and voters will be asked not about the balance, but about who will prepare the next budget and perhaps the next budget rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u47	The word is given by the Minister Dr. Križanič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u48	Thank you very much. In fact, Mr Ziherl's discussion was intended to be a good one. I'd like to complete it in two ways. The first is with regard to social security contributions collected. He was referring to cumulative data. These 300 and several other millions have accumulated over the decade, and we are still leading them, partly as expendable parts than no more expendable. And this is about 30 million a year. However, the total percentage of funds collected is relatively small. It is primarily linked to those companies prior to bankruptcy when they enter into a liquidity crisis. The second thing that surprised me was, in fact, this incentive for active development policy, to enable the creation and expansion of new companies, including technologically demanding, knowledge-based companies. For the first time in the history of modern, as well as pre-modern Slovenia, we have introduced venture capital funds, and they are now very much on the market after the rebalancing to encourage entry into new small breakthrough companies. That's how we combine private funds with public funds. We've been preparing the project for a long time. He may have run too late, but now he's running. In Eurostat so far, the Slovenian city has been empty. All countries allocate at least half a percent or 0.2% of GDP to this asset, to venture capital. In the Anglo-Saxon world, this is mainly done through private channels and in continental Scandinavian via public funds. We were forced because there were no privates, even to enter this project ourselves. Slovenia has so far had an empty window in Eurostat, and it will now be filled with comparable data, such as the most pervasive small economies, namely Austria or Finland, in this area. We have done this, and I hope this will be supported. I would also like to add that the funds for recapitalisation are not intended solely for financial companies. This is a financial transaction by the State, if the Commission considers it necessary, where some medium-sized enterprises need to be recapitalised. You know that some of them, which claim to have a market and expect to allow further employment and their continued successful performance on the market, either through an extension or through a special restructuring company, are called PDP, or directly by the states, where the country is mostly an already important owner. This is therefore still to be decided and these funds are reserved. These funds are usually not used, so you are surprised that they are not specifically mentioned. For example, in 2009 or 2010, we had 300 million reservations, but we didn't spend anything. But later we decided, and this year it was a lot. We didn't just go into the bank, even into Nafto Lendava. In this way, it appears that it will also be necessary to enter one of these small, medium-sized enterprises and then sell off once the competitiveness of this company is strengthened and an appropriate price can be achieved on the market. The same applies to entry into additional recapitalisations of the New Ljubljana Bank or through public companies of NKBM. This is also possible to sell, only the economic situation in the world needs to be changed, including in financial markets, and then taxpayers will achieve even a certain amount of income, and we will maintain these companies as a service, as important hotspots for the development of South-Eastern Europe and ultimately as important employees.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u49	Mr. Mirko Brulc, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u50	Good-bye! Of course, congratulations first to our Primors and Primors! Since colleague Janš said that there would be no national celebration, let me say that the municipalities in Goriška and Primorska have united and that the anthem of the Rise of Primorska is the best to sing at home. So everything's gonna be okay, and we're gonna celebrate the 70th anniversary of the liberation front. Welcome to Primorska! The Minister of Finance once said, "We have Swedish standards and Yugoslav productivity." That's our problem. We've been doing this for years and years. This balance follows the exit strategy, and the deficit is reduced by lowering expenditure. This is important. Of course, it would be easier to increase taxes, but now I say very responsibly: this cannot be done. I told a committee that it would probably be necessary to lower wages, and then the press took it as if we were joking in Parliament and I don't know what. The devil has taken a joke and it's no time for jokes, but the Social Democrats are just so that we know that it's not possible to raise taxes, especially in a crisis like this, and not in all areas. It is important that the balance sheet also provides social security, which is why we are the Social Democrats. Many in this country can be pleased that we are in power by the Social Democrats in these critical times. We have adequate childcare, education, health care, pensions haven't been cut yet. We help unemployed people and others who need help. But it is true that if there is no investment, if there is no solid economy, there will be no money for these areas, because the state treasury is mainly filled with jobs in production. But I'm asking when we're crying about this economy, what about our management. Why are many very successful and competitive in the global and European markets – I can list at least ten of them from my environment – while some are waiting for what the government will do, what the state will do, and they are crying and groaning, mostly in their work on how to get rich? We're talking about the construction sector, a number of times now. This one's foreshadowed. We're losing our reputation in the world. The SCT had to pick up a skewer and hoof in the Balkans and so on. Now let the government handle this. Once there will be a need to set up some construction companies within the country that will build these larger investments that are necessary and for which we have capable builders, and we will have to survive. Look, the SID Bank has spent EUR 2 billion 800 million on investment in recent years. Where did that money go? Where did that money go? It is also true that our country is too expensive. We all agree with that. We ask you whether it is possible to make any cut, employment, costs, salaries and so on during this period. In fact, this country is led by a union and a street under the pretext that the union is fighting against capital, for the worker, and in fact those paying membership fees, with their management staff, remain close to them. Evidence is, of course, lost referendums. There's been a lot of talk about it, and it's a shame to talk about it now. We're talking about taxes, we're talking about a gray economy and so on. It's like everyone doesn't literally look themselves in the face. We know that in the coming years, the pension fund will require more money, and it will have to be cut again. And somewhere else than investments and stuff. We keep hearing about social transfers. It's true. There's a lot of them. But, gentlemen, there are people on the street in the United States! This is not necessary for us yet, even though we are not such a rich country. We're a small country, very dependent on other environments. I agree with what has been said that the SDS has prepared some anti-crisis measures. Unfortunately, with a fig in his pocket, because if those anti-crisis measures had been taken, the SDS could not have ruled under such laws. But they were planted bombs, which would explode quickly, and of course immediately after the elections. I am also sorry that, in these difficult economic circumstances, we are straining these personal relations. On boards, it's kind of annoying to listen to someone share their sciences, forget what they said two minutes ago, and so on. I am sure that there are still many, many reserves in our society that many still live beyond the standard, but at the same time benefit from free kindergarten, free transportation of children to school, free food and so on. We can't make order here. We're in no condition. The country's being amassed. It's still very slow, too extensive, too poorly effective. I'm not just talking about the ministries here, I'm talking about local self-government. For if an investor needs a consent, a permit, and so on, he waits many years and years. All of this is money that would turn around, that would speed up the cycle of recovery from the crisis, but that's not the case. We know how hard it is to put some infrastructure in the space, and if you pass my house, the highway will never go — and if it needs to be, I don't know how many, 100,000 people. Today, we all oppose everything, and as much as possible, the better. If we're ever going to be Social Democrats in the opposition, I'm sure we're not going to crash, we're going to build. I have collected information on the funds allocated to investments in the budgets. In 2007, there were 860 million for investments, in 2008 981, a billion 96,000 in 2009, in 2010 930 million, and this year there were 38 thousand in the proposal for a rebalancing. Now tell me. Any item we look at, we see it grow. But we have the same population, the same number of square kilometers. Some, however, ride with Mercedes, with audio, while some rode with fichitos and logs at the time. And just one more thing, we're talking about unsold apartments. Let's make a deal and tax these empty apartments that the banks have. If the apartment was built for a thousand 500 euros, and now a company wants to sell it for 4,000 euros per square meter, what's the profit? Where does this profit go? Let us make a deal, and with taxes, let us resolve this problem so that young families can buy, at some reasonable price, not superstandard apartments, but conventional dwellings and live in them. Of course, I will vote for this budget balance, not because, as some will say, because I am sitting here and I have personal income, I have cheap food in Parliament and such nonsense, but because it would be very good for the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u51	Mr. Anton Kampush has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u52	Dear Vice President, ministers, colleagues and colleagues, I welcome you! The balance sheet is a purely ordinary asset, prepared by the government every year, at least in the last 20 years, year after year, to slightly balance financial resources in the second half of the year. And every year, we run into the same moves in the sense that one of us is very nice to help, the other is disgruntled, and at the end of the year, there is a rebalancing in some way under the roof. This is what I expect this year. It's a common practice. It is true that the 2012 budget has already been adopted. So I promise myself, given the transfer or the delay of some financial transactions, that 2012 will be a very hard year. It is true that it is time for us all to start saving together, and I agree with all our colleagues on this. I'd take it one step further. Rationalisations in all areas relating to state-owned operations are necessary and must be implemented immediately. If you try to look a little bit at what is going on in Europe, where is Slovenia within Europe. Dear colleagues, Slovenia is a peaceful island right now, it is a peaceful island in Europe – if I look at other countries, what is going on, how they react elsewhere to government measures, how rigorously things happen, which are somehow abnormal. I hope to say that in some way, regardless of what we see in black, in Slovenia, we are still those who have our vision and our goals. It is true that the eyes of the European Union and certain financial systems are likely to be in Slovenia, no matter how small we are, and expect our further moves to respond now that we have experienced the fall of reforms, whether we will now be able to ensure Slovenia's financial sustainability through austerity measures. It depends on a lot of things. Our banking sector, economic operators, exporters and others, which are linked to foreign markets, as well as individuals who are interfering with foreign credits, are dependent on these forward ratings in the European Union and beyond. So you don't have to joke about these things, and you have to take them seriously. The 2011 balance also has some positive solutions. It's true. Social transfers are huge. True, this must be said clearly and loudly. I see another positive side of the medal. This is because this rebalancing of so-called problem areas, such as Pomuri and Pomuri, does not touch or move on normally. So that the resources for development projects in these areas are intact and are intended primarily for new jobs, for the maintenance of existing jobs, for the further establishment of development infrastructure and so on. On the Local Self-Government Committee, I was surprised when I received information last week, from which I can conclude that mayors can be relatively calm at the moment. For the time being, they can be relatively calm, given the fact that the guru accounts of municipalities currently account for 122 million Euros of available funds. That means there's no such thing as a terrible panic. Another information on the use of EU funds. Finally, on the local self-government committee, we have obtained statistics defining the use of European funds from 2005 to mid-year. Use flows from year to year better. By 2008, this use had been negative, and since then it has been a positive sign for all years. But since I believe in statistics, I hope that's true. On the inside, some are highly politicized and drive an abnormal wind. What I wanted to stress in particular – although my colleague mentioned this a little bit – is that the comparison of debates in terms of everything black in terms of economic operators is a horror for me. Everything's black, everything's negative, everything's falling apart, and so on. Colleagues and colleagues, whether in the light of the debate or at the top of the debate, thousands and thousands of companies that are also doing excellent business in this Slovenia, which are export oriented, creating new jobs and are also a model for some foreign companies. This should be highlighted, these companies that are excellent, and they should be set as a model! These should be looked at first, given all recognition and commended. We have many in Slovenia. This gives me a positive energy and that Slovenia can only move forward. I'll support the rebalancing.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u53	Mr. Marijan Pojbič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. First of all, I have to say that I will not support this rebalancing. Mr Janez Janša, President of the Slovenian Democratic Party, in the position of the Group of Members, has already mentioned very clearly and specifically the important reasons and arguments why such a rebalance cannot be supported. I also think that this has been complemented by colleague Andrej Vizjak, and it is possible to understand from those discussions that such a balance as is now proposed in the National Assembly is certainly not appropriate for support. However, I cannot help but overhear, today, in the views of the parliamentary groups and individual debaters, the debates that lead towards re-impressing the previous government. Throughout the day, we have heard many debates about how the former government is responsible for the current situation and the bad situation in our country. And I'd like to ask you some hypothetical questions. I wonder if the previous government is really responsible for the contract concluded with the NPU. Is the former government really responsible for the work of the President's office? Is the previous government really responsible for the tycoon loans of the New Ljubljana Bank? Is the former government really responsible for the collapse of entire economic sectors, including construction? Is the former government really responsible for increasing unemployment from 55 to 120 or more thousands? Is the former government also responsible for setting up agencies established in this mandate that are unnecessary and spend tax money through them? Is the former government really responsible for all that I've written up? These are just some of the things that I thought were important to point out. So that I don't just stick around, I'll remind you of the numbers. Because this is about why it is necessary to save on the one hand if on the other hand a wasteful country works, a wasteful country is at its tenth potential. When we talk about the contract concluded with the NPU, we can talk about the following data. You yourself have heard this many times, and I will repeat that the Slovenian public will know how cost-effective it is and how well it treats the taxpayer's money this government and this coalition, which, of course, supports this government. With Mr Igor Pogacar, who will become the owner of this building, where the NPU is now, the Minister of the Interior has concluded a 20-year contract under which he is paid a monthly loan worth EUR 125,000. In addition to its monthly loan of EUR 125,000, we are paying an additional 11 000 euros per month, which remain in its pocket. The Minister has therefore entered into a contract with Mr Pogacar's personal friend, from which it follows that a monthly payment of EUR 136 000 is made to him. Of this, a 125,000-euro instalment is intended to cover the loan and 11,000 remains in his pocket. But what's ironic here, and what's amazing, abnormal and unacceptable, is that at the end, after 20 years, Igor Pogačar will be the owner of this building! The owner of this building, with the whole credit being paid by the state from the state budget! And such a contract was signed by Mrs Katarina Kresal, the most important man and president of one of the eminent parties in this National Assembly. This proved to be true in their last world, where they gave her 100 percent support. The LDS party gave 100% support to the Minister despite the fact that it was clear that this contract was signed to the detriment of taxpayers. This was pointed out by the Court of Auditors and the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Finally, after 20 years, Mr Pogacar of these 11 thousand euros would have earned 2 million 640 thousand euros. We could pay 5,000, 820 monthly pensions out of this. In addition, he became the owner of the house in which the NPU is now located and for which the State of the Republic of Slovenia pays the credit! Does it seem right to you that, on the one hand, we are dealing with tax money in such an extremely irresponsible way and, on the other hand, we are struggling with everything that is possible and we are proposing such a rebalancing of investments and so on?Oh, my God! Let's get to the next thing. When the Slovenian Democratic Party mentioned the President of our country at some point, the first authority of our country, Mr Danil Türk, was said to have been an endless attack on the Slovenian Democratic Party, how do we allow ourselves to speak about our President of the country? I think that he is the authority, because he has been elected in the country, and every citizen and citizen in this country has the right to express his opinion regardless of who is in what position. Here we have interesting information that the President of the country spent 836 thousand 297 euros in a year and a half for air transport only. Almost a million euros for air transport only! And this is in a situation where most people can't live, when most pensioners with their pensions simply can't survive, where we're talking about social assistance, where we're talking about unemployment benefits and so on. Look ahead. It also says here, and it was revised that in this office, interestingly, some of the employees there were reimbursed for clothing costs slightly over EUR 5,000. It's like this country is so rich that someone can afford and pay for clothes! Can you imagine? Isn't that wasteful? It's across the border! Then there is also evidence that the two gentlemen who were on one of the visits to the office of the President of the country spent only on the night buffet from the 500 euro refrigerator in one night! That is as much as one month’s individual pension! Not to mention how much was spent on stylish furniture – almost 50,000 euros. Then to restore the brunette – almost 60,000 euros. And so on and so forth. These are all the key things that are still important when we see that we are saving the maximum on one side, and on the other hand we are wasting as it seems. If this is done by the first authority of the Slovenian state, the president of our country, who should be an example to all of us, and he knew about all these things – surely because he runs the office – and he allows himself to be treated in this way with the taxpayer's money, how can we then decide on the balance here, where we cut investments where we freeze pensions, where we do not know what is possible, what is harmful and what is contrary to any logic?Oh, my God! With every logic! If we continue, we will go to the New Ljubljana Bank. EUR 250 million has already been earmarked for recapitalisation. In recent days, I have been reading newspapers that say that Nova Ljubljanska Banka will be producing 70 million net losses this year, and if we want to save it, at least 450 million new investments in this bank are necessary. Dear gentlemen, put this together! That's already close to a billion euros! We're here fighting and looking for solutions to freeze wages, pensions, I don't know what else, and on the other hand, the New Ljubljana Bank is doing what comes to its mind! You think that money that's not in the New Ljubljana Bank has been given to the poor?Oh, my God! Did the pensioners get it, or did those at the employment agency get it, and so on?Oh, my God! Did those who transferred this money to the islands get it, and I don't know where because it's not in this country? And who are these people? We know exactly who they are. We know exactly who those barons are in this country. We know! We know! And look at the irony of this government, these countries, justice and everything. Nobody gets hurt! There's absolutely nothing like it's okay in this country. And so far, I have not heard that one employee in the New Ljubljana Bank would be either punished or convicted or anything, when we know that billions of euros of money have gone from this bank! Uncontrollable! Uncontrollable! Then the construction sector. The collapse of the virtually complete sector of the construction sector. I am sure that this government should start investing in the situation when it is determined what is going on. We should not have allowed the entire construction sector to fail! We should not allow this because if we continue to look at it, we know exactly what it means to have jobs back here. Those barons and those we saw with their hands facing each other — there would be no problem if they were removed and allowed businesses to function normally. Those people who were employed in the background are not to blame for the removal of material from one Simoni Dimic facility and it was implanted there and so on. It was all in the papers. I didn't make that up, and I'm not saying it's true, but that's what it said. And so on and so forth. Now we have Mrs. Simono Dimic, who's suing the country for three wages! For three wages because she worked unfairly in her field. Do you know how to play that?Oh, my God! And now he's suing the country for three wages! What world do we live in?Oh, my God! Where is justice here, where is the police now, where are those authorities that should act immediately? And one more thing. I listen to how important it is that the country is social. I think I've said this once before, and I'm going to say it again in this House because it obviously doesn't come out of the right ears, the right sentence. For me, the concept of a social state is not a sharing of social assistance and unemployment benefits, but that people have a job, that they are properly paid for it and that they can live normally, that they can provide a family, that they can buy an apartment, that they can develop normally. This is the true concept of the social state, not an increase in the money for social assistance and wages. That's absurd. Where is man’s dignity taken into account here?Oh, my God! Where?Oh, my God! Please, how much longer do you think we're going to be able to make it in this country with social assistance and pay for unemployment? How long do you think we can handle this if we don't have new jobs on the other side? And where we have opportunities now, it is said on investments, we have started cutting down investment, which is the basis or basis for the creation of new jobs. We can do what we want, we can cut what we want every year – if we do not create the conditions on the one hand for the economy to start developing, which will allow the opening of new jobs, we will, believe me, work a month-to-month rebalancing, a rebalancing on the balance until we reach bankruptcy. And those who say that in Slovenia it is far from bankruptcy are moving. That's when you didn't listen to the Prime Minister. You didn't listen to him. If we continue at this pace and use this debt and money for the current business of this country, it is clear where the path leads us. It's a mag. The Vizjak said very clearly today, and I hope you heard him. It has been repeatedly said that the opposition is responsible for the collapse of the referendums in this country, pension, black work and so on. I can't believe you're even hoping for something like this because the opposition didn't expose the pension referendum. We know who was the one who collected the signatures — civil society. How do you allow yourself to blame a Slovenian nation that has decided differently than you think?Oh, my God! Today I have also heard many times from the President of the Government when he here claimed that the electorate and the electorate are now guilty because the referendums have fallen because of the situation in this country. How do you allow yourself to use such phrases?Oh, my God! How can you afford that? It's the law for me. It's credible for me. If voters say no to the referendum, then that's why they said it, and with as much majority as they did. And you let yourselves say that they are not the ones who have the right because they have made the right choice. The government of Borut Pahor is the only one capable of taking this country one step further. But, my dears, today we have arguments and reasons for where we are. These arguments clearly show where this government has brought this country. We have 120 or 130 thousand unemployed. You're talking about 106 grand. Where are the 21,000 who didn't even get the job, and they're not on the list, they're not on the record? Look at the statistics. 21 thousand and some, and add these together, and you will see where we are. If we are to get out of this abnormal situation and if we are to really step together once in this country, we must take a step to prevent agony and this poor situation in this country, we must move forward. But there's only one way to do it. It's up to you, not us. Not from the opposition, it's up to the coalition. You see exactly that you have no support between the Slovenian people, before the Slovenian people. And you're stubbornly insisting, you're going head-to-head into the wall, we're going with the new ministers. I don't know what you're gonna do. In three years of government, you've practically shown what you know. Now you see exactly that there's no way we could do anything smart. You are stubbornly insisting only to ensure that these channels remain to be emptied, as far as possible, into the pockets of those who are never and do not work for the welfare of the Slovenian people. Never! They work only for personal gain, for their pockets and for their wonderful life. We're talking about a social state here. Today, many times it has been said that we have done everything we can to ensure that no layer of balance has been damaged in this country. You know, my dear, who said that? Either he lives here, like I used to say, and I'm not gonna repeat what I once said, or he doesn't understand things. On the one hand we have a handful of ultra rich people, on the other hand most of the great poor, most of the people who cannot live, and no one can deny it. Like I said before, those who receive social assistance and those who receive unemployment benefits – tell me, can those people think about their family? Is there anything they can think about? What can you afford with 400, 500 euros? Tell me! You can't afford anything, nothing! You can't even pay checks, not so you can think about an apartment or anything else. And now, by cutting investments, we are making it impossible and we are not giving the possibility that perhaps only by accelerating the investment of the country could new jobs be opened when the situation is already the way it is. We're still going through the wall over and over again. You don't want to understand the point. You don't want to! I don't know if you don't understand him. You always said you were an elite, LDS, SD, really. I don't want to talk about Zares today. Today, he is wise to see how this government has done badly, and he has been, in fact, a co-creator of all stories so far. And they would suddenly be the opposition that criticises the government, the coalition and so on. That's not possible, that's not normal! I mean, people can't take that kind of crap! Nonsense! If you remember one more thing, then I'll finish when there was a speech that the previous government did nothing. Who lifted the payroll tax?Oh, my God! That's close to one billion dollars. How many people do you think would be in the office today? Do you even know how to imagine?Oh, my God! Can any of you figure it out?Oh, my God! Nobody knows how to calculate! I'll tell you. This was done by the previous government because it was aware that it was necessary to relieve the economy if we want the economy to move forward if we want jobs to be maintained. Who else but the previous government has reduced unemployment from 96,000 to 60,000 and even less, by more than 30,000 jobs! [[advertising from the hall]] My dear sir, that's what the statistics say and look at them. But if you didn't know how to look at them or read them by now, then I told you today. Please take a look at the statistics, and you'll understand. And don't talk, Mr. Pojbich, don't talk. I'm talking because it's a fact and the truth. That's the fact and the truth. Now we're from 55,000 again to 120 or 130 thousand. This is your victory. It's sad for the Slovenian people. These are sad four years for the Slovenian people to elect such a government and such a coalition. Today, it has been said that no one will be able to solve it with a magic wand if he takes over the leadership of this country. That makes sense to each of us! Everyone here makes sense! What you've left us, whoever's taking over this country's leadership, is logical that they won't be able to do it, but if everything's empty, everything you look at. Then you try to solve the problem with an empty wallet. It is true, however, that the Slovenian Democratic Party is the only party that has presented in the last two or three months a programme and a way to solve this problem and this country. The only one! Tell me if any party in this House has come with a programme. The Slovenian Democratic Party has shown up and opened the cards, and people can get to know each other. But what's the problem? Is there anything he says about what the Slovenian Democratic Party has prepared? [[advertising from the hall]] You can see democracy, bravo! The real lady has just called. That, and you can talk about democracy. Do you know what democracy is for you?Oh, my God! Your personal conviction and red color! It's a democracy for you! Not for us! For me, people wearing red, green, yellow, black, whatever color they're wearing are the same. People have to live for me. But you have never been able to care for the good of all people, but only certain elites, elite groups that were at your heart or written on your skin. We don't want such a democracy in Slovenia anymore! Not me, not the Slovenian people, not the Slovenian man! This democracy has been in this country for 40, 50, and now a few years, but I hope it's over once. It's got to be over sometime. You need to know who's drinking and who's paying. Not only will poor citizens and citizens pay, but only a few individuals who are beautiful and beautiful in this world will drink. No, that won't happen again! We do not need such representatives in Parliament anymore, such as those who will defend elites and elite groups, but not those people who are now in the majority of whom I have talked about, who cannot create a family, nothing. This has to be done! This can be done by all those, regardless of which party we are, who have some responsibility to our citizens and citizens. Believe me, if there's a lot of you that's a problem for me to say what I think is yours and not my problem. I know exactly what country I want to live in and what it is necessary to do for those who voted for me and for the Slovenian Democratic Party. And the last sentence. I come from a place where we have Paloma, where there have been a lot of problems, but Paloma is still alive. However, the country owns 78% of this company. With 3, 4 and 5 million euros, 800 and 900 jobs would certainly be saved there. And what do you think? Until now, the state has not gathered the courage to invest this money. One hundred and one excuse is that that's not possible. In the end, it can happen that such a company will also slowly come into a situation where it cannot survive. That's not what I want. I hope that no one sitting in this House today wants this. [[advertising from the hall]] Can I say it all the way?Oh, my God! I am sure that a number of things have been done in this area. As I mentioned before, we've abolished the payroll tax. Where do you think Paloma would be today if I didn't get my salary tax cut? Do you know how much we helped the economy back then?Oh, my God! You who are an economist should know that, pal. Please don't bother me because you're bothering me all the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u55	Mr. Poebic, no deals, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u56	But if it bothers me all the time, Mr. Vice President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u57	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u58	How am I supposed to have it if half the National Assembly speaks?Oh, my God! Whatever. Why did I expose Paloma? Because this is where I live, where I was born, and I don't care what happens to this company there. I have taken the maximum part in the previous term and also in the fact that the company has remained alive. I hope that this will work in the future, if not with this government, but with any other government. To conclude, however, that this balance, as I said, cannot be supported because it saves things where they are not the right place. This coalition and this government have switched heads with tails, and if it intends to solve the country as prepared by this budget balance, then Slovenia and Slovenia can just start to cross. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u59	Mr. Pukšič, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u60	Thank you very much. Colleagues and colleagues, ministers and other representatives of the government, nice greeting! I'll start with the numbers, and over the numbers I want to show you why you have to start this cart that's going to go into the abyss, stop it, we'd say grab the cliff and start rolling. Of course, he'll be down there for a while, and then there'll be a moment when he stops, and he'll be left alone for a while. It's only from here on out that it's possible for him to start rising again. If we just look at some data. Today, by the government coalition and opposition under B — who said that they had been in opposition for some time — many comparisons had been made, what had not been done before and what the previous government had done wrong. However, comparisons should be made between what is being done. If we look at how good we are – these smug and statistical data are unfortunately many times on the side of the coalition you display too unilaterally, and you display only some segments, those segments that fit you. That's not good. In all areas, including the debt segment in relation to GDP. In four years, from 2005 to 2008, the former government reduced its debt by 4.7%. This new government increased it by 22%, from 21.9% to 43.3%. It increased its debt by 22%. Now say that we are at 43% of GDP – yes, but if one leaves you at this point for a while, we will be at 50% tomorrow, 60% tomorrow. Or else, if we are honest, if we are talking about numbers, we must also say that we also have guarantees for the debt of GDP. From 2005 to 2008, the former government provided 3% of guarantees, mainly for state investments, mainly for motorways, for investments. So far, in these three years, this government has already made approximately 9% of the guarantees. Then we'll say okay. If this was going to be an investment, it would be fine. But it's not working. The vast majority of this or far-off was about covering the so-called financial crisis. And we have all the guarantees together today for 21%. If we calculate 21% of the guarantees and 43% of the debt, we are at 64.5%. It's a real picture! This is a picture of my country! We are so indebted because those guarantees from the financial crisis, we know very well, are hanging in the air. The question is how much of this will come back. The question is also how many other guarantees will be spent, so the state will have to finance them, given that we have lost a lot of businesses and are falling from day to day. You talk so much about social sustainability. Is social sustainability really for someone who has been in employment for 30 years, but is going to a disability pension because something happens to him and gets less than 400 euros in pensions, with secondary education and so on? Is that social sustainability? Do you still remember what you came to power with? Minister Križanič and then Minister of Environment and Space Karl Erjavec offered thousands of euros. He's retired and the Crusader's minimum wage. You're finishing third year, you're doing a rebalancing I expected you to come today with a thousand euros of minimum wage and a thousand euros of pension. [[...]] You promised something, people believed you, and you blew it. Since you've screwed this up, and I'm telling you about the numbers, it would be right for you to just get to know it and admit it. Like my colleague Renata Brunskole said, they once ran the country of a fat cow, and now she's run by crazy cows. Somehow that's how I understood it. If we move on. With regard to the drawing-up of European funds. I use statistics, data from ministries, offices or institutions such as the Court of Auditors and so on in the matters I speak about. Summary of the audit report Drawing on the European budget for the two programmes, the Single Programme Document and the Rural Development Programme for the Republic of Slovenia 2004-2006. Of the 519 million, 493 million or 95 % were drawn. The Court of Auditors has stated that this is the most the State can obtain before the programme is concluded. No wonder you've brought this country so far that even oxygen is no longer available to breathe normally, but I'll try to hold on. In 2004-2008, this country was run by another authority and those two programmes were at the time as much as possible. Where are we today? One of the fellow Members of Parliament said he was happy that we had received information on drawing on the local self-government committee. That's right. We got 'em. Again, I will present only this government information. He was already on the board wondering if we didn't believe that information. No, that's not the point. We believe them, but that's why we're so much more afraid of how catastrophic they are. Catastrophe use of European funds! Since I'm a technician, I'm going to continue with the numbers the way I started. Otherwise, I don't know. But it is true that in technique 2 plus 2 4, there is no more or less, as you know, some also with philosophy to display and wrap in cellophane. The operational programme of human resources has exhausted 33%. However, you should know that today we are the end of 2011 and that in the Republic of Slovenia we have the right to sign contracts to draw up European funds by 31. 12. 2013 and then, in 2014 and 2015, the right to draw on these funds. This means sending applications to Brussels and getting the money back. So, 33% on the human resources programme. At regional development 45 % and at ROPI 15,6 %. Certified applications are still significantly lower, which is even worse. So 33%, 45%, 15% – if you add it up and divide it, it's below 30%. However, there is one regional development programme, the data are from the SVR, namely the regional development programme in the operational programme, the allocation of resources for the development of the regions, namely 586 million. This is those so-called 600 million for regional development to the municipalities. Four calls, one call, were made on this project. By the way, four calls were made in one year! In one year! But the call's been going on for three years! There is now a difference between the previous and the present government. But it's true that the previous government had one minister on SVR, and you've got four now or what I know. Look what the point is. The point is that the implementation of the programme by region is close to 80%, sometimes even 80%. This means 75 to 80 %. It's the only program that's gonna be pumped. There's no other program. Everyone else is at, like I said, 30%. How important is this, and why have we already requested at several meetings of the local self-government committee of the National Assembly in the Slovenian People's Party? Because it is the only fresh capital that would also help our Slovenian economy and keep it above water. Previously, the secretary of state in the economy said that there was a little bit less drawing due to, I've just written down so-called record projects. What are these records projects? Is it a record project that we're going to build a sewer? This is, of course, a record project for you. Or that we're going to build a plumbing? Or that we're going to subsidize companies to get some equipment and so on. Yes, these are the invitations. Today, about 80% of these calls should have been made, even more because there are never as many calls as there are, and there are even fewer funds available. To this day, we had the right to draw on 2.6 billion. But how much did we draw up today? By the end of September 2011, around 500 million. To say that we are finally on the positive side now, given how much we give in Brussels and how much we get back Simply put, we have negotiated for the period 2007-2013 that we will give in Brussels 3 billion to get back 5.1 billion, which means 2.1 billion more. [[...]] Or in other words: every year we should get 222 million more in the budget of the Republic of Slovenia than we pay there. Then we'd be on what we negotiated. However, since we are not doing this, we have already a deficit of half a billion, 500 million euros. If you want, I can give you the information we collected from all these documents together. From 2012 to 2015, we should receive €310 million back each year over what we pay in Brussels. That's not gonna work. We got information from the government's local government office that says so. In view of the fact that the previous drawbacks were very poor from these programs — bad because you did not do the basic homework. The homework was to make the calls, but you were doing the other one. Everyone sitting here today is not to blame. Some, however, are particularly guilty of this, at the beginning of the composition of this government, certainly State Secretary Andrej Jerina, who wrote some letters in Brussels to keep matters confidential, otherwise as explained by ministers, including Minister Gjerkes. The problem is, you've been dealing with yourself too much in this area. That is why Minister Križanič informed you this March, when you discussed this in the Government, of the request and clearly stated that the funds are not being used. This week, for the first time, the National Assembly of the Committee on Local Self-Government said that we have to get a billion 365 million from the Brussels Treasury in 2013. Here, of course, is the question: How, colleagues and colleagues? With what? With that balance? With this balance, we will not get this in 10 years because the question is whether we will draw a billion 300 million from Brussels in 6 years. This year it will be 645 million, this year it will be slightly more, the second year it will be 660 million, it will be a billion 300 million and in 2013 it will be a billion 340 million. Remember the one who will sit in this hall at that time, when the water will burn, for this will simply not be possible. Why won't it be possible? Because today you don't do what you should do. Members and Members of this National Assembly, not the opposition, of this National Assembly, we have given you the opportunity. On Tuesday, we adopted a decision on the Committee on Local Self-Government: The Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development proposes to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia to provide additional resources of €600 million for the implementation of the regional development programmes under the Operational Programme to strengthen regional development potentials for the period 2007-2013. It's the only way and the only plant we can get hold of in this country. It is up to you in the government to negotiate this with a change in the IP within Brussels. Why? Because the congregations are behind this. They've got community projects. The only ones who have it. This is the only institution operating in this country. The government doesn't work, the court doesn't work, except for some public companies, public infrastructure. In short, nothing works anymore! Only municipalities function. The Secretary of State had previously said that the projects carried out by the municipalities were not at risk of running and that everything was oh and at all. Madam Secretary of State, that's not true! The municipalities signed the contract – these are European projects co-financed from different sources, including themselves – to receive money from the Ministry of Finance, to send to SVR in August and to receive money in December. August-December, four months! This does not work, although we are bound by the Law on the Prevention of Late Payments to pay within 30 days. But the congregations are obliged to pay, and the state does not order its share. Then what do the congregations do? They hire loans to settle debt to operators. However, if some of them cannot do so, they hire loans from the operators. And then what? They're following up on late interest. These are in the contract. And then what? The municipalities pay late interest. Then comes the supervisory institution, whoever says, "The mayor, you're a lump, you've been breaking the law." Because the government forced him to! The balance of the budget or the shift within these items that you have drawn up does not, in my opinion, lead to the direction that you should take. Why are we warning, and why are we afraid? Not only in this area, but also in increasing public debt. Colleagues and colleagues, that's fair. During this time you managed to destroy some of the giant Slovenian companies, SCT, Vegrad, CPM and so on. In addition, hundreds of smaller companies, including the low construction of Ptuj with 80 employees, and hundreds of craftsmen and entrepreneurs who have become insolvent. This country is also insolvent in terms of drawing on European funds. The information I was talking about is yours, your governments. And if we are insolvent in this area, I expected – again, of course, naively, because when your government is running, it is too much – to come with a balance that will help. And you come with a balance that gives money to external affairs, education, social, and takes away all the three that make money – transport, local self-government and the economy. How, then, can people believe you in this way, and how do you hope to seek support for such a balance? Today, Slovenian People's Party President Radovan Žerjav has made it clear what the figures are compared to 2008, where the inflow to the 2011 budget was more than 600 million less than in 2008 and for twice the number of outflows, i.e. almost a billion 200. This does not lead to hope that things will stop. Someone among you today also discussed what measures, what are the proposals, what to do to keep the economy and so on? Definitely invest in that segment that will bring new added value. If I simplify because I'm a peasant boy and I'm proud of it: if the farmer goes bad, he'll sell the cow, tighten the belt and buy a young calf, so that he can plow and sow again in the spring. It's a simple farm of logic. But not like you do to slaughter a cow, survive in winter, eat it, and in spring you become servants. Like Ivan Cankar said. If the funds on investments, colleagues and colleagues are being squandered, you have already said that if it breaks where the tides come from, then there will be no more bags to take from. Indebtedness will also be disabled. Shortening on investments means that tomorrow it will not be for social, for what you said, sustainability and so on, it will not be for pensions, in short it will not be for social upgrades. What's to be done? Admit it and say: "These are our great sins, mea maxima culpa, citizens and citizens. Unfortunately, we've been deceiving you for three years, driving you wrong, coming in front of you and putting an account." Just that, nothing more, nothing less. Therefore, in the Slovenian People's Party such a proposal for a rebalancing, supported by some individuals in this country – you know those sitting in the Government and those two coalition parties – and against 99.99% of citizens, we will not support or support the Slovenian People's Party on the side of citizens and citizens. We're not voting for this rebalancing. I'm not voting for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u61	Thank you. Mr. Grill has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u62	Thank you so much for saying that. If the President of the Government of Borut Pahor, when presenting this budget rebalancing, began his performance, I would believe him, the public, would be credible if he started it, "There is a budget balance ahead of you, on which I have two news, one bad and one good." And I would say, "The bad news is that this balance is significantly worse than it was in 2010, and the good news is that it is significantly better than it will be in 2012. It is a comfort for you, a coalition, the formal one and also the fictional one. For the spiral of the budget, the development of Slovenia shows that from year to year it is worse. That is why I can rightly say, not just me, but also the profession, those who learn from the macro-economic picture – that this is what Slovenia is still waiting for. Earlier, Mr Juri had once again performed some giggles, as if the party had now come to the opposition to help resolve Slovenia from a situation in which it had contributed itself to its operation in the government. Above all, he deceived the public by the fact that in Slovenia it is not so bad that we should be afraid of something. He compared the gross social debt that we now have, that we are somewhere in those numbers where there are many European countries. In doing so, he forgot to say that three years ago we were about 22, 23% of GDP in total debt, and now we are close to 45%, and you have achieved this in two years. Other countries have collected this in decades. It is supposed to be a comfort to have nothing to fear that we are not really on the brink of a disaster like Greece. It's not a good comfort. However, I also agree with this: Jamming is not enough. It is necessary to be innovative, constructive, to tighten the belt, but where necessary, and to be significantly more generous towards those areas that will contribute to us tomorrow, in a week, in a month, in a year's time, especially on the revenue side of the budget, to the start of the resolution of the situation. Unfortunately, our wagon is still going heavily down into destruction, and I don't know how it's going to work. I believe, and everyone else, that with the early elections, that everything together lays new, healthy foundations, that then try to remedy this matter as well. If the coalition were more constructive in its vocabulary in its search for solutions, but not always looking for reasons for such a situation in the previous government, it would mislead the public here, that it was empty, the situation in Slovenia would be different. Unfortunately, I can say again, but it is not my intention to convince my debate, because the numbers are more than eloquent that the scam was balanced in 2008. As much as it was coming into the caste, it was also coming out of the caste. Now, in these three years, you've emptied the cap and it's going to be very difficult to start filling it again. That's the sad truth. You're saying that this budget or rebalancing provides some kind of social connection. I fear that this rebalancing, and also the next, will somehow create some linkage between the impoverished, impoverished citizens and citizens. Do not close our eyes and imagine that by having a truly worrying number of unemployed and increasing funds for their compensation, we have resolved what. We didn't. We didn't figure it out, believe me. The vast majority of people who are unemployed, not by their own fault, would like to work, but not to wait for this charity and be overly self-sufficient. That is why we really need to work on that segment, creating new jobs. This crisis in which Slovenia is, too, is an opportunity to deal with such things, which have been systematically leading in Slovenia for several years or even decades to an unemployed generation, especially young people. We have a lot of structural unemployment, a lot. It is this government's fault, as well as the previous one, that they may not have had the courage or perhaps innovation to start our education system mainly in higher education and perhaps in secondary education, to focus primarily on the way young people want and are motivated to educate themselves in those areas that provide them with a job. But now we still find — despite the fact that the macro-economicists, including universities themselves, or those professors who want to understand the matter, warn — that we are still too rich to finance such programmes that are produced by unemployed young people. We have a bunch of highly educated graduates who don't get a job. That's the kind of thing that's gonna have to be changed as soon as possible. Reduce funds for such programmes and rather allocate them to education in those programmes that are also promising. The Secretary of State mentioned earlier that our proposal, the proposal of the Slovenian Democratic Party concerning tax reliefs, further reduces revenue to the budget. That's a short shot. But I am sure that you yourself are aware that tax reliefs, especially on investments, on the profits of those companies that are willing to invest – also fiscal policy theory shows that, with long-term tax reliefs, there is always a positive inflow, in terms of economies of scale. This will produce new businesses, new jobs. It is true that you will collect slightly less from each entity if you give it tax relief, but the suspicion of sumarum is so much more that the inflow into the tax will increase. This was also a practical case in the previous mandate, when we achieved more with tax reliefs, where the junkture was. This is where we should be thinking in this direction, too. Now we are going in the opposite direction – tax reliefs to be abolished, additional taxes to be imposed, and then economic activity is always lower, and this leads to destruction, definitely. This spiral goes to waste until everything goes to hell. I hope not, but the path leads there. I am also ahead of this fact, mentioned earlier by the SDS President, when he represented the position of the Group of Members that there are two bad solutions before us. Even if this balance had not been accepted. What else would it be? In any event, the implementation of the budget is frozen and the municipality cannot move. But if it's accepted, we know it's a pretzel. And where are the reasons? Not only is economic activity affected that it cannot function. There is also great blame on those who, without some funding, could contribute to the acceleration of economic activity. One such resource is the environment and space. We have a minister here, of course. I hope he'll listen to these allegations. How many municipalities in Slovenia do they now have? Why don't they have them? Because they don't get the consent of the Ministry of Environment and Space. Of course, there are other culprits, the Ministry of Agriculture, but the Ministry of Environment and Space is key. Many have investors, have projects, and cannot arrange these documents because spatial acts are not regulated or adopted. Why doesn't it accelerate and this cycle starts? How much is necessary? Mr. Žarnic, this obvious is flying at you again. If we were on the Environment and Space Committee yesterday, we could listen. The question of the Member States will also address this. Just one case of unnecessary waste of money in your department. Because of the lack of respect for the judgment of the court, because of the unjustified or irregularly awarded concessions granted by your director, on 22 February this year you received a decision by the court, you probably know that the affected party will be paid the amount of EUR 800 if the application is made. This means that you will spend every day on one minimum wage of taxpayers' money, up to 500 000 euros, as far as it is charged. Why? Here's the blame only in your department. How much more such unnecessary expenses there are! How many administrative barriers are there? If the Ministry of Public Administration carried out its function and continued Dr. Virant's procedure to reduce administrative obstacles, how much would economic activity be facilitated? It's none of that. Don't jam if there's no money, there's no money, there's no money, but don't let them invest in making those who have the skills that still have the money, even though they're so rare, but there's some that have the money, and there's also the will. But there's less and less of them. That's why I'm not going to support this rebalancing to end it. We will not vote against it, nor will I vote against it myself. But we will meet again at the next reading, I hope that already in the new composition, where we may find just the opposite, that the bad news will be different than it is now, that the previous budget was good and that it is now worse and then vice versa. So I really want you to prepare a more development-oriented budget for 2012 and 2013 and that those who will be able to raise Slovenia from this will see it in these solutions and will be able to do so together with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u63	Thank you. Mrs. Vraničar spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u64	Thank you so much for saying that. Some references from both the fore-and-last discusser require my comment or response. First of all, as far as investment funds are concerned and their cuts are concerned. My statement, when I first took the floor, did not go in the direction that there was no problem in obtaining investment funds for municipalities. We are aware of some shortcomings. I hope that the municipalities are also aware of them when they make up requests for reimbursement of the investment funds they send to the government service for local self-government. What I was talking about was numbers. In this year's budget, €272 million is earmarked for investment transfers to municipalities following the proposed rebalancing. This includes state budget funds and European funds. In addition, municipalities have their investment funds at their disposal. Data show that when budgetary revenues are cut at national level, the original revenue of municipalities is increased each year. In this respect, it is important to understand my debate that there are opportunities at the municipal level to invest, that they are still open and that they are not entangled or disabled by restrictions on the implementation of the State budget. Today's debate has repeatedly mentioned that we are increasing resources for the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by means of a rebalance. It is true that there is an increase of €3 million, but it is necessary to look at the explanation to see what this is about. This is a contribution to the EBF European Development Fund, an obligation which was assumed in 2007 and which falls due in this year and next year. This does not mean that there is a wealth of government or an irrational use of resources. It is a matter of fulfilling an international obligation, from which Slovenian companies can also benefit. A few more words about tax incentives for investments. Those of you who were in the previous term in the National Assembly or in any of the government services will remember that in 2006 a tax reform was proposed, which abolished all tax reliefs. All tax reliefs have been abolished except to a limited extent of tax relief for research and development. The basis on which this decision was taken was an empirical study, according to my conduct, the only one that has been carried out in Slovenia so far. This is a 2004 study that explicitly showed that there is no direct link between the level of the investment tax relief and the actual investment that an economic operator or taxable person makes. It was only in mid-2008 that the first outline of the financial and economic crisis had been shown that the decision had been amended and investment reliefs had been re-established to a limited extent. These limited investment reliefs remain in force today, and no one has talked about them being abolished today. The fact is that a low tax burden can bring or contribute to high tax revenues in a global context, but this story ends somewhere. As it ends, we can see very clearly in last year's dramatic collapse of corporate tax revenues. Not because we have too much tax burden in this area. All possible comparisons, international, show that in this segment we are not in the upper half, but rather in the lower. So there is no way I can agree to the idea that by reducing the individual tax burden through tax reliefs we will encourage greater investment and thus also encourage higher payments to the state budget. We must also be aware that any tax relief given to one taxpayer must be paid in such a way or otherwise by another taxpayer over a higher tax rate. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u65	Thank you. Dr. Jarnic, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u66	Thank you very much. I'm sorry I could use just one brief replica of what you encouraged me to do. It's a bigger problem. I will be very pleased with your question so that I can answer exactly who is signed under the document, the result of which is something that we are paying now. You know how fast the courts work, this case must be a few years old. What I care about during my term of office is that I will not leave the skeletons to my successors, just as I have had them full of closets. However, any such case is very welcome to me, not only to see who has signed it, but who has helped to make such mistakes, but it is possible that there will still be no such mistakes in advance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u67	Thank you. Since there's still interest in the debate, I'm opening the application. We are in the general part of the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Check-in is on. Mr. Likar please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u68	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear representatives of the government, colleagues and colleagues! When I studied this budget balance, I also looked at the documents for the year and a little more back when the original 2011 budget was adopted. So I got a record of Prime Minister Borut Pahor coming back from the top of the euro area, from Brussels, predicting a budget rebalancing. This was in May 2010, last year. And he predicted this rebalancing with the aim of reducing the public financial deficit. He says that this will be a very sharp cut without talking about nominal numbers, but there will be great denials on individual items of this budget. He also said that he had entrusted the Minister of Finance and the Minister for Development with the task of drawing up a budget balance by summer 2010, which would reduce this deficit, expecting this reduction to be noticeable, otherwise the Minister of Finance would be responsible for this function. The issues then took place in such a way that the 2011 budget change that was adopted in November last year amounted to EUR 134 million higher than the deficit, and now we have this rebalancing that we have on the table today, and this deficit is indeed lower, for a total of EUR 58 000. So probably only the greatest optimists still hope and expect the Pahor's ministerial assembly, even with the new ministers, to manage what the government needs to say, has failed in the past three years. I wonder whether Slovenia will really be able to reduce the deficit by a good half billion euros next year to 3.25% of GDP, as announced in the 2010-2013 exit strategy. Although Minister Križanič called this rebalancing super-savory, I am afraid that this will not be the case, because, as has already been said today, it is only about adapting to the expected tides, which are expected to fall by 365 million, and at the same time on the expenditure side. However, expenditure is being reduced, and not any expenditure, as has been pointed out several times today. Investment expenditure is reduced by €185.5 million and investment transfers by €203 million, while current expenditure is said to be paid and expenditure for various other needs, is maintained at approximately the same level. The 2011 budget, when it was being prepared, was already marked by the crisis and also by the so-called government exit strategy, and we can say that it was so-called part of this exit strategy, which is fundamentally deviating from this strategy. At that time, the Slovenian Democratic Party welcomed this exit strategy of the Government, because it set very clear objectives, and one such objective, supported and pursued by the Slovenian Democratic Party, is precisely a reduction of the budget deficit. At the time of adoption of the 2011 budget changes last November, we have noted the neglect of this ambitious objective, as it envisaged a much larger deficit for a percentage point than was envisaged by the exit strategy. This fact has also called into question all the other objectives of the exit strategy and thus the solution to the economic and financial crisis. It is not only my conclusion, it is probably a general conclusion, or at least the majority's conclusion that this government has lost a good part of the citizens' trust and therefore it is difficult to expect it to succeed on any front it opens, even though I wish it the other way around. I wish her a success that would be good for all of us. As regards this budget balance, as was the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party, I will not vote against this budget or for myself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u70	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government! We have before us a budget rebalance due to the gap in the budget, and this is a significant budget deficit. Minister Križanič said, at the end of his address, that for the Government the first concern is humane and social cohesion. If that were true, and if this were to lead the government, I think today, after three years of this government, we should be discussing how to redistribute some minor surpluses rather than cutting into the country's meat when we are taking on those parts that would possibly allow this country to be revitalized. Look, if human and social cohesion were a concern, then criminals would not have entered the New Ljubljana Bank today, and at the invitation of a foreign country due to the origin of Slovenian money somewhere in Sarajevo. We do know, however, that he disappeared in the same amount in Zagreb, Belgrade, that we are not talking about Frankfurt. Then we'd step away from the state bank earlier, and there should be at least as many as the bars, 370 million, due to the ownership of the bank and the huge margins that you take from the pockets of bank savers and directors plus. The state should make so much money, not by rehabilitating the bank for the third time, recapitalising it with tax money and so on. If only that were a concern for a man. But you're worried this government didn't have it and doesn't have it. Why didn't it go to the New Ljubljana Bank or to state banks earlier? Why were some overseers the best - known ones? Why did you put a fox to guard the chickens, if I say in a parable, into the control councils? If the criminals had entered earlier, if they had taken it seriously, then a number of senior government officials would no longer be on the government's list today. That's the truth, too. Therefore, do not say that concern is human and social cohesion. The problem is that there has been a complete erosion of social knowledge and values in these three years. The man became nothing, the citizen became nothing. And they're still bottling up those who have a lot of power from the budget, even though it does ring, even though the situation is dramatic. And it is not true what colleague Yuri said – that the situation is serious, but it is not dramatic. Ladies and gentlemen, this can be said by the party who says he is in the opposition and supports the government. The situation is dramatic. She's extremely dramatic. And that no one will say I'm making this up, I will quote the Minister, the Chief of Staff. I was also on other committees where Mr Juri was obviously not saying that the situation is not dramatic. On September 1st, we had this consideration of the budget, where the Minister was. It is usually accessible, but the third programme did not cover it, although for a week they have been playing old videos from vacations and then three days later, but not because it was ordered that where the minister's words are expected not be recorded or shown. And it was only three days later that they said that discussions were starting today on the budget's rebalancing. The minister said, "So I can report only a rather pessimistic state." And she said what the state is doing in this area, how serious and dramatic the consequences for the Slovenian Army, which is the pillar of statehood, have this cutting and biting into the substance. She then said that we were cancelling all further exercises of the Slovenian Army, that all development in the Slovenian Army had stopped long ago. And the Chief of Staff said the following, and that, I think, even after the rebalancing. The first thing he says is that the military doesn't have enough money for the last salary this year. And it's after a balance that doesn't predict this salary. Finally, he said, "I can't even give an answer as to how long it can last in such a financial framework. I can't even give an answer to how long he can hold himself personally in handling these matters." I thought the chief was thinking about stepping down. Here, however, opposition MPs say that the situation is not dramatic. What does that mean? We are aware, for example, that if the military does not have to exercise, if it just waits in the barracks and has to look into the air, this is an extremely dangerous situation for the country. That's when they go after her head of nonsense. In a similar situation, when Argentina went bankrupt, the Argentine officers went crazy and carried out a coup, which, of course, plunged the country even deeper. I trust the Slovenian Army and Slovenian officers that despite such a situation they will not do such madness, but, ladies and gentlemen, is it not tragic that we are facing such a situation today, September 15th, on the holiday of the accession of Primorska. Of course, I congratulate all the Slovenians and the Primors on this holiday, and I wonder if this country's position is at stake in the long term. Allowing this erosion of the country and the erosion of values and embezzlement of money by oligarchies associated with the ruling option. Under such circumstances, the existence of a state where it is not practical for the military to have dried bread is at risk. They can watch and see that, those who shouldn't know and see it. Where is this taking us?Oh, my God! In these cuts, I believe that, at this point, on September 15th, on a state holiday, you cannot put a good picture because money has already been spent because there is no money, and there has been no real policy to be inflows in previous years. In this situation, however, I must say that there is not yet this awareness or the will to actually take where we can give up and give up or provide minimum livelihoods where it cannot and cannot be taken. On the two committees, as a lacmus paper, as a test stone, I suggested to the committee that we adopt the amendment that we voted on, which took a minimum, symbolic sum, about 40% of the functioning of the Government's Communication Office. Why there? We know that this office has been an office in recent years for producing bad news that annoys citizens and motivates them. In addition, the only activity which should be the activity of this Office shall be carried out by the President of the Government, who shall be paid from other items. So we're not taking the Prime Minister. Mr Koshir was only celebrated at this office after Urska Čepin and the money he gave through Urska Čepin to advertise certain things. And for that reason, we would have taken 2 million out of 6 million! Do you think the government MPs voted?Oh, my God! No, no, they were against it. I also suggested that we give such funds to the higher education committee for college homes, to the higher education infrastructure where the minister said, "But here we are highly malnourished." Do you think you've raised your hands for this symbolic move to warn the government? Nothing would have happened, just positive consequences. No, they were against it. That is why I cannot trust in this budget of rebalancing because once again the strong people have the power to say that if it does not take place with us, it must be taken where the little person feels that social cohesion will collapse and we will leave it where the people of the financial oligarchy have called and telephoned, saying that they will not take it. Ladies and gentlemen, I'm afraid this country is going to go down the Argentine road from years ago to bankruptcy. And those who speak and support such things in the votes do not even support the amendment, which is symbolically useful and is a symbolic lacumus paper for the seriousness of thinking about the government and the coalition, hardly say that the situation is not dramatic. Or that people say that they're not dramatic, and that's what misleads people. Look, that's why I should be against it, but I'm not going into this trap. Three weeks ago, I warned the parliamentary group when it was said that we had to say no. No, I said here they're waiting for us, they're taking us into a trap, because they're going to be talking in front of Merkl and the others, if the SDS doesn't support saving. We are aware of this fall, and this thinking has prevailed. Keep such a balance, it is not possible to support it. We won't reject it, so you won't be able to speak to us abroad, so we're not constructive enough. We will be constructive, we will abstain, but this rebalance does not lead to social cohesion, it leads away from the human being, the citizen. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u71	Thank you. Mr. Luka Yuri has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u72	Thank you very much. Good-bye! If you look at the news from international economic newspapers today, you will especially see the following headlines. Refining the European economy, which is following the cooling of the American economy, but we hope that there will be no or no double crisis. Probable or possible bankruptcy of Greece. A lot of questions and ignorance about Italy's possible bankruptcy. In this comparison with such addresses, our storm budget actually looks more like a nice, fresh breeze. It is clear that we need a rebalancing, and no one challenges it, not even the biggest opposition party. Although he doesn't support it, as I understand it, at least he tolerates it. We do not need it because of the wrong decisions made by the economic policy of the Slovenian Government. It would be very proud to think that the Slovenian government with such a small budget in such a small open economy can have a significant impact on economic growth in our country. Clearly, no economist will object to the fact that the essential elements determining the economic growth of Slovenia are international elements. And it is clear that this balance following the fact that tax revenues are lower, because economic dynamics in Slovenia are lower than we wanted, due to the international situation. Of course, this is no excuse to wash and say that we are not interested. No, no, that's what we're dealing with, and that's why we're dealing with the rebalancing. However, there is an explanation of why we are doing this and of what is the origin of all of this, which, of course, we as Slovenia bear a proportionate share of the responsibility. Otherwise, it is true that we could have made a different decision. We could have made a different decision, but this decision should be made at global level. It is my personal opinion that, both on the one hand, the European Union and on the other, the United States decided too quickly and began to run into a policy of budgetary balance. Too early, we should further promote economic growth, which was too weak, and it is already apparent that this flow into the US's budgetary balance with major problems, which have led to a purely artificial decline in the United States' credit rating, and, on the other hand, an unbalanced and uncoordinated policy in European capital markets, which has led to the Greek crisis – if we have not decided on such policies and would have continued to encourage the economy, I am sure that we would be in a different scenario today. And here Slovenia has the share of the responsibility it has in decision-making at ECOFIN meetings at Eurogroup meetings, and, of course, the European Union has that part of the responsibility it has with its political and economic weight at global level. Unfortunately for this luxury, so that we too in Slovenia simply decide not to go to the balance sheet, we do not, because we are an open economy, an open financial economy, with an open financial market. The imbalance in the budget would most likely mean a strong and further leakage of private capital away from Slovenian bonds financing the Slovenian budget, and hence for a small country such as Slovenia, difficulties in financing their debt. Unfortunately, private money flows to gold, flows to China, flows to India, Brazil, away from the US, away from Europe. We can even hear, and that was to be expected now that China, Brazil and India will come to our aid with private investment so that they can help us with liquidity in Europe and America. And if there is no money, we have no choice but to conclude that certain difficult decisions will have to be made. We need to decide where we will identify priority areas and where less priority areas will be identified. And that, of course, is the issue of controversy. My predecessor mentioned problems at the level of security policy and defence policy. I think that as long as we have to decide in Slovenia that we will not buy as many eight-wheelers as we want, and that we will not shoot and use as much fuel and resources for the exercises of death — because, after all, military exercises are still working on how to defend ourselves, and when you defend yourself in the military and in the war, we know what this is about — as long as we have to give up, but we can still provide people in the public sector with wages, teachers can work normally, people who need social assistance can only get it while we are still at this level, we are still in a relatively good situation in Slovenia. Of course, far from being in a golden situation. In Slovenia we must remain particularly optimistic, the desire to promote private initiative, private research, private development in entrepreneurship. That is why the need for this government and the next government to liberalise the area of entrepreneurship, to liberalise or otherwise, if we want to say better, to relax, but ultimately we know what it is, the area of employment, because only when the entrepreneur knows that he can hire and forgive someone, then he will hire them, or he will take students, will hire them through the agencies and so on. However, when we move more forward than such policies when we decide in this National Assembly that we will also encourage the productivity of workers by compulsory participation in the distribution of profits, let us not forget that, a year and a half ago, on the proposal of the Social Democrats, we have decided on this in this National Assembly, and this National Assembly has decided that compulsory profit-sharing will not occur and that workers will not continue to be encouraged to do so. When we decide to place a fairer burden on the calculation of income when we decide that it will be easier not only to open up the company, but that it will also be easier to approach the assistance and assistance of the country, knowledge and also the capital assistance of the country for us to go into entrepreneurship, then we will have a good perspective in Slovenia. Until then, at least let us rejoice in knowing that money does not bring happiness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u73	Thank you. Mr. Fishich has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, distinguished Minister, Secretary of State, Secretary of State, I welcome you! Today, much has been said in the National Assembly, much to be said, much to be said, much to be said, much to be said, and much to be said. I also have a problem with this interference with the previous government, and with the previous government, with the current government. I wanted to come to the National Assembly to do something good for the state of Slovenia. And in the Slovenian People's Party we have so far supported all the good proposals that came from one side or the other. The Slovenian People's Party also had good suggestions many times, and other colleagues in the National Assembly did not behave as we did. The crisis in the world, the crisis in Europe, the crisis in Slovenia dictates that those who guide us take action. This measure is the balance of the budget that lies ahead. I would have liked to have been involved in preparing such a budget rebalancing by those who are addressing us on the front pages or on television screens. We like to say that we have a very well-organized higher education, we have a lot of educated people. Why didn't we invite them when we were doing this budget rebalancing with the desire to make a difference in the country? Why did we not invite the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia, to pass through our experiences from local communities in order to get through to such a document that would help us take us to better times? We've talked a lot about social and rebalancing today. I would like to say that we have brought these things so far that those on the markets who receive some social assistance are no longer worth doing. In our country, apples or hops are collected by people from Hungary, from Romania, some of our fans go to Austria or Germany. We're suspending public works. I am well aware that through the congregations we have given people much employment through public works, given them the opportunity and the feeling that you need to do something for the money you receive. I don't know why we decided to end this so massively. Of the 200 congregations, I know many, many, who eventually made the directors and hired these good workers, and we have done a lot of good with less resources in our country. I don't know why we stop this kind of practice. Of course I am for helping those who have lost their jobs to help them in every way to get back to them, but there are big, big differences here. These large differences are created and made by those who are employed in these institutions. I'll tell you one case. Ma'am, who worked hard for many years, the company was shut down, she came to the market, and before that she is waiting on the list for the operation on the cross. In the meantime, it is invited by the local community to participate in a small committee that allocates funds to companies and receives a single remuneration of EUR 50 per year. Poor thing didn't even know she had to report it, so she had to pay any more taxes. And because she didn't do it, she lost that money, that support she was getting on the stock market. On the other hand, there are so many people who have run large businesses that have collected so much money and no one has ever returned it, and we are not doing anything in this direction. And there are also such public servants who are willing to help or help. So I don't think it's right that we don't make any moves in this direction either. In this budget, I think, too, if my word were to speak among many others here, in all other areas, we should all, each of us, save and encourage investment. Today is the best time for us to have the opportunity to draw on some European funds, to be well aware that many construction companies have failed because of such or other corrupts and that those who are still struggling to keep themselves will be given the opportunity to start working again. Many municipalities have projects if the state does not have them, and if individual ministries were to make their calls to which municipalities could apply, the construction profession would start to work again, and the bike would start to suck. The sellers of the material would sell, the workers would work, the carriers would drive, everyone would pay taxes, they would start charging the state budget again. Maybe that would draw us. But all the strong preparers of this rebalancing seem to think differently. I do not see any real incentive for jobs in this balance. We're talking about how unemployed they are. I think that everyone here, everyone for their own area, should be aware of and do more in this area so that those who are waiting for work will see a bright spot somewhere in this 20-year-old country that we all wanted so badly. I cannot vote against the balance of the budget because this is better than nothing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr. Kres has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u76	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! The balance that lies ahead is necessary. There is no doubt that he will be accepted. I am sorry, however, that it is not possible to save money elsewhere than when I see that, in order to ensure the financial sustainability of the country, it has to save on investments, both in the Ministry of Transport and in other ministries. I am also interested in how it will be possible to make investments in the construction of new primary schools, which are necessary in some areas for the safe conduct of teaching. At local level, we have done everything and more to obtain projects, permits, a lot of work has been done to successfully negotiate at personal level. You need to know that you need to get consent, substitute parcels, buildings and the like. I hope this is even harder work than red tape. At the municipal level, we have to do all of this, and believe me, it's very difficult. In Lithia and Šmartnem, Lithuania, we were successful in doing so. The projects for the roadblock in Šmartnem, Lithuania, have successfully led to the end, only work should be done. In the primary school project, too. In short, all the documents and everything is ready for success. It follows from this balance that these projects will obviously not be possible to implement. Such projects are still large across the country, and I am sure that when we talk about social sustainability, this is also a great contribution to social sustainability, to providing jobs where I think they can be easily opened. There are too many transfers paid for the week. In this way we would hire people and then realize this aid, and these funds would be very multiplied. We have already warned about this at the beginning of our term of office. Let's invest at local level, it's all set when construction has faced a crisis. You know, I'm not defending those big builders who have also done a lot of damage to this country and the construction sector, but I'm talking about those small construction companies that operate all over the country. Throughout the country, they are evenly employed, and I am sure that the social picture would be even more difficult if the congregations were unable to invest in what they have decided. In this way they employ many people who are also trained for this work. I am also convinced that we would need investment in the construction work because we have not successfully restructured the Slovenian economy. This way, if we open up these investments, we get time for restructuring. At that time, however, restructuring must be taken seriously, all resources should be used 100 percent and more, and we must strive to activate those entrepreneurs who have good ideas, which have high added value ideas, and that is also helpful in this way. And it's not necessarily just the subsidies. This too, but with a better competitiveness of the labour market and the financial sector. Look, we're saying we have very inflexible labour legislation, and I'm saying it's not true. We have very flexible labour legislation, only a subtle flexible labour law, I can say in an immoral way, but the entrepreneur must be saved. Among them are those who do not have the best intentions. But I'm sure most of them have positive intentions. Yeah, look, how can an entrepreneur today get a job differently than a fixed time or force a new employee into espa, and so on, if he is burdened in the case of a hospital in such a way that he has to pay him almost even for a period of time? With this, a small entrepreneur can tell you, destroy and then serve to close businesses, open more businesses, re-employment and so on. If we had these things arranged in such a way that it would be written down to know where we are and to be able to behave in this way, this matter would already be significantly more competitive. We are on this section of the 102nd-place scale, concerning the competitiveness of the labour market and also the financial market. I still understand the financial market. Can't just give credit to poor companies if we don't even know where they are. I understand the banks here, too, but the banks should have behaved like this all the time, even when they were lending loans to such tycoon acquisitions that are currently beating this country. But it is also true that in the case of labour legislation, we can solve the matter very quickly only if, for God's sake, these union leaders have made little progress. This way we can't change anything, and the country will just sink, sink and sink, and I don't know where we're going to end up with this whole thing. That's a dead end! If people were regularly employed, they could also enter the credit market, into financial markets. Maybe a lot of the apartment that's standing here today would be easier to sell and so on. The effects, I'm sure, would be great. But I'm not gonna tell you how big it is, because I haven't been able to figure it out yet. And I say, we have proven ourselves to be socially sustainable. In this segment, where we can change things very quickly, of course, under the conditions that trade unions will cooperate in a way that is necessary, we can resolve this employment market very quickly, as we have already demonstrated that we have a sense of the social state and we have also maintained social sustainability within the framework in which it is. Let me repeat, I do not agree, and I cannot accept that it is at these very investments where we can save the most jobs that we can save today that much. I think it would be possible to look elsewhere for these funds, a little bit and a little bit, and it would certainly also be for those millions that we want to save, of course, with the objective of financial sustainability, which will be achieved, but we don't know what the consequences will be yet. I don't think anyone's ever calculated that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Grimes has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u78	Thank you. That's a good-bye! Today's act, proposed by the Government and supported by the coalition, can be dealt with in two ways. One is through intercultural dialogue. Intercultural dialogue as one of the key elements requires that things should be named by the right name. It must therefore be made very clear that the developmental balance of the budget is proposed. For anyone who has ever had the opportunity to meet with a macro-economic textbook in his life knows that if a country wants to achieve a new development cycle after a period of decline and stagnation, it must at least keep key development investments in those areas that bring high productivity jobs, thereby accelerating the economy and, on the other hand, investing in knowledge and development. These are precisely the areas where this budget saves. However, we should be saving in all other areas, but it is mainly used there. Savings on investments. Let him know who can. One possibility, of course, is that it is complete ignorance. But the second option is easier – that somewhere far from the eyes of the public, all the MPs who will vote on the new ministers or even the new Prime Minister of the Government, if this will extend their mandate, and together with the government team, they will sing the words, "We have a good time if you don't." And then there's an act like we're dealing with here today. Of course, the combination of both is also possible, that is clear. That's what you call ignorance and total ignorance. But by doing so, we are moving on to another possibility of dealing with this act — that it is really just another expression of sense of humor for the current authorities. A lot of arguments, you'll see, going this way. This government humor this week would have earned a subtitle Lots of noise for nothing. Indeed, this becomes very clear and also fun if we know that the budget adopted on the proposal of the previous government for 2009 has been even lower than the current proposal for a savings rebalancing. You know, the Gorenjeks like to save, but also at first sight it is clear to us that there is a lot of noise for nothing about logic, and it is probably an act that is not intended at all for practice, not for use, not for Slovenia, but for waving before the European Union, perhaps before that train that is about to overrun the present in Slovenia, to say that we are doing something to see that we have proposed something. All right, take responsibility for that. I personally firmly believe that your ministers and some have made it very clear that such an act as it is not adequate, not professional, not appropriate, and that the adoption of such an act is ridiculous because some of the legal obligations will run out of money before the end of this year. Well, otherwise, the current ruling coalition has some experience from the past, including some sense of humor. You know, when they ran out of money the last couple of years ago, they just cut that budget year short for a month and they saved it and then they kept on going on and on and on. So there's a lot of funny stuff in this witch financial kitchen. Unfortunately, we pay taxpayers that there will be no misunderstanding. However, because I see with some sense of humor in the present rulings that it is likely to be another epidemic of amnesia, let me remind them why we are in the current situation and why they are now proposing a cobaji savings rebalance that is still higher than what the former government has proposed and confirmed in a completely different situation. I mean, what they did to themselves in 2009. That lower amount of projected consumption was inflated by the 2009 rebalancing, and you will not believe that for almost a billion euros. And then this level has gone into everything and is still in this kabajaga savings budget until today. And that is what the key effect of this government, which we will not feel so much, will be very much our children and our grandchildren – that every day the existence of this government costs Slovenian taxpayers the new 10 million Euros of debt. The new debt per month of this coalition, with extensions in the quasi opposition, and its government will make for a quarter of a billion euros, amounting to the incredible EUR 3 billion of the new debt that will have to be paid — with interest. Drinking from the authorities in the tavern of Slovenia will be paid by our grandchildren. We should all be aware of that. Usually that's how it counts when people don't even understand what a billion is. If someone picks up 10,000 euros, they're all angry, and a billion euros is so big that the average earthman who cares about survival doesn't even count, he doesn't understand. So let me help them with something that's tangible, and let me tell you where this hole, whose reflection is the act that is before us today, is in a way that everyone will understand. One pretty good middle-class car costs 10,000 euros today. Every day the existence of the power of the transition left costs the present and next generations, every family in Slovenia, a thousand cars. Thousands of cars every day. In a year, it's an incredible 365 thousand cars. And in two years, ladies and gentlemen, you're in charge of this crazy debt to every Slovenian family, you took one of their children's cars and threw it out the window. Every family in Slovenia you have taken one car that they will never see, but will be paid for, and thrown out the window, to create the appearance of how good your authority is. You said you were social, some of you said that today. Me, too! Do you know how social you are?Oh, my God! You may have temporarily maintained some of the already privileged groups the current level of social security, which is why you have destroyed the social security of all future generations of all groups in Slovenia! That's because of your behavior. You're so social. And that's why it's no wonder that fog is used to divert attention, and that's why you've given us cultural luxury. We live in Kafkov's novel. The world doesn't know that! Someone in an unprovable place in an unprovable time did something unprovable and 571 of them roared, "He's guilty!" And this is Kafkov's novel, and we live it every day. The magazines are full of it, and the media are full of it, so you can't see how you take every family's car and throw it out the window because you don't know anything else. And then comes a comedy at the expense of justice. We also have this luxury to observe every day. The last act in this comedy is less than the day when the state prosecutor, specifically chosen for an extra demanding and important task, made a public reference to an article of the law, which had long since been in force, and had to be brought to the attention of the judge. No wonder the justice minister prefers to emigrate to China at this time so that no one notices that he should pack first, but someone else after him, whom he proposed. That's how it is now. Last time I spoke on your previous budget act, I pointed out that, in fact, the only thing I can see is that you are being raised in your developmental impotence is public debt. And you said it wasn't fair that something else would come up. I did my best, look, here's the economic mirror of Umarja, that's what your government does. And I went from sketch to sketch to find something really, a nice diagram that would point to something that, in addition to public debt, is constantly rising. You won't believe this. I have good news and bad news. I found such a diagram, look at it – what a beautiful curve. This is exactly where you came into power, and the constant rise, the constant growth of this curve. The bad news is that there is an increase in the number of unemployed in Slovenia. Therefore, when you're finished, although you're holding onto chairs, you probably have your hands greased with cyanocol, you're putting up new ministers, and you're proposing rebalans that are unrealistic at the moment they're proposed. So don't worry about how you'll go into history, because history will talk about you in superlatives. Really in the superlatives! Never before, and I say that never after, will any political team succeed in any political direction in such a short time so savagely indebted to these Slovenias. You have the biggest increase in indebtedness in Slovenia's history, you have the highest level of public debt in Slovenia's history, you have the biggest increase in unemployment in Slovenia's history, you have the fastest increase in unemployment in Slovenia's history, and you have the biggest decline in the economy since independence, so in the history of Slovenia alone, and also the fastest decline in the economy, the fastest decline in Slovenian development in its history. In fact, you're going to go history in superlatives. Of course, the question then is how the spending side is treated, but before we get to it, let me also point out why the revenue side does not work as it should. This is simply because some institutions in this country at the time of your authority do not act as they should. Not that it was ideal before, but as it is now, especially for the small and medium economy, which is the engine for the development of each normal economy, is a disaster. Let me just give you two examples. The first is the failure of financial institutions. I know personally – if you want, I can bring them here if you give them your word to tell us your own experiences – people who went to banks in Slovenia, even the biggest, state-owned ones, and they asked for minimum credits, for a few thousand euros. When they have an excellent product, when they have a steady growth in production, when they employ additional people – in a year, for example, only one of them has employed seven new people, seven new jobs, new jobs well paid – and they have contracts signed for the next few years. And you won't believe it. Everyone said the same thing. In these banks they were teased after days that they had to carry new and new documents, but in the end they were told: you know, this is too much of a risk for us, because you are only here a year or a little over a year and we don't know if you're going to stay on the market. This is how our strong financial institutions work, including those that you constantly rely on with new and new funds from taxpayers' pockets to cover the hole that you are making with political investments. Because at the same time, when what I'm talking about was, let's say, a hip-hop Ljubljana mayor for one of his mega-manic projects, which won't be able to do as much as was promised, got 50 million euros like this. [[claps with your fingers]] . This is how these financial institutions work. And as long as this is so, it is clear that there is some development potential, thus also some potential for reaching a budget that such authority is not capable of and will obviously never be able to intercept. Another problem that may be even more pressing for all who work in small and medium-sized enterprises is financial non-discipline. That is also why the revenue side of this budget is much smaller than it could have been. Our courts work in such a way that the love of God is merciful that I do not lose words about the public prosecution. What I said earlier flew to the public prosecutor's office, not to the courts in the narrowest sense of the word. Look what's going on. Not only are small and medium-sized entrepreneurs now exposed to blackmail, literally, including wholesalers and some large, politically well-supported and funded partners who put them in front of the wall, whether you go under your own costs or go into our own hands, agree on impossible conditions, or we will eliminate you, regardless of whether we have a loss. But we just want to establish our narrow interests. What is even worse is that this financial non-discipline includes many state-owned companies, many state-owned companies, and I hardly know any more – but it is now so far away that I no longer know the case of a small and medium-sized enterprise in Gorenjska, where people would not already be preparing, not just thinking, as they are now, about going abroad. Austria because she's closest. Even from New City, I know him personally, and I can bring him here, a case where he is already moving his company to Austria because he has incomparable greater legal protection and because the country is friendly to entrepreneurship because entrepreneurship is valuable. This is where you flew all over the line. Worse yet, this includes another element to which I always draw attention. This is an element of overblown real estate balloon in Slovenia. This balloon has already been destroyed in virtually all countries, in America, in most of the European Union. In Slovenia, it remains inflatable practically at the same level as it was. Why? First of all, because those of you who are in power are probably supporting a certain circle of real estate and bank speculators who have the only benefit of this, but I think there's something else that's not publicly spoken of, because they're still taboo darkness. This is that in the portfolios of all the major banks of this property, these properties are highly inflated and enhance the external image that the actual image of our banking system, in particular the one owned by the state, is, of course, much worse than it is in fact, and that you know it well. As a result, nothing moves in the area of this real estate balloon. You know what the consequences are? Whoever wants to buy a square metre of walled land for entrepreneurship in Gorenjska will pay between 150 and 250 euros per square metre in a slightly better location. It will receive an equivalent location in Austria's Koroška for EUR 15 per square metre and will then have a multi-annual tax relief because it will set up a new company and will be assisted by the Austrian state. And even worse, something that is long - term destructive is happening to families. Personally, I know of cases when the young family was looking for a chance to survive, and what they did in the end – they collected some money that they could not do anything with in Slovenia, except renting a insanely inflated property in Ljubljana, they went to Austria, where the square meter of walled land is 15 euros by highway and they bought a thousand square squares for 15 thousand euros. That's how much you've put an extra rural tax on our land, and you've accepted it, and you've further reduced the development potential of the countryside and the people who live there. And then the Austrian state co-financed the construction of the house and helped them. And these people will never be back again. These will be the people who will pay cash, including pensions, to the Austrians. But we will lose these resources, and worst of all, without these families – because of your completely flawed anti-development policy. And where does that money end up? Just today it was interesting to read on one of the web portals where Slovenia, under your leadership, stands side by side with police countries such as China, North Korea and the like, and tries to chase websites as independent, as if they were paying media or something like that, and mix apples and pears because it is in someone's interest. The truth hurts, doesn't it? But you know, in the modern world, the truth can't be stopped and your pants shake like that. See what has been revealed: that the newspaper Mladina is financed through Italy from the New Ljubljana Bank, which means – what you recapitalise – read the money of taxpayers to the New Ljubljana Bank – with the money of taxpayers. The hate speech distributed by this magazine was paid by you, with taxpayers' money. And if you're also giving them unlimited television advertising, and we've been able to read about the very strange ties that exist there now, then the situation is clear – that this is actually your unofficial official policy. And that's why I'm not surprised if we're economically where we are. And that is why I am not surprised if today's proposed budget rebalancing is. I am surprised, however, that you could propose such a bad proposal, an anti-development proposal. Take responsibility for him. Unless you wanted to give Murphy the right one more time, when Minister Križanič said behind the microphone many months ago, "You know, anything that could go wrong under this government went wrong." It's Murphy's first law. And then everything is logical, including this budget. For the second marriage of Murphy is said: The natural development of things is from bad to worse.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u79	Thank you. Mr Györek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u80	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, representatives of the government or ministries! Let me begin with a matter that we have heard several times in the beginning today, which is that I personally congratulate Primorkam and Primors on the holiday of joining the Primorska mateti Slovenia. I have also said this now because I remind you that in Prekmurje we also celebrated the celebration of Prekmurje's connection to Slovenia, and unfortunately today no one has mentioned this and it turns out that it went by the way, as if it were a "walking" with the wind. That is why I take this opportunity to congratulate my Prekmurkas and Prekmurjes. This is also related to the rebalancing, because all thanks go to our former Minister Majdi Širca, now after our new colleague, for not contributing to a small amount of funds to celebrate the celebration of the state holiday of Prekmur's accession to Slovenia, as well as to Primorska. By doing so, she showed how much this meant to her or to her client. So much for the intro. Now for the proposed rebalancing. As a Member of the Pomur region, I cannot express my concern about the encroachment of resources in the state budget or also in this rebalancing for implementation, the implementation of the law on coherent regional development and the law of pomur. The other's only for $70,000 this year. It sounds a little bit, but for those modest resources, that's a lot. As well as reducing, cutting investment funds for municipalities – which my colleague Grill has pointed out as a predecessor, and I will not do so now for a long time and for a wide variety of reasons – where the country obviously no longer can meet its legal obligations to finance the municipalities and bear this burden to the municipalities so that they will now have to owe themselves to the congregations themselves, which are already difficult to carry out their projects. Even more catastrophic is the risk of inability to cooperate in drawing European funds for municipalities, which means that the remaining funds for the 2007-2013 financial perspective will not be spent or will remain in the European treasury. It's priceless damage, extreme irresponsibility. If I only remember – I believe that this was the end of 2008 or at the beginning of 2009 – all those perceptions of the previous government, the previous coalition in relation to, under quotations, the poor use of European funds and all the promises and plans how this will be different. Now we see where we landed. Not to mention that this is the most affected by a number of smaller municipalities in less developed regions, Slovenian regions, such as the Pomurska region, which will suffer the greatest harm if such a rebalancing or such cutting of funds is adopted. What has affected me most as a member of the Pomur region is, unfortunately, quite simply and concretely, the deletion of the already planned items from the budget, such as one of the many cases of deleting the item for the construction of the water supply system of Pomurje, the concrete deletion of the entire system of A. As you know, the project or water supply plan in the Pomurje region consists of three systems, so much for the untapped, A, B and C. A is an area covering the valley part of Prekmurje, that is the municipality of Lendava, Črenšovci, Odranci, Turnišče, Dobrovnik, B Goričko system in connection with the Murskohosočko municipality, and system C, but it is the praško-Stajerski part. However, there was also a trimming of funds for system B. This is the water supply for the Goričko region. And that's not all. This is a risk of inability to complete open or completed public tenders in less developed areas which are already disadvantaged in these calls. We have experienced this a number of times in these three years, when "sacks and hats" were distributed to the capital, laws were adopted for this purpose, and now in this rebalancing I see that the countryside and surroundings of Ljubljana are not Slovenian responsibility and duty, but will be your bad conscience sooner or later. And this is supposed to be a successful implementation of the coherent regional development law and programmes to promote the competitiveness of the Pomur region for the period 2010-2015? Hello, please! The original sin or culprit, I would point it out here, is the ILO, the Ministry of Environment and Space, as an obstacle to the development of not only the Pomur region, as we hear and see, all of Slovenia. The predecessor said earlier that companies are fleeing Slovenia, due to such banal obstacles that those hundreds of officials cannot process applications, process something like this that can be done on the computer today. Unbelievable! It is sad that there are banal planning complications, such as this water system A, if I come back to this because this is the most difficult for me, because just before selecting the performers, the competent experts find the inappropriateness of the ideas and projects. Banal matter, some inadequate hydraulic calculations. This is at a time when the projects and the entire building documentation for the application for the System A Cohesion Fund tender should be ready, I am talking about this system and we should start selecting contractors for construction. They say: mistakes in hydraulic calculations. You know, this is about the pressure and the amount of water so that all households can't be supplied with proper pressure or there could be too much pressure to blow up some water heaters and stuff. The Ministry of Environment and Space, as the contracting authority responsible for the entire water supply project in Pomur, has taken over and assessed the projects as appropriate. They simply do not recognise the errors found. Now tell me where you're going. At least that's how it comes from professional reviews. However, it is high time that this meeting is held on the whole issue of water supply in Pomurje, which is now actually coming out so strongly, is such a disgrace to this country when we are at the same time going to help the less developed regions, to adopt laws on not knowing what kind of coherence of development programmes and so on. Come on, please! I will not vote for the balance, even though I know it will be adopted. We've been put before an executed fact, I understand. I will not, in principle, because then I would somehow agree to plier funds in my region, but not only in my region, because there are others here. Not to mention the Department of Agriculture, tens of millions! I would expect the Minister of Agriculture to give some explanation here, some justification. It's like nothing happened. We had such a private conversation, and he assured me that it wouldn't be a problem that all the calls would go on, that everything would count as if nothing would happen. What does this mean that in the previous budget we have been scattering money? Because if nothing happens and nobody gets hurt, then why did we put 60 million more in the budget? You could give the Greeks who already feel sorry for how hard they feel. Then I look at the items, rural development measures minus 45 million. I am going on purpose to study the report on the state of agriculture, food and forestry in Slovenia only for, say, the first axis, improving the competitiveness of agriculture and forestry, with ten measures to increase the competitiveness of Slovenian agriculture and forestry under this first axis. I am going from the item to the item that the Minister says will not be known – training for agricultural and forestry work, assistance to young farmers, early retirement of farmers, modernisation of agricultural holdings, added value to agricultural and forestry products, increased economic value of forests, improved infrastructure and so on, so that I will not burden myself. Here's minus 45 million. Now tell me who's crazy here. I don't know what's gonna happen. It's a bedtime story. I understand the proposaler of the rebalancing and the leading coalition party of the Social Democrat for the necessity of finding a way out, for their perseverance, but I cannot help but point out your exes, even for the situation of the co-responsible coalition partners, Zares and DeSUS, who would now go a little to the opposition, now that the former allies are on the panger of torment. Huh! You are to blame for choosing such coalition partners. A good warning to the future party who will take over the coalition. Have them think twice about who they're dealing with. They remind me of the Italians when, in every world war, they squeeze their tail between their legs when they see everything go to hell. If this was wartime now, it's desertion. First the tree or the wall, then the blunt, the dull, the dull. If I say a bit of a caricature. And their absence here today is exactly the same. Tell me, this is where we, you who are now suffering, and your opponents, are direct. And we are discussing such an important matter as a rebalancing when it comes to welfare or an emergency exit from this situation, and gentlemen are just having lunch. And now, of course, Mr Erjavec, as he did once when we went for that pension reform, we just said bob beans, me and SDS Jože Jerovšek. He called a press conference and complained that he was sorry that such Members as Miran Györek and Jože Jerovšek were here. But he forgot how sorry we all are that he was such a minister in this government! The bucket master, he couldn't even fix the trash. When he was an environmental minister, he came to Goričko, we messed up 12, 15 mayors, he blurred their situation, he showed them heaven, he went to two children's wine, he went to one lunch and home. And the plumbing, just for the plumbing. Now, tell me, what is this responsibility to my Goricans in that every year one minister comes, he promises something, and he goes. And now I'm reading the budget -- here you are, they took it. I don't know. I'm really excited, I'm sorry if I'm a little too emotional, but it would be easier for me to take that kind of money here in Ljubljana. But right now, right here with me. Let me get this straight. Comrade Grimes, we're not just living in Kafkov's novel Process. That's right, we can watch this on TV now. We live in another novel, from George Orwell, 1984, which I told former Minister Kresalov. That one's worse, that's a big brother. And yes, just to finish. Above all, to these gentlemen who are not: you can have a few people for a fool all the time, you can have all people for a fool only for a while, but you can't have all people for a fool all the time.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u81	Thank you. Mrs. Vraničar spoke.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u82	Thank you so much for saying that. Above all, the last two discussions were much broader than the content of the budget's balance sheet dealing with state finances, and it is likely that, we all know and understand, it is necessary to separate from business finances, business entities, financial institutions, whose ownership is a state, but their balance sheet and their business, daily business is the business of the institution's management as such. I believe that this will also be an opportunity to talk about it, but it is only right that this debate separates itself from the debate on the state budget. Once again, I would like to stress that it has been reiterated that this budget is not development-oriented, impossible to encourage the economy and does not provide incentives for the information society or development and technology. Let me repeat the numbers that these funds are actually falling according to the plan that was set up last year. However, if we compare the figures that we are proposing with the rebalancing compared to the 2010 reality, we can find that we are increasing the funds for entrepreneurship and competitiveness to a good EUR 312 million and that we are also increasing the funds for higher education, science and technology to almost EUR 669 million. On the basis of these data, I cannot agree that the budget balance is not a developmental one, of course, within the scope of the options that we have in view of the situation. More than once, the debt, the extraordinary debt, has been noted to have been increased or even doubled over the past few years. In nominal figures and compared to other countries, we must not forget in what international economic, financial and economic environment this additional debt actually took place. And we must not forget that in nominal amounts more than in previous years other countries have been indebted. I do not want to justify or explain in this way that further additional State debt needs to be supported. I just want to show that the situation that we have in the area of debt at this time in Slovenia is absolutely nothing different or no more excellent than in other European countries. Some have also been in debt in nominal amounts for more than Slovenia, and here I am not referring to those countries that are already in a serious financial crisis or at the edge of it. At the margins of the data provided by Mr Grims in relation to the debt, it should be said that the revised budget adopted at the end of last year envisioned a total debt of EUR 3 billion 160 million, with approximately a bad billion being used to repay the debt, which means that this year a net debt of around EUR 2 billion is projected. And with the proposal for a rebalancing of this scale, we are not changing. With regard to the municipalities and the intervention of the state budget in investment transfers to municipalities, I should say once again that the municipalities still have €272 million of investment transfers allocated to the municipalities under the rebalancing state budget. When the colleagues at the Local Government Service prepared a financial plan or revision of the financial plan in the context of global cuts, they fully maintained the expenditure intended to finance activities under the specific law governing development assistance to Pomurje and under the law on coherent regional development providing development assistance to the Pocolp. And in these investment segments, it was because these two underdeveloped regions did not continue to progress as quickly as anticipated. However, individual investments may be withdrawn, given that they are not prepared so far as to draw on funds this year at all. This is, of course, possible for individual investments, and in global terms, the funds for this part that I have mentioned remain unchanged.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u83	Thank you very much. Dr Roko Žarnic, Minister of Environment and Space, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u84	Thank you very much. Your Honor! I'm very sorry that flat-rate reviews, information on the mind, are falling in this assembly. Look, there's only one thing I want to say. It is our duty to ensure that the procedures run professionally. It is your duty or municipality that the prepared grounds are technically and meaningfully correct. And if, unfortunately, the manufacturers were ill-prepared and did bad things on your side, the ones you paid, we'll arrange help, we'll help, but we can't do your job. And there's one more thing. I am very pleased to have this debate in Parliament when we come up with the numbers. And I feel bad if some of the ears are very red. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u85	Thank you very much. Mr. Miro Friday has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u86	Thank you for your word. All fellow Members in turn congratulate the Primors on their holiday. Be allowed to do it myself. We're sorry. You can't congratulate Koros on something like this. October 10th is, of course, a sad day in the history of Korošcev and in the history of Slovenia in general. Such sad days at the time of this government are something else, given that various institutions such as the police administration and the like are being abolished in the Koro region. It's about the budget rebalancing. The budget balance is necessary. But the question is, is it real? When I was doing this rebalancing, I realized that with regard to renting space, there were very symbolic changes. I'm not talking about the NPU here. The NPU's a pretty worn-out topic. In fact, there are still dozens or hundreds of other smaller leases in Slovenia by the country, which are extremely irrational. According to some data, Slovenia, the Slovenian State, the Government, its authorities devote EUR 30 million to rent at the annual level. Only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will have an additional EUR 12, 13 million. And even with a smaller effort to reduce these rents by 20%, the Slovenian state could save 10 million euros almost overnight. But in the balance, we can measure almost in decimals in this area. During these years, we have had very strong deviations in this area. Look, the Anti-Corruption Commission, even at the time of Drago Kos, rented 37,000 euros a month. 37,000 euros a month. At the annual level, almost €450 000. It's irrational. By moving from state premises to state-owned premises to rental premises. Similar things have happened to us in Koroška. The Ministry of Finance, or the Tax Office of Dravograd, has moved from state premises through the Meža to rental premises and pays EUR 15,16 000 per month. This is at an annual level of €180,000. Given the cost of about a thousand euros per square meter in Koroška, we could have already had a nice place of our own. But that's not happening. Not only that, many state-owned businesses are now empty. And as the candidate for the Minister of Public Administration said the other day, many public-owned premises, where tenants – the state does not get rent from them, simply do not pay rent. The damage on this side is enormous and almost impossible to calculate. On the one hand, that the country has much for renting business premises, on the other hand empty spaces for which we do not receive rent, and, of course, on the third side of the non-payment of these premises. The amendment of the Law on Intervention Measures, which we will consider for this item of the agenda, also shows that there is no will for some major changes. See, Article 9a says that employment in 2011 and 2012 is not allowed or allows for certain exceptions. We know who these exceptions will be for. This amendment of the law was prepared by the Government and in its own explanation, the Government provided certain data, for example, on the countries of the European Union. If we look at Bulgaria. Bulgaria plans a 15% reduction in the number of employees in the public sector, a 10% reduction in public sector wages. Estonia – a reduction in the number of employees in public administration by more than 10 %. Finland – bringing together certain agencies. The merger of four agencies is expected to bring €56 million of savings to Finland on an annual basis. We are establishing new and new agencies in this mandate. Germany – by 2014 they will reduce the number of employees by 10,000 and Germany is not as bad as Slovenia is. Latvia – reducing the number of public sector employees by 30%, reducing the number of state agencies from 76 to 25, continuing the closure of around 100 schools and so on. Clearly, these countries have taken their problems more seriously. The balance of the budget is another additional cube in this well-pressed route of Slovenia to bankruptcy.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u87	Thank you very much. Mrs. Majda Potter has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u88	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear government representatives, wherever you are! I will start my debate by requoting data on the share of investment funds, because they say in my electoral base why we do not respond to wrong statements with exact figures. The Minister of Finance, the Secretary of State, as well as my colleagues and colleagues, have warned that it is a false indication that the share of investments is falling. If we look at absolute numbers or percentages in GDP, this is higher. For comparison only, I will not read all the numbers, but in 2007 there were 862 million and some other investments, which is 2.5% of the gross domestic product. After the 2011 balance, billions and almost 40 million, which means 2.83% of gross domestic product. It's just an introduction. However, in the debate alone, I am not thinking of talking long and wide about investment and the other part, which is also the subject of a few last discussions, but I would like to respond to two opinions from the groups. On behalf of the Slovenian People's Party, it was also possible to hear that if we look at non-governmental or government budget consumers, they spent more than in 2008. Approximately 18 budget consumers have been mentioned, but they do not help to calm down the crisis. Not for the first time, Mr Žerjav quoted these users and always mentioned the Office for Equal Opportunities in the first place. Madam Secretary of State has already said where the increase in the amount in 2010 is due to European funds. But then this comparison is also made for the Office for the Protection of Secret Data, which is the same as European funds, but interestingly, it also mentions the Climate Change Service or the Office for Climate Change, which was not set up at that time in 2008. Of course, then this cost is significantly higher. And then in a similar way it was possible to hear in the opinion of the Slovenian National Party's Group: "What rationalisation of the state administration by abolishing a number of unnecessary agencies and offices – various offices for youth, climate change, equal opportunities, and ten more could count which are their own purpose and which are dozens of -- there is no talk, but we all know that they are only hiring and are not saving anything." You see, in this part, I want to object loudly. In 2002, the Equal Opportunities Act also provided for the establishment of an Equal Opportunities Office. The Act implementing the principle of equal treatment also introduced an advocate of equal opportunities or the principle of equality. And from the European Union, we have been warned that we do not have an independent institution to prevent discrimination, to point out the phenomenon of discrimination, to raise awareness of discrimination and everything else. In the previous term, the Social Democrats have specifically warned the previous government about this without a hitch. More importantly, when the law was amended in 2007, the Equal Opportunities Act drew up precisely those provisions which provided for positive measures to reduce discrimination, which also referred to control over the implementation of those measures. And they are replaced by a very benign article in the Equal Treatment Act, which says that such specific measures can be taken, which means they can't. And there is no longer that control instrument and also that of possible sanctions if such positive measures are not implemented. So much for how things can be seen whether they are useful or not. And you see, here is a typical example of how, at the time of the budget or at the time of the rebalancing, it is possible to identify differences in the policies of various political parties. For me, the issue of equality and the principle of equal treatment is one fundamental principle. And if you look at European policies, the orientation of both the Commission and the Council of Europe is that the principle of equal treatment must be integrated into all policies. So if we have an institution that deals with this, then we can't say that it's its own purpose. I'd take a step further. As we will consider the Ombudsman's 2010 report at the October session, you will also be able to read in the introduction the thought of the Ombudsman Dr. Zdenka Čebašek Travnik, who says: "The future will certainly show whether it is worthwhile to save in the field of human rights protection. From this point of view, it is also necessary to assess the definition of the Government to the proposal for the establishment of a centre for human rights." You see, I would have warned you about this place because there was a talk that the government wasn't thinking about anything. In my opinion, however, at least two procedures are well known – they have considered how to organise different government services within these budgetary consumers. I've listed these in the special part of the budget, I think, 15. Those direct different offices are in this section 7. But if you look at the costs they make: the Office for the Protection of Secret Data slightly less than 500 000 euros per year, the Office for Equal Opportunities slightly less than 600 000 euros per year. However, it is also within the government services of the Government of the Republic of Slovenia for local self-government and regional policy, which has almost 164 million resources in its budget. So it's very, very different financially, and it's also very different under the authority of very different services. And the issue of political views is which of these services we give priority to which we do not. I regret that the Government has not decided to set up a centre for human rights, which would start working after the termination of the Council of Europe Information Office in Ljubljana and which would only be a step towards the national human rights institution. This is what is necessary for each country to have direct communication with the United Nations. I have recently paid attention to the fact that some very much talk about human rights when they fight for their rights, but they do not care if these human rights are also real for those deprived groups which are quite a few in this country and which have recently been attacked. From this point of view, I think it is very important for the European civil conscience to be here, especially after the events of this year, when sociologists warn us that we should not be tolerant of any form of discrimination or intolerance when we are witnessing unrest because a huge social difference is unacceptable to people. In Slovenia, the income difference is one of the lowest. Remember that the recent riots in London have also flooded the surface with information about one of the biggest income differences and about the substrate from which social unrest is also growing. And if we are thinking about these things from this point of view, then I, as a citizen of Slovenia, cannot agree to the view that services dealing with the promotion of human rights, which point to discrimination, which provide assistance to those who have been discriminated against, understood as unnecessary, as self-inflicted and as ineffective consumers of public funds. That's the first part I wanted to point out. However, it also seems unacceptable to me that such a general discussion on how to reduce public service costs is the most frequently cited opinion on how to – this has recently been discussed by representatives of the local community, and it has also been possible to hear how they think about lowering norms and standards and thus saving them. I am an advocate of public kindergartens, because good public service is a good public service with several aspects of ensuring quality of life for citizens and citizens is important in this country. Because it is at this stage of human development, it is said in childhood, it is possible to invest the most from the perspective of justice for the equitable development of the human potentials that each person carries. Therefore, the accessibility of quality child protection must be something that we will all build and accept for basic guidance. And here I think of proposals like these that I read coming from local communities – reducing standards on gaming surfaces, increasing the number of children in the departments, not talking about cutting programs – something that does not guarantee the quality of child protection. And if we are thinking about the future and the direction of the budget for the future, then we should be thinking about where we as a society are going to find consensus, where it's worth saving and where it's not. When you talk about investments, investments are mostly walls. And I think it's necessary to invest in knowledge, in people, and that's why I think it's saving in education and education saving in the wrong place. And when the SDS published the programme so proudly on its websites and demanded that even in the Constitution the country's obligation to develop private education be enshrined, I would just say: private education should be developed, but then it should also be financed from private resources. For public service, however, the State must first and foremost take care of it, not that we have established an average of the tertiary education of a private institution financed by public funds. What problems there are, however, in tertiary education is a well-known fact. Now, perhaps just for the end of the comment on those symbolic amendments that have been tabled to test how we think of some initiatives, in fact, by the coalition Members and Members. Yes, it was an initiative to capture money in the Information Office, and only then must it be said what is financed from it, not only by the activity of the gentleman mentioned and attributed to him that he was disturbing the Slovenian public. They did, too. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u89	Thank you very much. Mr Dusan Kumer has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Dear Secretary of State, Secretary with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! My friend Grims is not here, but I hope he's going to the self-criticism that he said with the other Murphy's law about lapsus, because the other Murphy's marriage says he's going from bad to worse, and he's talking about the results after the election. I hope it's his lapsus. I would like to respond to one of the discussions that the champion of the biggest opposition SDS party has had, with some underestimating tone and, of course, a replication of the words to the gross external debt. My personal conviction is that I would not expect the former Prime Minister of the Government to have such an underestimated attitude towards enormous debt, both for households, for economic operators and for the period 2004-2008, particularly in 2007. For my point was that when it comes to breakthroughs for higher economic growth, it is one reason that economic operators simply cannot do so overnight because of their over-indebtedness to this breakthrough. Also, the country does not have enough money in its financial portfolio to allow all this enormous debt — I mentioned the number 24 billion, which is really large — to be subsidized. Not least, when the households were mentioned, so were we as the citizens in charge – the debt is long. The debt has to be repaid. It must now be returned and returned to the future. As a citizen, if I am in charge and if I have been in charge of this period of which I have spoken, I now repay this debt and find it difficult to raise consumption on the domestic market. The same applies to economic operators for this breakthrough. So I have to say again, this underestimating attitude – I hope that there is no Taiwanese inspiration, that any aids or suggestions have been given to Taiwan. And something else about some of the things that have already been mentioned today, and obviously some of the Members and Members of Parliament who were sitting in the previous term, I don't think they've lost their memory, but they just don't remember some things. They have already been mentioned today, but they need to be recalled once again because they are incorrect or incorrect. The former Minister of Economic Affairs made a real exposition here in the National Assembly for tax reliefs in investment. He, he was the one who proposed the abolition of these investment incentives in 2006 and then came some back in 2008. It was the Ministry of Economic Affairs at the time and the Government, together with the Ministry of Finance, who proposed these things. But the point was not even before I was talking about this external gross debt or, say, the tax reform that was mentioned today. [[...]] Okay, there's been a tax reform, but at the same time with tax reform, the expenditure should be taxed on the other side of the budget. Then the purpose of tax reform, as it has been seduced, has some effect. Which is why I'm asking because today I feel like we're talking about the fact that by 2009, these Slovenian budgets had surpluses and we didn't know where the money was. I have this feeling, but, of course, after 2009, there are flaws, and we are talking about balancing revenue and expenditure. And I ask why we had such a gallbladder debate in 2005 and 2006 about some reforms, about pension reforms, why we had such a gallbladder debate, including public protests, about raising a single tax rate and so on, not to mention. Yeah, that's probably because even when the financial situation was completely different, much healthier than today, we talked about these things and we didn't do them at the time. So once again, he may have peed on some of the memories, but he would have simply warned or wished that they were a little stingy. There can be many things that this government, individual ministries, individual ministers have done wrong, but I believe that this ministerial team and this government have not done these things, including those that are bad, so that people, countries and citizens want them badly. This discussion, this criticism on your part to the Government and on this past three-year term, is focused mainly on the fact that we all wanted this country and these citizens only badly together in the coalition and this government. I think you're wrong here. Some consciously, but some, of course, subconsciously follow this.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u91	Thank you very much. Anybody else want to discuss this? He does. Then I'm asking you to sign up. Anyone who wants to discuss the general part of the budget balance, please choose. Mr. Jacob the Presbyterian, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u92	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. All in attendance, all in attendance! First, I have a duty to my fellow magician. I respond to Majdi Potrat's comments on the implementation or opinion of the parliamentary group by our colleague mag. Radovan Žerjav gave it to me. Yeah, I agree with you that you can't talk right now. However, this fact that the costs of state administration need to be reduced is a fact, and this is also noted by the Government, since it would otherwise not have drawn up the second point of today's extraordinary meeting, these are amendments and additions to the Law on Intervention Measures. It is precisely these intervention measures that show that the Government is aware, and it is good that the state needs to be cheap. As the opposition, we do not have all the possible data that are merciful when you are making a detailed draft budget or budget rebalancing or anything, but we do note some facts that something in this area is going in the wrong direction. However, it is certainly necessary to prepare and, of course, years ago, I also actively participated in these things for several years, one whole mandate, and I know how all those preparing the budget and preparing the individual rebalancies are preparing and coping with them. So I take it that it is not possible to speak at all, but that it is actually necessary to examine all consumers and try to reduce costs where possible, in a less painful way or in a more painful way, however. This is my answer; I hope I have answered you at least on my part. Today, there have been many discussions on areas relating to the budget. I know that with all these discussions, we will not affect any change in this balance. At the end of the day, we are already in mid-September. It has been said that the Government has already literally frozen the implementation of the budget in a wide range of areas, especially investment. However, I believe that many truths have been said today, which I hope the Government will take into account in the preparation of the 2012 balance and in the preparation of the budgets for the following years. I'll rely primarily on investment myself. After all, other countries, important European countries, especially investment, have tried to stimulate and accelerate economic development. Here I have information gathered by the Chamber of Commerce on how to solve the problems of construction, which has already been mentioned many times. We know that construction continues to be a whole lot of other industries, and that is why economic development and also the possibility of funding the activities discussed by colleague Majda Potrate are urgently needed for economic incentives. According to the data prepared by the Chamber of Commerce, anti-crisis measures in the European Union are as follows: construction – mainly for the period 2009 and 2010 and also 2011, I do not know the exact time period – in Austria a billion euros, in Belgium 4 billion, Finland a billion and a half euros, in France a total of 21.3 billion euros, Germany 25 billion, Italy 40 billion, the Netherlands 2 billion. These are incentives, counter-crisis measures in construction, especially in the area of infrastructure, in the area of reducing heat emissions in buildings and so on, green energy, green programmes and so on. These are measures that are essential for greater economic growth, which are much more important than the results of these measures. We are literally not already preparing investments. Towards the end of the previous term, I have pointed out that we are completing a motorway programme, new projects for new axes, and we are simply not preparing new infrastructure projects. And at that point, it showed what the situation would be in a few years' time. I have to admit, I didn't think it would be that bad either, I'm sure it wouldn't. I don't imagine that's what I was expecting at the time. But today we have a situation where there are virtually no investments at state level. It's even sadder that we don't even have ready-made investments. We are reducing investments at the municipal level. We have passed the Law on Agricultural Lands, which is good in some part, certainly protects agricultural land, but as a result we have rejected all individual investments. We have rejected investments that were planned primarily by young families, because we do not have keys – I say that no one will be harmed. We've probably already done what we thought. But it's about young families that had good programs, good plans, but that's how we rejected them. I hope that, even after today's meeting with Minister of the Jews, the Government will make a change in this area and that we will revive these investments because we have taken many people literally by the door. I have already asked the Minister of the Environment and the area of concessions or renewable energy twice. We heard his answer, who heard that there are about 400 applications for the ILO concession, of which I think a few more than 200 applications for small hydropower plants. So nothing, nothing's going on in this area. Even after Minister Rok Žarnić's statement, nothing is going on at all, despite the promise that it will be, but this promise has been practically two years now. Well, there's something else to commend. We have repeatedly criticised aid to foreign investors in Slovenia. There are also exceptions and the country helps foreign investors, good foreign investors. I was just yesterday at the opening of one such important facility, a production facility where the country helped foreign investors, within the framework of Japan and so on. The success of aid in recent years is clearly visible and I am sure that you will too. So we also have positive experiences, and above all this positive experience, it is my opinion that we should keep on and take them as an example. We have given the opinion that, above all, because of the things that Žerjav also said in the opinion of the Group of Members, we will not support this rebalancing. As I said in the introduction, we are aware that it is also not possible to prepare or correct it at this time, but I want the Government to take all this debate that has been going on this day into account as much as possible in the 2012 rebalancing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u93	Thank you very much. Mrs. Alenka Jeraj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u94	Thank you so much for saying that. It's been quite a while. With the many things my predecessors have said, I agree. The savings balance saves, where it is not necessary, and most people find and do not need to be an economist to know that if new jobs are, if people are employed, it also means a long-term stable payment of both taxes and in all other cash registers, from health to pension. Of course, this also means less spending on social transfers in the long run. I am sure that most or no one wants to live off social assistance, but to have some normal employment, a solid salary, with which they can support themselves and their family. You have foreseen 120 million more for the unemployed in the rebalancing, instead of spending so much on businesses and foreign investments that actually open and bring new jobs, and that's where the funds are shrinking. You have created several jobs by establishing new agencies and offices, only since January 2 000 500, and by saying all the time that this is because in one previous government we have taken a measure that the other child is free of charge in kindergarten, is at least ridiculous. If this action is so problematic that another child in kindergarten is free of charge, at least during the crisis, stop it, change it if it is such a problem and therefore we have almost 2 billion additional debts each year at the annual level. You won't do that. In the budget, you have earmarked 20 million for kindergarten activities first, after the budget changes you have increased to 26 million and now you are reducing this to 23 million with a rebalance. These aren't the big amounts you're talking about all the time and the mistakes that were made at the time. You're saying the funds go up in higher education. In fact, we had not so long ago here Professor Grinda, who was talking about how very bad this money is then distributed below. And we'd probably expect some results, because it's not always a money problem, but the problem is that the money gets the one who will make it into something, not just to support someone. So, over the entire period of this government so far, in three years, we have almost 5,000 new jobs. Mrs Kamnar once told Odessa that you have already set yourself up several times and adopted conclusions that you will no longer be employed and that you will still have to adopt a law so that you will no longer be employed. That is why I predict that you will continue to reduce employment in public administration, we find it hard to believe or not to believe. The rentals were mentioned. A lot of rent is completely unnecessary after some friend could do it, of course if they had a little less, they were in the premises owned by the state, not being hired by private people for very expensive money. It has also been told which offices, agencies and ministries are increasing their funds. The question is, is it really necessary for all of you? And when you set them up, and when we talked about it costing something, we kept hearing that we needed it, and that it wouldn't cost very much. But in the budget, these funds continue to increase. On the part of the Capital Investment Management Agency, we have been listening to only one dispute all the time, and we have not seen any major impact so far. In these days, we have also learned that there is 600 million tax debt, and you are also reducing the resources of the tax administration so that they will not yet collect what they could. 600 million tax debt, of which 220 million euros is almost no recovery option. We don't do that. We'd get here, not with those poor kids in kindergarten who have a free daycare. In short, eternal listening. Not to talk about travel. I have recently asked the question of travel. I've got such a mole that I can't even look at it yet, but I will, of course, and then we might even ask ourselves if all these trips are necessary for such money. Since there was some talk earlier about kindergartens and why they cost so much and that public kindergarten is the best thing, it seems very unfair to me by Mrs. Potter to say that private kindergartens are less professional or something else. This may also be one of the measures that would have cost the country less to have a particular segment regulated in private. For the first time, they are investments, and for the second time they are jobs, but if we want to have only public kindergartens, then it will be on the back of the country forever. Then it is free to say why we would be so much better and our public kindergartens are so much better than many others, where they complement the public and private offer of kindergartens, they have no problems. We're a lot of things. In short, the eternal hearing that we have to be in charge of almost two billion each year, because one evil Yanšev government has decided that another child will be free of charge in kindergarten, is funny and most of all says about those who consider it the main financial problem of Slovenia. Besides, you're not disturbed by the rent on your friends, and so on, which we pay for the former minister, but by someone else. And for how many children that would be enough, you can calculate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u95	Thank you very much. The replica has Mrs. Majda Potrate.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u96	Thank you very much. Mrs. Jeraj, I'd like you to listen carefully. I have not talked about quality and quality differences nor have I challenged the quality of private kindergartens nor have I challenged the quality of private institutions. What I have said clearly and loudly is that if they are private, they should also be financed from private sources. A number of local communities were willing to grant a kindergarten concession, but there was no interest because there was no income for these things. There is no income in kindergartens, there is no profit in primary school and there is no profit in tertiary education, so there is a great interest in private institutions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u97	Mrs. Breda Bakan, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u98	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. In view of the fact that there have been two speeches on Murphy's rules today, I would like to read three rules from this debate that I have been able to hear today: one is that complex problems have simple and easily understandable but wrong answers. In today’s debate on the right side of the hall, we heard such wrong answers very much. Therefore, the second rule is called the first rule of the debate, never to argue with a fool, for people may not forget the difference. And the impossible law says that nothing is impossible for a man who doesn't need to do it himself. Today we have heard a number of fantastic proposals on how to solve this, they, third and tenth problem, of course, in connection with the budget's rebalancing, but all those who listed these fantastic solutions do not need to do so, because at this moment none of them expects it and does not require it because they are in opposition. When they come to power, if they come, of course, I wonder if these impossible solutions will work. And now I am going to some of the data that I have been listening to today about very, very unrealistic claims. It's just that I've heard that we have 120, 130 thousand unemployed today. Then I heard how impossible it is to see unemployment falling in the same sleep and at the same time spending 120 million more in the budget balance for unemployment benefits, plus for an active employment policy I don't know how much longer, because I don't know what to think. But 120 million I've heard at least five times how unnecessary the money I'd rather give to encourage the development of an economy that will then hire these people. However, this apparent absurdity that the number of unemployed is decreasing at about 3 to 5 thousand per month, while the need for compensation is increasing for those who can think very logically. Those who no longer have unemployment benefits return to employment, while those who are unemployed fall into unemployment. And this country is the rule of law and adheres to the laws it has adopted. It is said that it is right, right and right that people who have now lost their jobs due in particular to the construction crisis and have applied to employment institutions due to bankruptcy proceedings, depending on how long they have worked before, for a certain period of unemployment compensation. And that is why this money needs to be provided in the balance sheet of the budget for these people. We can't tell them: you know, we have a crisis now, and we'd rather put that money in the economy, and maybe someone from the economy will hire you in 15 minutes. Because these people need money to survive today. It's already very small, for an individual, of course. The second is that we have 120 to 130 thousand unemployed. This number is way out of line. We had 107 thousand people unemployed for the month of June, before that 108 thousand - I'm talking about months - and 113 before that. This was the largest number in this term – sorry, 115 was the largest, so I say so. While in 2008, because I couldn't get any more data, the lowest number was 69,000 unemployed. However, there was a speech about the lowest number of 50,000 unemployed in the previous term. It's not that, you know, it's so important when it was more, and when it was less unemployed. How many times have I heard in this Chamber that we now have higher unemployment than ever in the history of independent Slovenia. That's not true! That's not true! The highest unemployment figure was over 140,000, and the figure after the 1990s was gone! Do not waste lies in this hall that should be the temple of democracy, but democracy demands the truth! Don't waste your lies. Let us not falsify ourselves by lying to support our beliefs or by persuading us with lies that may listen to us on the radio or on television, or by journalists who may be able to collect such false information. I would, by the way, say, in the face of the doubts raised by some representatives of the union, and I must say that there is probably a lot of this, too, that in August this year the most vacant jobs were published, interestingly, mainly only at the level of vocational schools. From 618 for trained workers to, say, heavy truck drivers, carpenters, electric instalators, welders and builders, 500, 400, 300 and so on. So, it was published close to 4,000 job vacancies. It is true that some of these jobs are said to be circulating, that the employer publishes a job, employs a worker, fires him in two months and then publishes a new job and so on. But given that the trend is reducing unemployment, it means that this trend is that this publication is not only fictitious, but it is also true. It is more sad and tragic that very many of these people are hired only for a certain period of time. This is actually the fault of our country for which we will have to find a solution. This cannot last, we cannot indefinitely have 50% of young people; here is the focus mainly on young people, especially on the first job seekers, that they are forever employed for a certain period of time, because they simply do not have any long-term social security. Let's talk about things like this. Let us not always talk about how this government or any government does nothing to make the economy develop. Let us also ask ourselves what kind of management we have in the economy that does not have a shred of empathy for the people they employ. What kind of people are these? I cannot use a different tone if we know that there are hundreds of employers or leaders in employers’ organizations who are unable to think about it, but what if his son or his daughter or her daughter were caught up in working for a certain period of 7, 8, 9 years. It is said that there is no way not to rent a loan without having a child, not anything else. This is one of the things that eats me, including with regard to our budget, the balance of the budget, which we must also direct to meeting our legitimate obligations, by law-bound obligations towards people who, due to such and other circumstances, lose their jobs. Now I'd like to say something about a statement. Two colleagues have already talked about this, about investments that are said to be so severe in this year's budget rebalancing. It is important to know that the total sum of budgetary investments and investment transfers in the balance sheet amounts to a billion 38 million – unfortunately I will have to repeat it again – and last year it was 930 million. It is said that we have more than 100 million investments, transfers and direct investments than we did last year, despite the fact that we have reduced something with the rebalancing. However, we have been reducing because we are practically already in the second half of September, and by the end of the possibility of investing, it is only two and a half months to pay. By the end of November, any request for investment must be submitted, otherwise you cannot receive payment within 30 days of this year's financial year. It seems logical to have had to review what is yet ahead of us, the expected realization of the contracts, and then this can be put into balance. Nothing that's already started is going to be unpaid. Furthermore, what is foreseen in the rebalancing is to reduce or defer half of the payment to local communities for their investments from the state budget, will be paid by the end of March, but must be made this year, and will not be a burden for the next budget. So none of these things are fair to speak of as if they were squandering investments. And there's something important. We need to know that, at the Ministry of Higher Education and Economics, it is meant to promote economic development and promote innovation, development, research and so on, of this billion, €857 million has been earmarked. This means that four-fifths of all funds are allocated to transfers to the economy and science, research and development. Even in higher education, because it also means development. No one will tell me that those investments that go to higher education are intended for consumption. Let's be honest. When we read the budget balance, we know – well, here is, let's say, these funds in the balance sheet in view of last year's realisation for 68 million more than last year. Well? How can you say that this balance, while it has to be cost-effective, is not development-oriented? We've heard a whole series of claims that don't have a basis. Finally, when we look at the consolidated balance sheet compared to the period 2004 to last year – in 2004 the total consolidated balance of government budget expenditure, both cash registers, ZPIZ and Health Insurance and all local community treasury totalled 11 billion and some. Last year, this amounted to 16 billion 692 million. It is said that there is a higher consumption of about 50 % or higher for approximately 50 %. However, it must be said that last year there were 4 billion euros in pensions, while 2 billion 827 million were used in 2004. I'm not talking about the fact that too much money was about pensions, I'm just saying that the fact that the population is getting older, that we're not dying for luck anymore at 60 years, so I've got five years of work to do that, and that, of course, it makes sense that when I retire and live until I'm 90, I expect to get those 25 years of pension. And, of course, I will charge the pension fund and there will be a whole bunch of those who are next to me and behind me, and we have the right to enjoy the pension. I am not saying that we must get a high pension, but we must, because this country is so made, because we have done it because we have committed ourselves to taking care of the welfare of all citizens and citizens, and from newborns to those who are hundreds of years old. This is not our duty, this is our right and our wish. That's how I understand this thing. When we talk about salaries, we are talking about the cost of working for all employees in the public sector. Of government officials, municipal officials, public institutions and so on, 2 billion 922 million money was spent in 2004 and 3 billion 912 million last year. It is said that the ratio is about the same as in pensions, even lower mass growth than in pensions. But very important information is transfers, social transfers of course. Other transfers to individuals and households, in 2004 billion and a half, in 2010 2 billion 274 million, are also said to be 50% more. Because we are a social state, we have this written in the Constitution and we ensure that individuals and families have at least about social security. Here I am joining a colleague, I do not know who has already talked about that the difference between the lowest income and the highest income in Slovenia is practical, we can say, first of all, as regards the smallness of this difference compared to the differences in other countries of the European Union, let alone in other countries of the world. Last time I heard from a very important man from Great Britain, who runs a world organization called Peace Child, and he asked me, "What do you think, because it's important, otherwise it doesn't matter in English -- how much money do Members in Sudan have?" We know that Sudan is now falling apart. I said, "Approximately $2,500, right?" No, he said. And a colleague asked, and they said $3000,500 because it was understood that it was too little to say. He said, "Where, a hundred thousand dollars." Now imagine in Sudan, where the poorest people have two dollars a day and their Member has a hundred thousand dollars, and we are sending help to South Sudan. It's okay. I think it's okay to send her. I just think we should do something else. In Europe and the European Union, it should be said once: now enough, some people can't have 5 million euros in wages, others can't have 500 euros in wages, some unemployment benefits or minimum wages. This is not the case, but we are a multi-state one, but we are a community where we should be concerned that we all have about the same life worth living. It's not like some people are really starving, but others are digging in money, including us. We're here, too! And that's why I have to say that I think this budget balance is sober, quality. It seems to me that he offered everything he could offer, and as a very old Slovenian proverb or saying, let's hold on to the length of our bed. I often sleep because I'm a little too long, so my legs are looking over, but this, of course, cannot hold for the budget. For this reason, of course, I will vote in favour of the rebalancing and I call on you not to oppose it if you cannot support it already, at least do not oppose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u99	Thank you very much. Mrs Eva Irgle has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u100	Thank you so much for saying that. Dear Members and honourable Members! I will be brief, and first of all allow me to congratulate all the Primors and Primors on today's holiday of joining Primorska to her homeland. It is right to keep in mind those events when the Primors were truly united and courageous that Primorska could truly rise. However, not everything is so festive and cheesy in this country. Above all, the situation we are in is certainly not pink. The social pressures of individuals are great. Today we have a budget balance ahead of us and we have, this is a fact, a major problem at all levels. The dog should be tightened. However, some problems remain, but they would need immediate action and assistance from the State. Immediate action and assistance from the State. I have come from the Vipavska Valley myself, and I have repeatedly warned through the questions sent that some roads damaged by natural disasters need to be restored. People depend on relationships, they go to work, those who have not yet lost it, because the economic situation right in the Vipavska Valley is extremely difficult. Once the giants, the big companies that were the vital foundation of the Vipava Valley, are failing. But let me get back to the roads. In November 2010, I submitted a written initiative on the rescue of Stogovce beach. I know that that's when Minister Wlačič looked at this beach, and I think the Prime Minister of the government, too. I saw it myself. Now they're somehow getting rid of these things. I warned about the reconstruction of the Lokavec-Premier road and also about the reconstruction of the Col-Premier road. I understand that the situation is difficult, it is difficult for everyone to provide resources, but I am quite surprised that I did not see in the 2011 budget rebalancing proposal that the funds for the reconstruction of the Col-Idovščina State Road should be envisaged. More than a thousand 500 people depend on this road, which today cannot function normally, driving daily on this road, which is completely useless, to work. Locals or locals have also clearly warned the Minister of Finance, Dr. Franz Križanič, to provide funding for the rehabilitation of the budget already in this balance sheet. He wasn't able to provide them. I spoke to Minister Wlačič before about this road. He said, "Maybe next year." But something else is interesting. We have money in this country for anything. We have, say, money for paying off the premises to a friend of the former minister. We also have money for a lot of stupidity, for example, for employees of the president of the country at the minibar hotel to spend over 500 euros on taxpayers. We have money for all of this. But we don't have the money for basic things that would allow people to have a normal life and a normal survival. We don't have the money for that. But there's always money for this kind of marginal nonsense. I think that first, even though we are in a difficult situation, we need to make sure that people can drive on the road and get to work and then survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u101	Thank you very much. Mr Branko Marinič has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u102	Thank you so much for saying that. Nice hello to you all! I think it has already been said today that the balance, which we are dealing with, reflects the poor macroeconomic situation in Slovenia. However, it is clear from the individual items by area that the applicant does not have a priority. How else should I explain the individual items in particular in the second part, where I look at how much was envisaged and how much is being reduced by the balance sheet? You know, if I compare this, this reduction in individual budget lines, and when I figure out where, in which part of Slovenia, these funds would go, I'm so much more concerned. Today, the secretary at the Ministry of Finance has said several times that 272 million development money is foreseen for municipalities in this balance sheet. Here, of course, I am asked if, on the one hand, EUR 272 million has been provided for the development of municipalities, how do you not know how to coordinate and promote all activities in different ministries? The Ministry of Environment and Space, the Directorate of Space, also takes a year to issue a single document, because it is the one who provides guidance for the municipal spatial plan to be perfect. At the Ministry of Agriculture, the Directorate also takes up to seven months. These are specific data that are of concern and, in the light of the question I have referred to the Minister for Environment and Space and the Minister for Agriculture, I have highlighted exactly what I am talking about. It is not possible to accelerate a development cycle or infrastructure in this sense if officials who should feel and experience with those on the ground that something needs to be accelerated – this should also be reflected in their work. I'm not talking in general, I'm talking about some cases that are like bright exceptions, and this shouldn't be happening, especially at the time we're in. I think that my colleague, Presecnik, has pointed out nicely what and how some other Member States of the European Union have decided when they have taken a step to help the economy when they help the construction industry, because the construction sector drives and integrates many other economic sectors that are extremely important for all economic development. And it is a worrying fact that then we look at real numbers and real items in the field of the Ministry of Transport. I have pointed out many times before, the Minister of Transport has said many times: "In this mandate I will be more Minister of Railways than Minister of Roads." Today, after three years, I wonder: Is this true? At the time when we made important decisions, there was no decision to cut into public rail infrastructure by concrete means. Some projects have started in the previous term. This is a small number of projects and, of course, they are large in terms of both financial and operational construction. Why this priority has not been taken into account has never been explained to me, and today it is reflected as something that has been imported. Today, when I look at this line of the Ministry of Transport, which is falling, 130 million, 100 million on railways, 30 million on state roads, that's something we have to worry about. If we somehow mitigate these dangerous sections on state roads by establishing some traffic signalling, it will reflect what we are leaving and leaving with this rebalancing, investing in public rail infrastructure. Public rail infrastructure has been maintained for years and years. Once again, important steps have been and have been taken in the previous mandate. The beginning was optimistic when current Minister Vlačič announced that he would be more Minister of Railways than Minister of Roads, but he did not. And if it was precisely within your mandate that legislation was adopted in the field of railways, which also provides for the payment of some of the recognised costs to the railway back, then – this is not the direct content of this rebalancing, but it is already clear that officials at individual ministries are already preparing a rebalancing for 2012. And if I do this a little bit superficially, I come to the conclusion that the Ministry of Transport will have to save €170 million for next year in the area of commitments adopted in the current mandate. What does that mean? It will take place on projects, on those projects that are already under way, and will be reduced on those items that are essential for progress and development, and we will slowly take this railway back to where it has already been. As regards airport infrastructure, airport infrastructure is also taken into account in the rebalancing. Today, at least that is what the minister himself said, a better equipped airport in Portorož than an airport in Maribor. Let's not think about what strange numbers about the value of some part of the airport infrastructure come to the public, what value they have. I have warned many times, and this time I warn you: Maribor Airport is in a catastrophic state. The reduction in airport infrastructure resources will be the most and most felt by the right airport in Maribor, because it is somewhere on the outskirts of Slovenia. Not to mention Luke Koper and many other infrastructure facilities owned by the State, the state should take better care of them. Of course, the fact is that where it's not there's nothing to take and there's nothing to give. But as I said at the outset, the rebalancing reflects a poor macroeconomic situation in Slovenia. And that's what the government should influence, it has all the levers, and it has all the instruments. It's hard to look back today three years ago and point your finger at you if that's what you did wrong. It is better to set up a mirror and see what has led to this bad decision to have such a condition today. I wish that, in setting a priority for the 2012 balance, which I believe will at least be worse in the area of transport, which I know a little better, than we now have before us. It is therefore not possible to avoid focusing on the content of the debate, but it cannot be supported or opposed. That is why I leave this responsibility to myself. Just as you've seduced things, you'll have to take them away, do what's necessary, and it's obvious that money is running out of money for the most urgent.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u103	Thank you very much. I ask my colleagues whether anyone else wants to discuss the general part of the proposal for a rebalancing. He does. Then I ask you to sign up for the debate. Mr. Janko Weber, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u104	Thank you for your word. I myself wanted to be involved in the debate because of transport policy or railway problems, which I had heard in the previous debate, but it must be said, however, that this government has really taken a number of measures to preserve, encourage and, last but not least, enable the existence of Slovenian railways. We have also taken important decisions within the transport ministry system itself, how to approach new investments, so that these decisions that we have taken were extremely important, and show that the profession in this area is also aware that the strong investment cycle, as represented by motorways, will soon be no longer a new challenge for Slovenian engineering as well as for Slovenian construction. In order to speed up all procedures to place investments in a space to draw on European funds for this purpose, an investment company was also organised. This will certainly help to preserve the importance of European corridors, not only in road transport, but also in rail transport, and in particular Slovenia's goal of maintaining our role within these important European corridors, in order not to be bypassed by these many routes and that these traffic flows do not go anywhere else. So that the priorities of the railway with this government and the Ministry of Transport are clearly outlined, and I think there is no doubt that this very important project will not be realized here. With regard to Luke Koper, we can say that we have made many missed moves, steps in the past government period, I must say, we have tried to recover. I think that the operation of Luke Koper is significantly more transparent than it was before, where some of the decisions have resulted in extremely serious problems for our biggest logistics companies. These are problems, these are transport problems that we have encountered and we are also trying to solve successfully because we are aware of the strategic situation of Luke Koper and Slovenia within the European transport corridors. We are all aware, and the Minister himself has said that he is not satisfied that funds are being taken in connection with investments in road infrastructure, but on the sidelines of the discussions that have been held, let me say that no investment that started in the previous term has been stopped, but that is precisely because all the investments that have been prepared for this to come to an end, and by doing so let us resolve and ensure adequate mobility for the people in many areas. I believe that there are still quite a few roads today that need to be updated, but I am sure that this dynamic will also have to go in the future in order to ensure that the most important sections are also provided as priority in updating. Unfortunately, we also have to say that we have met that many sections have been included in the budget, but that they have led more to a neighbor's yard than have saved the population's transport mobility or access to economic centres, to employment, hospitals, schools and so on. I say that many times the funds in this area have been earmarked for less important investments, and the more important ones are obviously still waiting for something to happen to them. We must also make it very clear that the development axis is ahead of us and that these development axes are also a key element of the accessibility of the population, including those areas where European corridors are not taking place or the highway cross is not taking place. The procedure for putting these routes into space has come extremely, extremely far in this mandate, and we can really talk about investment starting on these axes as well. This is an important progress in transport policy and, last but not least, the specificisation of these investments in the Carorian or Velensko region is waiting only for a final decision whether to take account of the compromise or cleared version of the route that least affects agricultural land. And, of course, by confirming this, also at the Transport Committee's meeting that we are planning. In a very short time, we want to make a final decision on this procedure. This is not only important for mobility but also for the development of the economy and investment in this area. Finally, for the first time in history, we are talking about this, or we are faced with the fact that it is also at 3a. Development axis investments are under way to modernise or build the third runway in the region of Pijava Gorica to Turjak. Last but not least, the government has adopted a national spatial plan also for the full connection of Šmarje-Sap and an intensive update of the railway line against Kočev is also under way. Many of the problems we face in these updates are related to some of the foreign interests, whether this investment is yes or not, but not to the awareness that we need this investment in order to preserve the economic development and settlement of these areas. And if anyone is, this government has indeed made important decisions in this area. For Pomurje, where the highway was primarily built, the infrastructure is also a priority for the Pomurje area, which will enable the further economic development of Bela Krajina and Kočevska. These are all documents and acts, and not least the laws that this government has proposed for the adoption of the National Assembly. Some acts and decisions are adopted on their own, but they go in the direction that the most important transport links actually begin to take effect in practice. In the future, when each euro is likely to have to be counted, priorities will have to be set. And we must be aware, at least in my opinion, that the development axes are one of those future priorities in Slovenia and that it will also be necessary to adjust whether a third-class regional road will be able to receive greater updates or some secondary maintenance in order to achieve this important development potential that we have created and created by putting these routes into space. So I think that the fear of not being aware of the importance of transport infrastructure, both road and air transport, for Slovenia, is really superfluous. I think that also an extremely important decision regarding our national air carrier, in what way we want to solve this problem, shows that there is indeed an extraordinary amount of energy and concrete solutions that have been taken, and we really expect these solutions to be implemented in practice. So there is virtually no area in the field of transport policy that we would not try to recover or even encourage problems to be resolved faster than they were by yesterday. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u105	Thank you very much. Mr. Tinker Bell, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u106	Thank you very much. Even in my name a nice greeting to all present! In view of the budgetary documents proposed by the Pahor government in the last three years in this national assembly, it was not possible to expect a miracle from this rebalancing. It is also impossible to expect that the 2011 balance will save at least part of what results from the three-year imported policy of this ruling coalition. It seems that the only difference is that we have witnessed extraordinary support for these documents in the last two years in this National Assembly by SD, LDS, Zaresa and DeSUS Members, and today we see that not even Pahor's Members believe in these documents. The others were almost unfeeling in the debate, but among them were few who had somehow attached what we have on the table today. Of course, we have also heard voices about how this document is appropriate, how this country or this government works well, how well it works, and how it adopts the most optimal and most beneficial solutions. This is also supposed to be the 2011 budget rebalancing. If we look at the document and the numbers and look at it in the light of the situation we are in, of course, it is only necessary to admit that this balance will not change practically anything that would not have happened. We know that the implementation of the budget has, in some ways, been stopped in substance, that all those investments that should have been launched this year and which could have been carried out by the municipalities have been blocked in some way already in the middle of this year, contrary to official forecasts of how the state of unemployment is not critical, the funds for this instrument are almost doubling this year, with a little less than €200 million to over €300 million. However, regardless of the numbers, so much funding for unemployment should be an alarm for all economic policy planners, and in particular those preparing budgets for 2012, 2013 and the next, because the legacy they will receive will be a great mortgage and a great burden for the normal planning and design of government policies in the coming years. Of course, structurally, nothing changes. This 360 million, where revenue is falling and approximately the same amount of expenditure, does not change the underlying problems of the country's state finances. Deficiencies remain at approximately the same level. We are now moving into the fourth year, when this government is spending about 2 billion more annually than we create. We started with a deficit of about a billion 800 in 2009, and all these years we continue at about the same level or with the same numbers. And contrary to the words on rationalisation, savings have been set up during this period by new offices, new agencies, the number of employees in the public sector has increased, with fewer employees in the economy. The efficiency of both ministries and these public offices and agencies has not increased. Contrary to public forecasts that these ministries and offices will be shrinking, the number of employees as well as the number of these offices and agencies increasing bureaucracy has increased in no way. As a result of all of this and from all the unnecessary rentals of premises, it is normal for Slovenia to fall significantly faster than the average of the European Union in this recent period, from the semi-private affairs of individual ministers who cared more about their interests than the common public interest. If we have previously shared this fate of the euro area in such a way that we have grown faster than the average, and that we have been more successful, the picture is different in this last mandate, and the executive branch of power is fully responsible. Of course, in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we did not look at what was happening peacefully. Let me remind you that right at the end of 2008, when there were no appropriate measures by the Pahor government and by the ruling coalition, we prepared the first programme and presented it at the beginning of 2009 and then three or four more packages, all of which were rejected in a row. And in all these packages of measures there were quite a few things that you then took too late, too late. For this reason, Slovenia is in a much more difficult position than it would have been if appropriate decisions were taken at the right time and if government policy followed those basic maximums, that more should be created if we want to provide funds to all others who are dependent on it. Practically nothing has been done in this area. And here was a very important time of three years, which will be very, very difficult to make up for. As a result, the Slovenian Democratic Party felt responsible, irrespective of the fact that, as the largest opposition party, it has no possibility of influencing decision-making, and has taken a constructive approach to all those proposals that could move the train in the right direction. Unfortunately, we cannot take any responsibility in this rebalancing. And that is also why you must take this responsibility yourself, those who are responsible for this boat and for this wrong policy, which you have been leading for three years past proposals and guidance by the economic profession and the opposition, are responsible. As a result, take this decision tomorrow, when the vote is made, and also the burden of responsibility for it. Of course, the consequences of this decision will be borne by everyone, the whole of Slovenia, citizens and citizens, not only by this decision, but also by those who will have to make a change in the wrong direction of this government policy in the future. For the burden that we shall bear is very great, very difficult. Nevertheless, I think we are still at the point if this decision comes as soon as possible by rejecting inappropriate proposals next week on Tuesday, when we can point in the right direction at the right time. One more word about infrastructure, railways, taking over these debts and so on. I think that the policy pursued in the field of railways is the opposite of a policy that should not serve as an example. Debt can be taken over in such a way that it can be taken over in public debt, saved by everyone. In this mandate, over 130 million Slovenian railway debt was taken over in public debt. However, the confusion policy, which has been led in this and other areas, has caused those partners that could contribute to the modernisation of these infrastructures to flee. It was taken over in public debt by 250 million dugiosis in Nova Ljubljanska Banka, and this amount is likely to be renewed according to today's decision on 400 million recapitalisation. You took on Adrie Airways' debts. Apparently, we are waiting for you to take over Casino's debts; I think Slovenia is the only country where the casino can deal with loss. In short, there is almost no company, except for the few that could show normal business in this mandate. For the first time, due to the recruitment, political staffing you have done in these companies, and for the second time, because of the inadequate and confusing policy you have gone through various offices, agencies and others. One of the rare companies where you failed to replace management is the Post Office of Slovenia, which has also been operating for many years and also in your period with profits. In short, the situation in which Slovenia is today requires sober reflection. And this balance, which will not change anything, is not one worth losing a lot of energy and words because it is accepted or not, it will take place as it has been somehow planned and already adopted in other circles, and this Parliament will not have a significant impact on this decision. However, I think it would be very important for the rulings to realise that they do not have the right vision and the right direction for the future, and that they would therefore also make decisions for the next year and the next. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u107	Thank you very much. Ms Mateja Vraničnik, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance, has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u108	Thank you very much. True, time and circumstances require sobering decisions. However, sober decisions also require a clear presentation of information and clearly presented information. So let me be forgiven by those who have been in this room all day, so that some of the things I've said today will have to be repeated. The talk was that by stopping the implementation of the state budget, we stopped or blocked municipal investment. By temporarily suspending the implementation of the state budget, municipal budgets are not distorted in any way and individual municipalities implement their municipal budgets smoothly. I have already mentioned that the temporary limitation on the implementation of the State budget does not also constitute a retention or restriction in the implementation of European investments, nor does it limit the implementation of other urgent investments or the taking of other urgent obligations. The talk was about the excessive amount of funding we provide for the unemployed in order to focus or focus these resources on the provision of new jobs. We must not forget that, within the framework of the policy mentioned here, all active employment policy measures are implemented and that these increased funds also include an additional approximately 30 million resources to promote employment and self-employment, funds that were very quickly spent in the first period of this year due to an increase in the number of unemployed. So it is not only about providing compensation for the unemployed, but it is also about creating conditions for the unemployed to return to the framework of the active population. The talk was about increasing the number of employees in the public sector. We need to separate the public or public administration and the public sector as a whole. And if you look at the numbers – presented under the Law on Intervention Measures, which will be discussed under the next item – you will see that an increased number of employees appear in the field of education, child care, education, including higher education, and health care. And the last inaccuracies that I would like to draw attention to – taking over the debt and recapitalisation are two completely separate transactions with different consequences, and it is right that we also consistently separate them from each other in the debates. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u109	Thank you very much. If any other colleagues would like to discuss the general part of the budget, please apply. Mr. Jože Tanko, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. If I have correctly understood the Prime Minister in the introduction, then we have a strategic document ahead of us, it is a budget rebalance. And I don't actually see any strategist here on the government's side defending this document that would defend it. There is not a single minister to deal with the strategic document, which will be one of those key documents for presenting Europe, that Slovenia is taking certain measures. A key speaker in the defence of this document is a person who has been announced in the media as one of the potential candidates for one of the ministerial departments. This is a poor certificate of the Government's seriousness in considering this document. We have heard several times at the beginning of this mandate that this country can be led better. We see, we feel that this verbally seemed nice, but virtually things are going completely differently, completely on other tracks, and the results are also completely different. There is no country in Europe that has experienced such a fate in these three years as this country has. All countries have undergone a much better crisis, with worse predispositions, with worse conditions than Slovenia. And we can probably attach it here to all those who say that this government is not capable of solving this situation and that this government is not competitive with any government in this Europe. So that thought is necessary. We have recently heard this statement by the Prime Minister of the Government, who said that Slovenia is on track. Looking at the balance sheets as we look at the data, we find that Slovenia has fallen to 85.86% from 91% of the European Union's average development in this period. So, where does this good path lead us, which way? And it's been a good two years. Even when we look at what's going on in this country, all things actually go wrong. The government's commitment was to reduce employment in public administration by 1% per year. It is said that there should be around 3% of the workforce during this period. Data show that trends are going in the opposite direction. Employment is increasing by a percentage per year and there are 3% more people in the public administration during this period. 3% more. This is the only sector that employs in the cumulative is the cost part of the country. You're saying unemployment is falling. If we make more €120 million for the unemployed with a rebalance, then obviously we will raise unemployment benefits if unemployment falls, we will pay those who are in the institution better than those who are employed. We have spoken and taken some measures related to the removal of the credit crunch. We have adopted guarantee schemes, we have taken a series of measures in the area of bank recapitalisation or have taken this government, and so on. But even though the minister once said in June that the credit crunch was failing, the credit spasm still exists. Because of the inadequate investment structure of business banks, the economy cannot reach credits. Banks don't give credit. We have set up a special bank to give favourable loans, the AIDS, and things are still not working. This country has set up a special capital investment management agency, the so-called AUKN, so that policy does not interfere with the economy. The work of this agency is that, despite the fact that there is no capital investment management strategy, shares in companies are being sold, assets are being sold and invested from companies in the management of AUKN, in recapitalisation, such as the New Credit Bank of Maribor, and this is so embarrassing that the country loses its credibility. So when we talk about the responsibility of the state and state institutions, we cannot go beyond all of the awkwardness that is happening and all of these decisions, which do not have any legal basis in the documents that we should have. We do not have a capital investment management strategy, but we do have a ruling on the sale of the share of SIJ, for example. As a result, AUKN carried out the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor and so on. I wonder when you're all talking about having to respect the legal basis and so on, on the basis of what's going on, why these things aren't yet. You've talked a lot about candy, but you've given a lot of candy in this term, too. We gave them to socialists, you gave them to notaries, lawyers and so on, and you took 30 million taxes that were the revenue of the state budget to private companies. It was a reform of the land book. And since time is gone, all I have to find out is that this story about the success of the left three is very expensive. In addition to the current inflows we have in the budget, an additional €10 million is needed for daily survival. Probably because the country is dominated by silent brotherhoods.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u111	Thank you very much. Mr. Janko Weber has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u112	Thank you for your word. In addition to the findings we have heard from fellow SDS Members, however, it is also necessary to say that it is much easier to speak if they are in opposition and share solutions, but if we look at what these solutions, which were also presented in this mandate, would bring about, it is clear from this record that the deficit from 6% of the gross social product in 2009 would increase to 11.6%, meaning that they would have a higher deficit than Portugal, which has 10.1% of the gross social product, and slightly lower than Greece, which is 15.4% of the gross social product. Indeed, what has been the case with these SDS proposals during this period? You proposed a reduction of taxes, but you did not propose a reduction of expenditure, public spending. And this breakthrough is the one that inevitably leads to an extremely critical deficit that can take us very quickly into the waters where Greece and some other countries are now. Even if we look at the tax reform you have adopted in the previous mandate, we can see that you have reduced taxes but not reduced spending again. You have even increased public spending by some laws, making it now more than 80% of the burden of public finances with already adopted legislative measures, many of which have been adopted in the previous mandate. If we just look at those tax reliefs you took when you ruled, they now have the effect of contributing to the debt from 2009 to 2011 2 billion 153 million 260 thousand euros. So this is an extremely frightening figure, an amount that proves that it is significantly harder to rule than to be in opposition. However, I would like to say that, at the time of this extremely strong economic growth, you really did not think about reducing costs. The pay reform itself has brought a lot of unforeseen costs, which have shown to what extent you have burdened public finances only when this law has started to apply in practice. Therefore, there have not been measures designed, particularly in the direction of reducing public spending, and so in today's time, when every euro really needs to be moved and reconsidered twice, three times before putting it somewhere, we need to adopt a rebalancing to achieve the internal self-confidence we need in order to prove that we still have stable public finances and that we are still a serious partner in all of this euro area. Many missed investments and decisions from the previous period – if we look at just how much you were willing to devote to the defence, how much funds have gone to that end in the previous period, we find today that, in fact, we can still carry out important tasks that we have also undertaken by entering NATO by substantially lower resources. But, however, a lot of resources have been earmarked for areas that are not returned today as value added, but just as a cost. And we are also paying the price for this in these circumstances, so just to say that all these obligations, that all these problems have occurred in these two years, are the least that is, in a mild sense incorrect, but I think we need to make it very clear that if someone, this government, is extremely aware of them and is also trying to solve them. I think we are one of the few countries in this situation, yet we have maintained the high level of social security of our people. Perhaps this was also the reason why, on many occasions, the referendums also decided against the measures proposed, since the consequences of this crisis obviously did not reach each individual so that everyone could think more clearly together. Last but not least, if we are honest, just from this building, from our discussions, we are drawing up a public opinion, and I hope to say that when we proposed measures both in the field of work and in the area of pension reform, you were significantly louder than everyone else. And, of course, it is extremely difficult to give reasoned answers to all claims. It's much easier to say that it's all bad, and then somebody else can explain why it's not. So, in my opinion, in this mandate, we should take decisions with a much more responsible role both the opposition and the coalition, because everything that has been forced either because of the interest of one political party or the interest of someone else who tried to enforce it through the adoption of certain rules is now showing worse consequences than if we lived in some major economic growth, because of course this can be concealed. Today's decisions are reflected primarily in the budget, and if these are bad, of course this result is significantly more drastic than it was yesterday, when the government could do practically anything, but economic growth was so strong that it was not even possible to detect it. So if there is anything, this rebalance is certainly a picture of all these events, I hope to say also timely sobriety, and a contribution to a more constructive solution to the challenges ahead of Slovenia in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u113	Thank you very much. I ask whether anyone else would like to discuss the general part of the budget rebalancing proposal. [[He doesn't want to.]] Then I conclude the debate on the general part of the budget rebalancing. We will vote on it tomorrow in the framework of the vote. We are moving on to the specific part of the budget rebalancing proposal. I'm asking my colleagues if anyone wants to discuss it. [[He doesn't want to.]] I conclude the debate on the specific part of the draft budget rebalancing proposal. We will vote on it tomorrow in the course of the vote. We are moving on to the consideration of the development programme plan. I ask if anyone wants to discuss the development agenda plan. [[He doesn't want to.]] I'm closing the debate, am I? [[...]] Here you go, Mr. Zerjav, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u114	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Maybe I raised my hand too late for a second. I want to discuss it. I want to discuss the topic locally, but given that this is an extremely important topic for Pomurje, but a sentence or two. In fact, about the water supply of Pomurje with healthy drinking water. Why am I answering this subject? Because of the extraordinary meeting of the Council of the Murska Sobota of the Pomurje Development Region, where the Minister for Environment and Space was present, and at which we discussed this project, which we have been discussing for ten years in Pomurje. Ten years. The heated debate was on this subject and on my question. Given that a rebalancing had already been prepared at the time, I asked the Minister how much funding was foreseen for the project. In fact, it depends on whether or not the project is going to run. The Minister escaped in every way he could, and he didn't finally say what the financial means were. And now I understand why he didn't say it. Because one system of this water supply – namely, the three are divided into three subsystems – has simply fallen out of the NRP of these three systems and consequently out of the budget for this year. This seems irresponsible to me, given that this is also one of the projects that is part of the development aid law to Pomurje. And it seems to me that this should simply not be happening even if these 270 000 euros, as many as were on this item, were not spent by the end of the year. Here, of course, the item was reduced and for this sum is probably somewhere else the item was raised. So I began to think slowly in this direction, because there was also a lot of talk about lowering those items that were known to be spending that we would not spend more with this balance that we are dealing with today than we did with leaving the matter the way it was. If we knew that there would be no spending on some items, we now let fictitious consumption go somewhere else. What did we do? We're actually going to spend more. And by the way, that's what I've heard from someone in government circles. Nothing else, I just want to say it out loud and protest ways like this. On the one hand, words are spoken and well spoken, and then in the NRPs, which is the question of how Members are studied and reviewed, is simply a matter of omission. You're putting in an amendment. The amendment, of course, stumbles because it's a practice, but that's not how it's done. Ten years, ten years of talking about the water supply project of Pomurje with healthy drinking water. People in Goricki don't have healthy drinking water. We are negotiating ten years, different mandates, different ministers and so on. Things just don't go any further. And then the flowers grow. It's not fair and it's not right.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u115	Thank you very much. I ask if anyone else wants to discuss the development agenda plan. [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the Development Programme Plan will take place on Friday, 16th, in accordance with the timing of the meeting. 9, in the framework of the votes. We are moving on to a full debate on the proposal for a budget rebalancing. Does anyone want to discuss it? [[He doesn't want to.]] Since no one wants to discuss it anymore, I conclude the debate. The vote on the proposal for a budget rebalancing will take place in full accordance with the meeting's timetable on Friday, 16. 9, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 2. On the day-to-day basis, this is to the contrary a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law on intervention within the framework of an urgent procedure. The draft law was tabled by the Government. In order to further explain the proposal, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u116	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! With the proposed law, we want to reduce the risk of public finances stability in the period of the financial crisis, and the proposed measures will allow public financial deficits to not increase in 2011 and 2012. The main solution contained in the law relates to the determination of the obligation on the whole public sector to ensure that, in the implementation of all human resources procedures — employment, promotion, relocation — funds for salaries are treated so as not to create deficits and to limit employment by reducing the number of employees within two years of the implementation of this law to the same extent as in December 2010. In the current legislative procedure, the law has undergone some fundamental changes, but the objectives remain unchanged. The second article of the bill contains additions to the current law with new Articles 9.a and 9.b. Article 9a lays down the conditions under which employment is permissible for users of the budget. The budget user may, under the proposed provision, hire one public servant if the working relationship for an indefinite period of time has previously ceased for two public servants. Employment is also possible when it comes to the acquisition of public servants resulting from the transfer of tasks and even if it is temporary employment due to the long-term absence of public servants. In all other cases, employment is only possible on the basis of consensus. The law also lays down the conditions for obtaining the latter and the entities responsible for issuing the consent. The proposed Article 3 supplementing Article 10 of the current Law on Intervention Measures provides that in 2011 the municipalities shall not be paid in full the co-financing of investments belonging to them in accordance with the law governing the financing of municipalities. This is a small proportion of investment transfers to municipalities, and in this case half of the funds will be paid in this year and the other half by the end of March 2012. However, in 2011, funds are being paid to municipalities to ensure their own participation in projects financed from European funds and for multi-annual projects where co-financing contracts were signed before 31 December 2010, but only if the municipality has to settle its multi-annual project obligations in this year. The draft law further commands that users of the budget who need to obtain an agreement on employment in accordance with Article 9a of this Law must immediately suspend all the procedures for employment initiated, except for those for which prior consent has already been obtained. In view of the objectives pursued by the law, in view of the purpose and in view of the measures that we consider appropriate and necessary in this situation, we propose that the proposal for a law be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u117	Thank you very much. The draft law was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent labour force. In order to present the report of the Committee, I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Čepić, President.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u118	Mr President, nice greetings from the Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy shall be held in the framework of the 47th urgent meeting of 13. 9. In 2011, the draft Law amending and supplementing the Law on Interventions submitted to the National Assembly by the Government with a proposal for the adoption of an emergency procedure pursuant to Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, approved by the College of the President of the National Assembly at its meeting on 31. 8. 2011. Six local communities, the Community of the municipalities of Slovenia, the Association of the municipalities of Slovenia and the Council of the Court of Justice referred to the marriage text. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legislative and Legal Service of the National Assembly with specific comments to Article 2 or to all three articles of the added texts for the new Articles 9.a, 9.b and 9.c and Articles 3, 5 and 6 of the legislative proposal. The amendment to Article 2 was tabled by the Committee of the National Assembly for Local Self-Government and Regional Development as an interested working body among qualified candidates. In addition to that supplement, the Committee considered the proposals for amendments to the Committee by Articles 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 which, taking due account of the opinion of the Legal and Legislative Service, were prepared by the Ministry of Finance. In an additional explanation, he added at the beginning of the second reading of the individual articles of the draft law at the meeting of the Committee, the Minister responsible for Finance stressed that the purpose of the text presented was to firstly reduce the risk to the stability of public finances in the current stage of the financial crisis, particularly in 2011 and 2012, when the budget balance and certain measures were to be implemented in 2012. Thus, according to the Government's assessment, the proposed measures in 2011 and 2012 will allow the government's deficit not to increase. On the basis of the proposed solution, two areas are addressed, namely the restriction on public sector employment, which is to apply for 2011 and 2012, pending the adoption of a comprehensive programme of savings and measures for the public sector, and is being prepared by the Government, as well as the limitation of expenditure on the payment of investment transfers to municipalities in 2011, by providing for investments co-financed by the European Union and for which municipalities need funds for their own participation. And for investments that are multi-annual and have already agreed on and defined obligations in contracts in 2011, funds shall also be provided if works have been carried out. Extensive explanations were provided by the president of the Local Self-Government and Regional Development Committee in the discussion between the other debates, both as regards the comprehensive debate on that committee and the amendment tabled in Article 4. Then the representative of the Confederation of Public Sector Trade Unions, referring to the effects of the envisaged solutions, pointed out that the National Assembly had taken decisions resulting in an increase in employment in the public sector, stressing the decision of the previous Government that the other child had free care in kindergarten, which consequently meant that the number of departments in kindergartens had increased significantly and that sufficient adequate staff had to be provided, resulting in a significant increase in the number of public servants in the area of pre-school education. Of course, public officials cannot be responsible for such decisions. The representative of the State-sector trade union negotiating group pointed out that there has already been a reduction in the number of employees in the state sector. A further reduction will only be possible when a better organisation of work is in place and, as a result, the relevant work effects are ensured, which have not yet been ensured by practices and measures. The discussion of the members of the Committee on the consideration of the individual articles of the proposed text was mainly focused on the amendment of the interested working body, which envisaged a 4 % reduction in the salaries of public sector employees. Neither the members of the Committee nor the invited members expressed their support for the proposal to reduce wages, while aware that this cost will have to be reduced in the future. While other proposals in addition to the Law on Intervention Measures, discussers on behalf of sent groups or on their behalf on individual measures have been given both arguments for and against. In its consideration of the individual articles, the Committee, pursuant to Article 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the National Assembly, drafted and adopted amendments to Articles 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 of the legislative proposal. As the Committee adopted its amendment to Article 2, the amendment to Article 2 of the Committee on Local Self-Government and Regional Development became irrelevant. At the same time, under Rule 128 of the Rules of Procedure, the Committee voted on and adopted the articles of the bill. In the light of the amendments adopted, the text of the amended law, which you received together with the report, has been prepared on the basis of Article 133(1) of the Rules of Procedure of the General Assembly.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u119	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Bogdan Čepič will present his position on behalf of the Group of Social Democrats.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u120	Thanks again for saying that. As the financial and economic crisis deepens, the pressure on public finances increases. Public financial aggregate projections show that the problems in public finances are not only transient but also structural in nature. Maintaining high deficits will increase the long-term sustainability of public finances. The Government’s main focus on short-term measures is to make the adjustment to the bad economic situation as far as possible by reducing public financial expenditure. By implementing the mechanism for coordinating social compensation and support for inflation twice a year and valorisation of pensions, the proportion of these expenditure has increased significantly, mainly due to an increase in the number of recipients of these funds. In addition to the growth in the number of pensioners, the increased share of pension expenditure was mainly affected by faster wage growth and productivity growth. It also increases the pressure on public cash registers by spending on public servants' salaries, mainly due to an increase in the number of employees in the public sector, not due to the level or increase in wages. In 2011, an agreement was reached with representative public sector unions and an annex No 4h of the public sector collective contract was concluded to limit the volume of wage funds. Without this agreement, the pressure on salaries in the public sector would be even greater. With salaries and their level in the public sector, which are completely comparable to the real sector for the same or similar jobs, it is regrettable that the measure of halting employment or reducing it in the public sector is the only possible measure left for the Government to stop the growth of fixed expenditure on public servants' salaries. No government has been able to stop employment growth in the public sector, nor has this government. But the previous government has also employed more than 6,000 civil servants in its mandate. I could say that this government has been more successful in this area; the number of public servants has increased by less than 3,000. In doing so, it should be stressed that public services, such as education, child care, social services and health care, have increased in particular. In the public administration sector, the number of employees has decreased. Although, at the end of her term of office, the previous government employed a number of ten civil servants or changed their working relationship indefinitely. This is supposed to happen at one of the last government meetings just before the end of the term, with the political loyalty of the then political elite being an important criterion, as reported by at least one of the media at the time. The current increase in public sector employees also has reason to believe that the measures taken by the former government's pre-election measures, which proposed a free kindergarten for another child, have not been provided with funds for these measures. The second part of the need for employment in the service sector is certainly also in increasing the number of departments in education, increasing the number of homes for the elderly, as they also needed to be complemented by staff. And last but not least, we remember the great shortage of health personnel. That is why we have adopted legislation in this National Assembly that would even facilitate the arrival of doctors from other countries, not just European countries – all because of the great flaw in this area. Public sector costs cannot be reduced only by a percentage reduction measure. Public sector reform will need to be implemented in all areas, from work organisation, organisation and regulatory changes. There will also be a need to change employment policy and to make employment in the public sector better paid, but also more flexible. For most employees in the public sector, this does not mean a better salary, which is completely comparable to the real sector, but only that it will pay each month at the same date and that employment is much safer, more permanent. The proposed amendments to the law aim to reduce the risk to the stability of public finances during the financial crisis. The proposed measures will allow the public deficit not to increase in 2011 and 2012. A key problem – this must be faced by fiscal policy in the next period – is how to reduce public funding. In view of the current state of public finances, fiscal adjustment, despite the difficult long-term implementation, will largely be based on restructuring and a gradual reduction in budgetary and overall public expenditure. The revenue side will increase gradually over the next two years, and this will be quite limited. In the State budget, wages and social transfers represent a good half of all expenditure. The absence of contributions due to the increase in unemployment, lower wages and non-equity, and the current mode of coordination of pensions, however, require additional transfers from the State budget. Taking into account the fact that the revenue of the budget is decreasing and the expenditure is increasing, and given that the state does not have reserves, there is also an increase in the debt in the face of a higher government deficit, so in 2011 and 2012, it is necessary to adjust the way in which the State's commitment is determined so that the pressure on the increase of the public financial deficit will increase as much as possible, and this objective is also followed by the proposed measures in this law, which allow the deficit to remain on the envisaged 4.6% of GDP. For all of this, the Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u121	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Zvonko Černač will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u122	All in attendance, all in attendance! We did not support the Law of Interventions in the Slovenian Democratic Party's Group. Even less, we support the amendment of this law that we have on our hands today. We have not supported the law in particular because the government has done nothing to reduce and limit public spending by reducing unnecessary costs. It has done nothing to limit public spending by reducing unnecessary rents, by abolishing unnecessary offices and agencies. It has done nothing to reduce public spending through better and more efficient public property management. It has done nothing to reduce public spending by creating conditions for recovery and raising economic growth. Therefore, nothing has been done on the revenue side and as a result nothing has been done on the increase in budgetary revenue. On the contrary, in the last term we have witnessed the establishment of new and new offices and agencies, we have witnessed the increase in employment, the wealth of public administration, which costs us more and more. In this country, the number of employees in public administration has doubled over the last 20 years and we can be sure that the quality and efficiency of services have not been followed or are not twice as good as they were 20 years ago. By means of the intervention law, the Government has passed the increased costs for the functioning of state bureaucracy to those who have the least, and has cut the least in the case of those with the lowest remuneration. On the other hand, investment funds have been reduced, which are always the generator of new economic growth. The new intervention law, which we're going to decide tomorrow, interferes in two areas. The first is an administrative restriction on employment, which is intended to prevent or freeze employment in the public administration and is aware of five exceptions. The second is a further reduction or delay in the use of funds to municipalities for projects already under way and on which the competent ministries have concluded that they can be implemented and co-financed, already issued in this year. Both are administrative measures that will in no way help to limit public spending and will in no way contribute to the recovery of public finances. On the contrary, the rigid structure of employees in the state administration will be even more rigid. In addition, the Government, as I mentioned earlier, is two-faced in this area. First of all, through the unnecessary establishment of offices and agencies, it has increased employment, and now I would like to suspend or freeze it administratively, while allowing for five exceptions that are such as to prevent any good purpose in this area. They will increase administration, red tape will have a little more work to do on the basis of the circumstances why additional employment is needed, and when appropriate agreement is given, this employment will take place as it has been in the last three years. The real measure would be to reduce the number of offices and agencies, reduce the number of ministries and gradually optimise the functioning of the state administration and the public sector as a whole. The second measure, which reduces funds to municipalities for investments, is a measure which relates to a few ten million euro of investment funds, for which the conclusions have already been issued and most of these investments are already under way, for several months in 2012. So, what are we going to witness in 2012, the re-appointment in 2013 and 2014 or what are we going to do? This is therefore a completely administrative measure similar to that of Gaspari when he was a finance minister and extended the financial year on the revenue side for one month to 13 months and the expenditure remained at 12 months. This administrative measure will cause a number of problems in the municipalities which are already carrying out these investments. I can’t imagine a congregation or mayor who, for six months, would stop, say, building a school and convincing students and teachers on September 1st next year to wait half a year to move into new places. Naturally, all these investments will have to take place. The municipalities didn't have the funds planned because they were accounted for. So the confusion is perfect. With this amendment of the intervention law, the Government somehow symbolically shows that it does not have the appropriate policy to cut or cut off from those where it cannot be saved, that it lacks vision, and that if we really want to recover public finances and limit public spending, it should be cut down in a different way. Of course, we will not support this novel in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u123	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Golobič will present his position on behalf of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u124	Dear Mr President, colleagues and colleagues, Madam Secretary of State! Today we're talking about a law from which the government obviously raised its hands. I apologize, but it was expected that there would be a government president, a finance minister and someone else in the presence of the law, which was an intervention that was dealt with under urgent procedure. The fact that he's gone confirms what I said in the first place, but there are some things that need to be said. Not so much on the content of the law itself as on the circumstances that have led to this law and, of course, to the fact that its proponents today are not even willing to defend it. As soon as the 2009 draft budget was drawn up, the Government, immediately after the date of its term of office, established on a proposal from the Minister of Finance, an indicative amount of appropriations for the eligible expenditure on public sector work. That was about €4 billion. In the narrower sector, a country directly financed from the budget – about €1.2 billion of this funding is earmarked for this – employs about 50,000 public servants. In the other part, which is also financed from the budget, through transfers of public institutions and similar or other cash registers, health, pension – there goes around €3.8 billion – and there are some 115 000 public employees. The cost of work consists of two elements, an individual salary, its height and the remuneration of an individual public servant and the number of recipients. In the stability programme, the Government, on behalf of the State of Slovenia, has therefore informed the European Commission for three years that the level of labour costs in the public sector will remain unchanged. Therefore, already in January 2009, at the proposal of the then Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs, it established logical starting points, starting points for negotiations with trade unions on individual remuneration of public servants, and concluded that the number of employees should not be increased. By selectively replacing those who leave the public sector for retirement or for the private sector – about 2 000 500 are such in the public sector per year – the number of employees per year should be reduced by one percent, by about one thousand 650 public servants per year. This would increase efficiency, and this does not necessarily mean non-replacement. Trade unions have continued to agree with such a measure since 2009. It's been like this three times. It has been demonstrated in the case of administrative units that such careful non-replacement can be reduced by 5 % over two and a half years, without forgiveness and with new tasks assigned to it. However, in the preparation of the government's first human resources plans in 2009, the Minister of Interior and Defence, irrespective of the stability programme and the Government's decision on employment under the auspices of the Prime Minister of the Government, granted privileges, a permit for substantial additional employment. Despite repeated warnings by Minister Krebs, the Ministry of Defence already hired 500 additional soldiers in 2009, and the joint police plan increased by 300 new police officers. Such discharges also meant that infringements were permissible for individual other departments, as was the case. This is evidenced by the numbers in the explanation of the law itself. It is clear from the table of Umarje that individual salaries on the basis of three trade union agreements stand or are actually lower. The amount of resources for labour costs, however, rises by around EUR 100 million per year due to around 600 more employees than the government's commitment. In doing so, all the privileged ministers from the Reserves of the Ministry of Finance received additional remuneration each year in October. And this year's balance is like this. In particular the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Education. Warnings at government meetings were unsuccessful. In January, as a coalition party to the President, we addressed a written request to take action and to ensure that public sector employment decisions are implemented in a consistent manner. We are already in October 2011 and the number of new jobs is even higher this year. The intervention law is substantially too late for 2011 and therefore there is no reason for adoption under the emergency procedure with effects in 2011. Sadly, this law is merely a mirror of consistently inconsistent conduct or abandonment of duty. Therefore, the Group of Members cannot really support such a law, and in this way, it has already expressed its distrust of the President of the Government this week.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u125	Thank you very much. Mr Janez Ribič will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u126	Your Honor! Allow me to begin by mentioning some of the measures taken by other countries across Europe in the public sector. These are data, more than a year old and are also mentioned in the marriage proposal. Bulgaria: 15% reduction in the number of employees in the public sector, 10% reduction in the salaries of public servants. Estonia: a reduction in the number of employees in public administration by more than 10 %. Italy: Prohibition of public sector employment pending the implementation of the envisaged savings for each body. Germany: By 2014, the number of government officials will be reduced by more than 10 000. Latvia: reduction in the number of public sector employees by 30%, reduction in the number of state agencies from 76 to 25. And so on, I don't keep listing. With this reference, we want to show in the Slovenian People's Party how serious and how rigorous they have gone elsewhere. The aim of the law, which we adopt only today, by the end of 2011, is, to quote, to maintain the level of expenditure at the 2010 level and to enable the implementation of the budget in 2011. So it's not even a savings law, it's a fire marriage in terms of "when it really doesn't work anymore, but we're only going to save so much to survive through the year." While the law is binding on the state of December 2010, only in the first half of this year have you hired more than 2,000 new civil servants. We have been hearing discussions lately about whether we have too many or even less public servants than the average in Europe. However, this information, such as the comparison with other European countries, is not, after all, important. The most important fact that we have to worry about is that we have problems financially maintaining this system, we have an arrangement that the Slovenian economy can no longer bear, it simply cannot maintain employees in the real sector anymore. In order to maintain such a system, we also have one of the highest tax burdens on work or wages in the world, it suffers greatly from the competitiveness of the economy and we are forced to observe how the best technology companies leave Slovenia because of the unfriendly business environment. We must be aware that these 60,000 jobs that we have lost over the past few years do not create any more and not a full budget, so we need more concrete, more radical cuts. The mass of all salaries in the public sector consists of two variables; one is the level of wages and the other is the number of employees. We are confident that in the future we will have to face this second variable in particular, i.e. the number of employees. Only a general and linear reduction of salaries to public servants every few months gives some sense of equality and fairness, but, as it is said, we will have to face the problem in a less popular way, by reducing the number of employees, because the public sector is not at the level of wages, but in its effectiveness in terms of available financial resources. We also note in the Slovenian People's Party that the reasons for some types of employment are not even touched by this proposal and cannot be addressed as such. Unless we reach out to certain regulations and legal provisions, how can we then require a ban on employment in places that are legally defined. Of course, with all the possible exceptions contained in the law, there will still be employment in these places, it will only take a little more bureaucracy not to say a little more about the ingenuity of those who will give their consent for new jobs. Members of the Slovenian People's Party will support this proposal for intervention because we have already requested an entire budget intervention and we want to remain consistent in our efforts. Although we fear that the effects of the law will be very modest because of the proposal's indecisiveness, progress has already begun to think in the right direction and that at least it will try to be wasted within the means available. In this government mandate, we have also learned to think in the Slovenian People's Party in the context of "something better than nothing". However, I hope that you are aware that this change in legislation does not solve the public sector financing issue by any means. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u127	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Mr Matjaž Zanoškar will present his position. [[He's not here.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u128	Good evening again to colleagues and colleagues, with all due respect to the Secretary of State! As the Styrians say, it's not easy for us. But we're gonna make it through this. It is important to mention the title of the law, which is a proposal for a law amending and supplementing the law. In fact, the address is important because it says it's not the first law. And if we are very precise, this country and this government have for some time been interfering with the salaries of public servants who, according to the latest data, are seriously falling. So it is fair to say that there are already six or seven austerity measures in public service, seven of us. It is also important to ask at the time of consideration of this law who are public servants. This is not just recent unpopular officials, civil servants in the National Assembly, the municipal administration. These are health, education, education, military and police personnel. And writing about limiting employment is just so not good and not smart. We cannot say that teachers will not be employed if the number of children increases. We can't say that we won't have an army in case something happens that threatens our national security. We can't say we won't hire cops if something like this happens that we need them. However, medical nurses and doctors are already lacking in one way or another. Let me come back. In 2009, it was the first intervention with the Law on Intervention Measures due to the economic crisis. He followed the Law on the Temporary Reduction of Employees' Wages. The third was followed by the 2010 Interventions Act. Then they followed the annexes to the public sector collective agreement, annex 1, annex 2, and also annex 4. It is estimated that this account is already being saved, I am speaking without a 4% reduction in salaries for officials, almost 700 million if not another euro. We must be so honest in behalf of all public servants. The law states that it is intended to impose restrictions on the conclusion of copyright and business contracts with public sector employees and to limit the cost of co-financing the investments of municipalities. The final diction is very dangerous, very dangerous. Those who live and work in the congregation know that. In doing so, I would like to remind – at least in the Slovenian National Party for many years personally – that we do not respect the law establishing municipalities and we have almost a hundred municipalities that do not comply with the legal provisions, in which, if you add up, there are a few thousand people employed. If we started to respect this law at the time, we wouldn't have 211 municipalities and so many and so many thousands of added employees and so many and so many thousands of saints, but for all there are, of course, the costs that this country pays. And at the end of the day, we pay direct payments, we give credit, specifically to Greece, in which there is a much higher number of public servants than we do with a much higher salary than we do. At home, we take our people and we want to disable their employment. From this point of view, because many things have already happened, and because I think it is right that we must first clear ourselves with what we have, and then elsewhere, in the Slovenian National Party, this proposal for a law amending the law we oppose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u129	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, Mr Willi Rezman will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. President. Let me mention for the introduction that if we miss our grades and if we are planning a bad or even a mistake, we need to fix it later. If the planned work fails, when it no longer goes normally when crisis interventions are needed, we usually say that these are intervention measures. If and when the coalition and the government are unable to carry out their commitments and decisions, so when they fall to the exam, they are going to the public servants' correctional exam. In our case, a little earlier than the government and the coalition, which will try to make the correction only on Tuesday, but we will first confirm this law – or not, of course. Even when it comes to intervention measures, in our Group we judge at least the majority that it would be good to try to coordinate with those most affected by these measures. There was no sufficient and adequate coordination in limiting employment. Nor does it extend the co-financing of municipal investments. When asked to do so, the immediate reduction of salaries in the public sector did not; the government said it did not know anything about it. Believe me, whoever wants to. We're not all ready to believe that. There are some concerns about the substantive measures also within our parliamentary group, but it is clear that the amendments proposed and adopted by the Committee will, however, give support to the changes. But not all of us, but we don't all support it. In particular, we cannot support the fact that it wanted and wanted to reduce salaries immediately in the public sector after we have to admit something – that people did not simply come to kindergartens, schools, health homes, hospitals, the police, the military and say, "We are here, a new cost, count on us." They were invited there, they made contracts. And on the basis of these invitations, contracts, job systemisations, they have also made projections about their lives, at least for a certain period of time of the future, which some would now just like to tear down. Not all of them can do this, especially because they claim to have been employed in the public sector, i.e. workers, including those who have contributed to reducing our crisis situation. And public servants do not all have the same roles, equal positions, equal responsibilities and not all individual contracts. That is why it seems as if this is a general attack on the public sector and its employees of a type of diphthema; we would like to stigmatise them as such. If I get a little tighter, I'm just waiting for when we're going to order that they have to wear a ribbon on their hands or be marked with some other sign, so that they know who they are that cause unnecessary costs and ruin our lives. So we all disagree with this way of handling our problems. This does not mean that we want to defend irrational organisation, poor efficiency, poor quality of work, but it means that this needs to be planned, coordinated and implemented within a slightly longer and agreed period. In particular, we are against the hypocrisy that has arisen when they are and some are still shouting against the public sector and employees in it, but they represent the interests of those who have either not paid their salaries in time or have not paid them at all, either have not paid taxes and contributions and are not prepared for any [[Incomprehensible]] in itself, when it is necessary to set high wages and high rewards. This amendment will not be attended by all the votes of our Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u131	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. Since no amendments have been tabled to the draft law, I am concluding a second reading of the bill. The decision on the bill will take place on Friday, 16th, in accordance with the time frame of the meeting. 9. 2011, in the context of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 3. On the basis of the information provided by the Commission, the Commission considers that the aid granted to the State is compatible with the internal market and that it is compatible with the internal market and is compatible with the internal market. The proposal for a decree was submitted by the Government for consideration by the assembly. I give the floor to the representative of the Government for further explanation of the motion for a decree. On behalf of the Government, I give the floor to Mrs Matei Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u132	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of Parliament! Under the Capital Investment Management Act of the Republic of Slovenia, a transitional period is currently in force since the strategy and annual capital investment management plan have not yet been adopted. In accordance with the arrangements for this transitional period, the Government shall propose to the National Assembly for the adoption of the Proposal for a Decree supplementing the Regulation on the scheme for the sale of state-owned assets for 2010 and 2011. The decree is supplemented by investments for which the ministries of interest have assessed that their placement in the decree is justified and reasonable, and also includes those companies where the Republic of Slovenia has a share acquired under the GEF project Removing barriers to increased biomass use as an energy source. Slovenia has undertaken to sell its share in these companies through an option offer that runs in individual companies until the end of 2011. It should be pointed out that the inclusion of an individual investment in a proposal for a decree does not mean the automatic sale of that investment, but rather constitutes a legal basis which allows the sales procedures to begin at all. For the sale of an individual investment, it is necessary to appoint a commission that prepares an individual sales programme to identify the reasons for the sale and the objectives that are to be achieved by sale, and the methods or means of sale that will achieve these objectives. The methods and procedures for the sale of capital investments must be set in such a way as to enable the simultaneous achievement of key sales targets, which are, in addition to maximising the selling price and thus the budgetary revenues, the establishment of a ownership structure that will ensure effective management and competitiveness and successful development in the long term. From a budgetary point of view, the purpose of the sale of those capital investments is to achieve the highest possible purchase, which represents the liquidity revenue of the budget. The sale of individual types of capital investments also needs to ensure the wider macroeconomic interests of the country, namely sustainable and stable economic growth, improving the quality of public services and ensuring a more efficient and competitive economic system. The Decree is therefore intended to allow the initiation of procedures for the sale of certain investments, which are named in the decree itself. In the light of all the above, we propose to the National Assembly that the proposal be adopted by a decree. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u133	Thank you very much. The motion for a decree was treated by the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy as a parent working body. I give the floor to Mr Bogdan Čepić, Chairman of the Committee, to present the report of the Committee.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u134	Thank you for your word. The Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy is at its 47th emergency meeting. 9. In 2011, the Government submitted a proposal for a regulation supplementing the Regulation on the scheme for the sale of state-owned assets for 2010 and 2011, pursuant to Article 11 of the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on the Management of Capital Investments of the Republic of Slovenia. The Committee was given an opinion by the Legal and Legislative Service, which examined the proposed decision in terms of its compliance with the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia, the legal system and the technical and regulatory aspects. No comments were made by the Legislative and Legal Service on the motion for a decree. No amendments were tabled to the motion for a ruling within the time limit. In the debate, opposition Members stressed the doubts about the value of the sale of the Slovenian steel industry because the company was profitable. It has also been pointed out that the Government must explain how this investment differs from other investments in which the Government retained 25% plus one share. In the debate, the representatives of the opposition stressed that the proposal to adopt this decision in the context of the adoption of the balance sheet was being made because the revenues from the sale of these investments would be the revenue of the state budget. The opposition's representatives also stressed that they are skeptical of the decision on the sale of assets because the capital investment management strategy is not yet in place. All of this raises the question of who even manages capital investments. Representatives of the Government further explained in the debate that the sectoral ministries are preparing sectoral policies and sectoral policies have not been fully included in the draft strategy. There is also no agreement in the Government on the content of the capital investment strategy. The Minister explained that there is a need for a different treatment of capital investments in terms of determining the country's strategic stake at 25 plus one share in enterprises where ownership is dispersed from enterprises where it is already a majority owner and the country is locked in minority ownership. It is also necessary to decide on the sale of the Slovenian steel industry because the option contract at a predetermined price falls at the end of 2011. The debate raised the issue of the relevance of the sale of Nafte Lendava by the opposition. As no amendments have been adopted to the draft decree on the working body, the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy of the National Assembly proposes that the Proposal for a Decree supplementing the Regulation on the scheme for the sale of national financial assets for 2010 and 2011 be adopted in the proposed text.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u135	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party, Mr Rado Likar will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Nice greeting again in my name! In addition to the proposal for a rebalancing of the budget of the Republic of Slovenia for 2011 and the proposal for a law amending and supplementing the Law on Intervention Measures, it is the last in a series of laws by which the Government of the Republic of Slovenia wants to consolidate our public finances, which it does not do well. On the Finance Committee it was said that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia had the possibility, in accordance with the Capital Investment Management Act, to submit to the National Council, until it had a capital investment management strategy, a proposal for amendments to the Ordinance on the sale of State assets. Thus, we have in the decree a supplementary list of companies which the Republic of Slovenia intends to sell. In addition to the shares in companies that have received funds under the Biomass Exploitation Facility, companies proposed by AUKN are also listed because of their low share, in their view, they do not have the possibility of actively managing these companies. Thus, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia intends to sell a 100 % share in Lendava Nafta, where the book value of the share is 31. 12. 2010 EUR 22.8 million, plus a control rate of 25% plus one share in the Slovenian steel industry, is the book value of the share per day 31. 12. 2010 €39.4 million. We will not support such a proposal in the Slovenian Democratic Party, as we are still waiting for the promised capital investment management strategy in the Republic of Slovenia. The government has proposed a change of decree precisely because there is no strategy, and it appears that it will not be for a long time. On the other hand, there are no companies on the list that should have been, since ownership in these companies has not proved necessarily to be an effective management. It is this government that has decided on a different concept of governance, the essence of which is a strategy that is not yet in place to date. And as long as it's not there, it can be shown that such sales will not be successful from an economic and financial point of view. In view of all the proposed amendments to the decree on the sale programme of state assets in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we will not support it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u137	Thank you very much. Mr Gregor Golobič will present the position of the Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u138	Thank you very much. Very short. This document, this proposal for a decision amending the decree, is basically a circuit, a perimeter of the strategy for managing capital investments that has long been expected. More than once, the deadline for its submission to the Government and the National Assembly has been postponed and, after all, man cannot get rid of the impression that it is all about a plan to withdraw the competence of the National Assembly to actually decide on this strategy, and thus also to influence what will happen to state property. The launch of the Capital Investment Management Agency does not need to be commented because a series of unreasonable moves are taking place every day before the public's eyes, questioning their capacity for competent, professional, transparent management of the country's capital investments. This decree gives them the silence to continue working in this way, so it is our view that it should be rejected, despite certain urgent sales or deadlines covered, and thus influence the Agency's submission to the Government of a strategy to ensure that the Government will forward this strategy in due time, as soon as possible to the National Assembly, and in particular that the Agency will finally take into account the sectoral policies prepared by the ministries when preparing the strategy. She didn't do it until today. She doesn't want to do it. He takes the Government's constitutional competence to manage state property and thus creates a situation of impossibility that can also lead to damage to state property. Our view is that the decree must be rejected and thus affected by the fact that the strategy will come as soon as possible, especially at this time, which promises uncertain conditions in this national assembly, and places the Capital Investment Management Agency in a position where any arbitrary will be able to continue to take place through it, as it has been achieved so far, giving it inconceivable opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u139	Thank you very much. On behalf of the Democratic Party of Pensioners of Slovenia, Matjaž Zanoškar will present the position. [[He's not here.]] On behalf of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party, Mr Bogdan Barovic will present his position.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u140	Thank you for your word, Mr. President. It is perfectly understandable when Mrs State Secretary said that this decree was merely a legal basis. This is understandable, we understand this in the Slovenian National Party. Let me add, however, that it is actually questionable to us to what extent the National Assembly can or should decide. But I'll talk about it later. It is quite understandable that this is also one of the ways in which the State can obtain certain funds or, if we express ourselves according to point 1 of today's agenda, when the State can correct the revenue side. It is also understandable that the country sells those companies and shares of those companies in the Republic of Slovenia where the proportion of the Republic is low and where the Republic of Slovenia cannot actively participate in management. The explanation clearly states that the basis for applying sales is the analysis of the industry, the needs of the company or the companies the State intends to sell. But there's one question. This is because of all that has happened in the last two, three years, even earlier, but more intensely. When or when it may or may not be likely to cause damage to social property — that is a big question. For today we are so far away that no one trusts anyone anymore. Because of what has been happening in the process of "tacunaisation" in Slovenia, Slovenian banks no longer believe in anyone, nor do they provide guarantees to healthy companies that could obtain a business with the guarantees they obtained. So, mistrusting each other. And this is the only question we discussed in the Slovenian National Party. We don't have as much data, we only have as many as they are listed in the decree itself. The question was asked, as I recall, about the sale of Nafte Lendava, why it would be controversial or controversial. I'm afraid I don't know because I don't know the situation and I don't know the reasons. Perhaps it would be good to write or clarify more in such decrees, for we cannot know everything. For all this, on the basis that this decision is merely a legal basis, each of my colleagues and colleague will decide in accordance with their conscience and judgment in the Slovenian National Party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-09-15-SDZ5-Izredna-46.ana.u141	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. As no amendment was adopted by the original working body to the motion for a decree, the amendments could not be tabled at the meeting of the assembly. Decision on the motion for a decree will be made on Friday, 16th, in accordance with the timetable of the meeting. 9, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I also interrupt the 46th extraordinary meeting of the assembly, which we will continue by vote tomorrow at 10 a.m. on Friday. Thank you so much and good night.
