ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u1	Dear fellow Members and fellow Members, ladies and gentlemen! I begin by continuing the 27th meeting of the National Assembly. I am informed that the following Members and Members cannot attend today's meeting: Dr Andreja Črnak Meglič, Janja Klasinc, Melita Župevc, Eva Irgl, Bogdan Barovic, Franz Pukšič, Anton Kolarič, Milenko Ziherl, Miro Petek, Victory Jelinčič Trimeniti and Alojz Posedel. I welcome everyone here. We're moving to 11. Period of the day, that's the third defense proposal for a personal expediency law. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. I'd like a representative of the government, Secretary of State of Mags, please. Damian Lach, for further explanation.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u2	Mr President, honourable Members and Members of Parliament! You have before you a third consideration of the draft law on the ID card, so allow me to summarise in short words the essential novelties which dictate the adoption of this law. The law introduces the possibility of obtaining a permanent identity card after the age of 70, the possibility of issuing and notifying a missing identity card at the diplomatic office and consulate of the Republic of Slovenia abroad, and the possibility of serving a manufactured identity card with the manufacturer. In addition, the law regulates the relationship with other records more appropriately and removes from the existing law provisions relating to the electronic identity card. At the 25th meeting of the National Assembly, the amendment of the Italian and Hungarian Group of the National Communities was adopted at Article 7, on the basis of which a bilingual identity card would be issued to a national resident in an area established by law where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia, by means of a new amendment, proposes that the deleted paragraph in the second reading of the law be reintroduced in Article 7 of the Act, as it insists on the position that the constitutional provision on official language in the Republic of Slovenia does not give the right to bilingual identity cards issued outside the national mixed area. The State has committed itself to the Constitution that bilinguality is only applicable in a limited territory and the Government considers that it is not possible to extend the right to issue a bilingual identity card throughout the country or even to diplomatic or consular representation abroad, where a new identity card can be issued. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia explicitly states that the official language in Slovenia is Slovenian, in the areas of the municipalities in which the Italian or Hungarian national communities live, as well as Italian or Hungarian. In accordance with the Law on State Administration, the State Administration in these areas shall also operate in the language of the national community, and in accordance with the General Administrative Procedure Act, administrative proceedings in the Slovenian language and the language of the national community shall take place in those areas, provided that the party submits a request in that language on the basis of which the procedure is initiated or the party so requests at any time during the proceedings. Although members of the national communities have the right to use the language of the national minority also outside the bilingual area, the authority in this area operates and issues administrative acts only in the Slovenian language. The Government's amendment foresees that members of the national community who have a registered permanent residence in a national mixed area or under certain conditions may obtain a bilingual identity card only in administrative units operating in a national mixed area, which does not mean that they are being reduced by the law of the rights guaranteed, but is based on the specificity of their constitutional position. In this respect, it should be noted that this provision does not apply only to members of these communities, but applies to all citizens of the Republic of Slovenia with permanent residence in the area wishing to obtain a bilingual ID card. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! In the light of the facts presented, it is appropriate for the Government to support the proposed amendment because this will also ensure respect for the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u3	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. On behalf of the Group of Social Democrats, Mr Janez Kikelj has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u4	Mr Vice President, colleagues, colleagues, distinguished Secretary of State with a co-worker! As we have already pointed out at the second reading of the bill on ID card, the identity card is also a document with which we can travel and visit 35 countries now. We have opposed the expansion of the function of the ID card with the added chip for health information in the Group of Social Democrats, and therefore we support this removal. We believe that the accumulation of personal data in one place is not good, because the information technology itself allows the illegal acquisition of individual personal data and the abuse of personal data. The main innovations brought by the novelties of the law and supported in the Group of Social Democrats are aimed at allowing Slovenian diplomatic representations and consulates to issue a ID card or to accept allegations of a missing ID card and to issue a permanent ID card to citizens after the age of 70. We also support solutions that, in exceptional and urgent cases, will allow the issuing of a identity card to be made available to the manufacturer, and that, for the purposes of issuing a identity card, they will arrange and link the records on the basis of which data from the applicant are verified on the application for the issuing of a identity card and thus allow for the issuance of the document as soon as possible. In the second reading, the National Assembly adopted an amendment deleting the fourth paragraph of Article 7 of the Proposal for a Law specifying the issue of identity cards on bilingual forms only on administrative units operating bilingually. The Government disagrees with this and has tabled an amendment which returns this paragraph to the basic proposal of the law on the ID card. The Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides in its Article 11 that the official language in Slovenia is Slovenian. In areas where indigenous Italian and Hungarian minorities live, the official language is also Italian or Hungarian. Both minorities enjoy special collective rights under Article 64 of the Constitution in the areas of residence. Since indigenous national communities only reside in certain areas of the Republic of Slovenia, only in these areas can they exercise their special rights and the State has a duty to ensure them by its conduct. Article 4 of the Law on State Administration states that in the areas of municipalities where minorities live, the official language is also in the administration of the language of the two minorities and that the administration also operates in the language of the national communities. In the case of a party using a Community language, the administration shall also issue legal and other acts in Slovenian and in the language of the national community in those municipalities. 62. Article 62 of the General Administrative Procedure Act provides, however, that administrative proceedings shall be conducted in the Slovenian language and that applications shall be made in that language, decisions, decisions, minutes, official signs and other writings and all acts shall be carried out in the procedure. In the areas of local communities where, in addition to the Slovenian official language, Italian or Hungarian are also the authorities, the administrative procedure shall run in the Slovenian language and in the language of the national community if the party submits a request in that language on the basis of which the procedure begins or if the party so requests during the proceedings. It follows from the above-mentioned provisions that Hungarian and Italian are official languages only in areas where members of the national communities reside, that is to say, all procedures, all applications, procedural actions, issues in their language and, similarly, can be managed only by areas where communities reside. The issuance of public documents in administrative proceedings also includes a personal identity card. Thus, only an administrative unit established in an area inhabited by indigenous national communities may issue a identity card as a public document with data in the national language. Social Democrats believe that the current regime now allows the Italian and Hungarian national communities a high level of constitutional and statutory rights, including the use of their mother tongue in all administrative procedures, including in the issuance of a personal document such as a personal card, the Members and Members of the Social Democrats, we will therefore support the government amendment and, of course, the law as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u5	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party will be presented by Dr Vinko Gorenak. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u6	Thank you very much. We are in the SDS Group and, of course, we support the law as a whole. It is the technique that is moving forward quickly today, which enables new solutions, better solutions, especially faster solutions, so very briefly. We support the law. As for the minority amendment, the situation is simply such that the government is probably right from a very strictly formal point of view. At the same time, it must be said that positive discrimination, which in some way could be imposed on the national minority in this case, in particular those that cost nothing, which does not require additional costs, which in this case, of course, makes such a situation possible, would not be particularly harmful and the state of Slovenia would no longer be in debt or similar. In short, it is also possible to take into account the situation prior to the second reading without this amendment being adopted in the third reading. Since the matter costs nothing, I see no reason why we should act strictly in accordance with what the Government says.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u7	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u8	Have a nice hello to you all. Dear Prime Minister, representative of the Ministry, colleague and colleague! The reasons already mentioned for the adoption of this amendment to the law on the ID card are, as has already been said, the previous law of 2008, which laid down the legal basis for the issue of the electronic identity card, on the basis of which an invitation to tender was also made to establish that the estimated value of the contract was too high. And then the Ministry's leadership decided not to continue the project. The new Ministry leadership has found itself in a situation where a number of provisions need to be deleted, as a result of these large-scale changes and additions today we are considering a new law in the third reading. Among the news that has already been mentioned is that ID cards can also be issued at our diplomatic and consular offices. With Slovenia's entry into the EU, as has already been mentioned, the ID card has become a travel document in many countries and it is logical to allow the issue of identity cards to be issued at diplomatic missions as well. Citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia are allowed to issue a permanent identity card after the age of 70, and the issuance of the document itself will be possible from now on with the identity card maker, which will be the case in urgent cases when the citizens are cut short if they are in such a situation. The opinion on this law has also been given by national self-government communities and has highlighted that the proposal for a law does not guarantee the full implementation of the constitutional provision on the officiality of the Italian or Hungarian language in the areas where the national communities live. In the second reading, we have thus adopted an amendment which deleted Article 7, paragraph 4, of the draft law, which provided for the issue of identity cards on bilingual forms only on administrative units operating bilingually. So what does that mean? The draft law, which we are now considering in the complementary form, provides, inter alia, the possibility of issuing a bilingual ID card in any administrative unit and also in any diplomatic representation or consulate of the Republic of Slovenia abroad. The arguments, why such an arrangement is appropriate, are quite something. On the other hand, the Ministry or Government considers that such an arrangement is not appropriate and that it may be unconstitutional, so the amendment is also tabled. Members of Parliament and Ambassador Zares of this government amendment will not be supported. We believe that the right to bilingual identity card is linked to the area of permanent residence and does not depend on the official language in a process which is outside bilingual areas of course Slovenia. If the current administrative procedure law does not allow the issuing of bilingual cards in administrative units other than bilingual, it would likely be possible to find a way in which such administrative unit would withdraw this procedure from the bilingual area. With the changes already mentioned, when the identity card can be raised by the manufacturer himself, and elsewhere, the solution is probably not technically complicated. If we allow this to be said to certain citizens of the Republic of Slovenia who live in a bilingual area and should have a bilingual ID card by law, that they order this card outside a bilingual area and get a monolingual one, this same right would probably be recognised by Slovenian citizens and nationals who are Hungarian and Italian nationals and would like to order this bilingual ID card in an administrative unit area other than a bilingual area. We believe that the amendment of the Government is unnecessary and should be considered on technical solutions that would also allow minority members to order bilingual identity cards on administrative units outside the place of residence. At the same time, it might not be too much for Slovenian citizens who do not want bilingual cards to live in bilingual areas to limit this possibility. But if not, at least we expect reciprocity. We'll support the marriage, but the amendment, as it were, doesn't. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u9	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian People's Party Group will be presented by Mr Guido Kres.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u10	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished secretary! We have already supported the proposal of the law on identity card in the previous proceedings in the Slovenian People's Party, although it does not bring about very radical changes, but it goes in the direction of rationalisation and simplification of procedures and we are also inclined to do so in the Slovenian People's Party's Group. A more appropriate solution to those unforeseeable events abroad in which the whole process or part of the process of issuing the ID card is required from the submission to the production and service of the document itself in the shortest possible time has been necessary and is now regulated. It is also a commendable opportunity to deliver a ID card to an economic company authorised to produce and re-personalize identity cards as soon as they are made, and shows how information technology can be used only if the will is shown to introduce more advanced procedures. The possibility of issuing a ID card and indicating a missing ID card at the diplomatic office and consulate of the Republic of Slovenia abroad, as is the case for issuing a passport, is another practical solution. For now the service is often an unnecessary obstacle and an abundance of time lost for citizens who are abroad and who are unexpectedly in trouble with documents. Solutions go in the direction of simplification, and so should many other things in our country. As we say, we will support the marriage. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u11	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Anton Urh.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u12	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, Director of the Directorate, colleague and colleague! Members of DeSUS have already supported the proposal for a bill on ID card in the second reading. Our decision was based on an assessment that this is a suitable law that eliminates the inconsistencies of the law now in force, notably the deletion of those legal provisions that are not applied in practice and are therefore irrelevant. There is no doubt that it is a good, comprehensive law that regulates the personal ID card in its entirety as a public document by which a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia proves his identity and nationality and can also use it to cross the border under certain conditions. Again, in the third reading, the proposal on our tables is due to an adopted amendment which gives the possibility to issue a bilingual ID card on any administrative unit and not just on those operating in the areas of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. Both the reasons for such regulation and the reasons against them are valid. The question is, which ones are more important? However, after considering the argument, our Group concluded that the reasons on the side of the regulation for issuing bilingual identity cards have greater weight than the administrative unit in the area of which indigenous national communities live, so we will support the government amendment in this direction. Members of the DeSUS have thus concluded on the grounds that this does not affect the rights of citizens, members of national minorities, nor does their position or status deteriorate. The DeSUS Group will vote in favour of the government amendment as well as the adoption of the whole law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u13	Thank you very much. The position of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Mr Silven Majhenič. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u14	Dear Mr President, a warm welcome to the representatives of the Ministry. This is a national identification document. The identity card is therefore a means of demonstrating the identity of the nationality, travel document and legal representation document. In 2005, a new law on the ID card was adopted to harmonise criminal provisions with the Act on Offences. In the draft law, the proposer shall endeavour to ensure the clarity of the law and to ensure that the identity card can be served more quickly in urgent cases and that the aged are subject to a permanent identification document and that the number of persons who do not have an identification document is reduced. Otherwise it retains most of the provisions of the old law, except in that part relating to a qualified digital certificate for the provision of electronic healthcare and insurance services. A citizen of the Republic of Slovenia with a permanent residence abroad will be issued with the same valid identity card as a citizen with a permanent residence in Slovenia. It seems to us that it is possible to use the photograph used for the identification document even when it comes to the issue of the passport. The permanent validity of the identity card after the age of 70 is certainly a good decision, as it often happens that a person cannot reach the authority which issues the document for health reasons. The applicant explains that it will also be possible to obtain a personal document at diplomatic-consular offices after a new one. As we see, it is a document with which it can travel to 33 countries and is still of interest to third-world citizens, so the production of a document and the storage of blank forms in terms of transparency and alienation is one of the most important measures to protect against alienation and falsification. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Parties, we support the amendment of the Government, which corrects the inappropriate decision of the National Assembly when it adopted the amendment of the parliamentary group of nationalities, which is intended to allow the issue of bilingual identity cards in any administrative unit. We had already opposed this decision by members of the Slovenian National Party. In the parliamentary group of nationalities, they seem to have forgotten that in the Republic of Slovenia they represent rights for minorities only in mixed areas and that in the other areas, the official language is still Slovenian. It has once again turned out that Members of the National Assembly are blindly following proposals that are in no way acceptable. We will support the law in the Slovenian National Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u15	Thank you very much. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the LDS.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u16	Thank you for your word. All gathered in the hall are warmly welcomed, especially by the representative of the government! The identity card is the basic and most common identification document of citizens and citizens of the Republic of Slovenia. In the past, there has been a strong desire for the electronicisation of identity cards and legislation has been amended accordingly during the previous government. It was subsequently found that the process of electrifying the ID card was not economically acceptable as costs would be too high. The bill we are considering thus repeals the provisions relating to the implementation of the electronic identity card, introduces solutions that will contribute to greater clarity of the legal provisions on the issue and use of personal data, regulates a more friendly and faster process of handing out identity cards for all citizens and, by introducing permanent identity cards for persons after 70 years, contributes to the elimination of problems to extend the validity of the identity card after that year. At second reading, the draft law on the ID card was approved by the amendment tabled by the members of the Italian and Hungarian national communities. This amendment has deleted the fourth paragraph of Article 7 of the Act, which provides that the identity card shall be issued on bilingual forms only on administrative units operating bilingually. The adoption of the amendment means that all administrative units, as well as all diplomatic and consular representations of the Republic of Slovenia after 2011, will have to issue bilingual ID cards, also meaning that this amendment extends the area of bilinguality from the areas where the indigenous national communities reside to the whole of Slovenia. In practice, this would mean that each administrative unit will have to ensure that the administrative procedure in the case of the issuing of a ID card is carried out at any time in Slovenia in the language of indigenous national communities. Such arrangements would be inconsistent with Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia and Article 4 of the Law on State Administration and Article 62 of the Law on General Administrative Procedure, while at the same time imposing an additional administrative burden on a large majority of administrative units. Article 11 of the Constitution states that the official language in Slovenia is Slovenian. In the areas of the municipalities where the Italian and Hungarian national communities live, the official language is also Italian and Hungarian. The Law on State Administration in Article 4 provides that in the areas of municipalities where indigenous national communities live, the official language in the administration is also Italian and Hungarian, Article 62 of the Law on Administrative Procedure provides that administrative procedures shall be conducted in the Slovenian language and that in the areas of local communities where, in addition to Slovenian, the official language is also Italian and Hungarian, the administrative procedure shall run in Slovenian and in the language of the indigenous national community. It is clear from the foregoing that Italian and Hungarian are official languages only in areas where the indigenous national community resides. The amendment tabled by the Government proposing that a new fourth paragraph be added to Article 7 of the Act, which reads as follows: "the personal card referred to in paragraph 2 and paragraph 3 shall be issued by an administrative unit operating in an area defined by the law where the indigenous Italian or Hungarian national communities live," which is to say that it follows only meaningfully the provisions of the Constitution and the applicable legislation. The adoption of the amendment does not in any way exacerbate the situation of members of indigenous national communities, since the regulation, as regulated by the amendment of the law on identity cards, is the same as adopted in 2005. The existing legislation and constitution must also be respected in this case, and I therefore call on Members and Members to support the amendment to Article 7. We will, of course, support the amendment proposed by the Government because of meaningful changes and good solutions to the amendment of the law in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u17	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members will be presented by the mag. Franz Gniedarsich. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u18	Mr Vice-President, distinguished Secretary of State with a co-worker, distinguished colleagues! The Group of Unaffiliated Members notes that the draft Law on the Third Reading Personal Card is a good solution, as the provisions that have not been implemented so far have been removed, while we refer to the electronic identity card and, on the other hand, the new law gives rise to favourable provisions for citizens. Among these are the essentials: the possibility of issuing a ID card at the diplomatic office and consulate of the Republic of Slovenia abroad, obtaining a identity card with permanent validity after the age of 70, the possibility of service of a manufactured ID card in an economic company authorised to produce and permanentize identity cards, which reduces the time of resolution in urgent cases, the appropriate arrangements for the connectivity of records, the harmonisation of the provisions of the law with the field of the issuance of travel documents, or the Law on travel documents. At the same time, the proposed law preserves most useful solutions to the law so far in force. The law will not have significant financial implications for the state budget, as it foresees a cost of €70 000 in 2011 and only €40 000 in 2012. With regard to the Government's amendment to remove the possibility of obtaining a identity card for representatives or citizens of both minorities, I am particularly troubled by how many times such a case would arise in practice. I believe that it is extremely rare for all other citizens, that they should be given an urgent place to go, as a rule, to be currently regulated in their administrative units because they are closest to him or where he lives. The fact that someone has to get a card is extremely unpleasant for a citizen, and therefore it is very important that there is no problem. And if I understand the solution of the law correctly, all citizens, including representatives of minorities, abroad, could obtain a identity card in emergencies, but not at home, wherever they might be in this situation. That is why I think that, although the Government has explained its amendment in a formal sense, and in a practical sense, if it is possible to do so without great costs, I think that the solution can remain, as we supported it in the second reading. I believe that the Government amendment would only support if all administrative units in the country should have an employee at least someone who can speak Italian or Hungarian or both languages. However, since this is not necessary in my opinion or according to the information we have received, then I think that it could remain a solution, as it was adopted in another reading. We will not support this amendment to the Government either in terms of the fact that it benefits minorities, provides positive discrimination wherever possible, and if nothing costs us, it is so much easier in this case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u19	Thank you very much. Mr László Göncz will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of National Communities Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u20	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear Mr Secretary of State, Mr Director, colleagues and colleagues! I will limit myself to this special part or to the content relating to the amendment, because we have already said that we generally support the adoption of the law. The second sentence of Article 11 of the Constitution of the Republic of Slovenia provides that in the territory of the municipalities where the Italian or Hungarian national communities live, the official language shall also be Italian or Hungarian. This constitutional provision clearly defines the equal status and use of languages, Slovenian and Italian or Hungarian, which apply in all areas of the public sphere, including all content of bilingualism, including external bilinguality, and that of all citizens living permanently in that area. It is not necessary to point out that the identity card is an important document that illustrates the bilinguality of territory or the nationality of the mixed area and its allocation in the context of Slovenian minority legislation is not optional in nature. A bilingual document of the inhabitants – and this is an emphasis on a bilingual document, contrary to a monolingual document that has a permanent residence in a national mixed area – is not granted on the basis of its subjective judgment, whether or not it wishes to have one, but automatically. Only in such an interpretation does the association of collective rights matter to the indigenous national community in a specific area. If this is not the case or if this is not so understood, the territory or national mixed area loses its meaning within the Slovenian minority protection model. We stress that this model represents a high legal protection of indigenous national communities, which is a positive feature of the Republic of Slovenia, which has been legally formed in the last 35 years, in fact since the 1974 Republic Constitution. In this context, the proper and appropriate provision of the second paragraph of Article 7 of the proposed Law on Personal Cards, which provides that a citizen, with a registered permanent residence in an area determined by a law where the indigenous Italian and Hungarian national communities live, shall be issued a personal card in a form printed in Slovenian, English and Italian or Slovenian, English and Hungarian. In accordance with Article 12 of the Proposal for a Law, a citizen may apply for a ID card to the competent national authority for issuing a ID card. It is therefore not generally specified on which administrative unit a citizen must apply for a identity card. Article 13 even provides that an application may be submitted in physical or electronic form, which is also correct, as it is a register of data linked at national level and for the central production of identity cards. Article 5 of the draft law merely provides for the issuing of a personal identification card by an administrative unit, it is understood that, in normal circumstances, in the absence of an emergency, a designated administrative unit shall physically hand over the document to the applicant. Therefore, if a citizen of the Republic of Slovenia who has a permanent residence in a national mixed area in Prekmurje or on the coast submits an application for obtaining a personal card in the form in the Slovenian language – not bilingual – for example in Kranj, which is not a national mixed area and does not properly operate bilingually, the register shall show that he has permanent residence in the national mixed area. On the basis of the second paragraph of Article 7 of the Proposal for a Law, the document manufacturer shall draw up a personal card in a bilingual or trilingualism form because the person has a permanent residence in the national mixed area. In our view, this is not a matter of any legal embarrassment or problem and even less of a problem in the technical implementation of the preparation of a bilingual ID card. At the very least, the right to use the Italian and Hungarian languages outside the territory provided for by law is being extended. The same is true if the application is submitted in electronic form. The proposed text of the second paragraph of Article 7 of the draft Law on Personal Card provides that, in accordance with the Slovenian model for the protection of indigenous national communities, which, among others, is based on the equality of languages of nationality in a specific territory, residents with permanent residence in the national mixed area of bilingual documents, in which case a bilingual identity card shall be held. The amendment proposed by the Government and returns the text, which was not supported in the second reading by the National Assembly, is, according to our assessment of the confusion and difficulty in the content of the provisions of the law for several reasons. By the way, its explanation does not fully refer to the substance of this content, but raises certain questions regarding the use of indigenous languages in or outside the national mixed area, which is not at all controversial in this provision of the bill. I will limit myself to just two of the biggest problems that will arise if the proposed amendment is adopted. First time. If we legally establish that a personal card in the Slovenian, English and Italian, English and Hungarian languages can be issued only by an administrative unit operating in a national mixed area, thereby allowing those residents with permanent residence in a national mixed area who do not wish to receive or have a three-lingual identity card to make this legal by submitting an application to an administrative unit which does not operate in a national mixed area. If this is the interest of the proposer of the law or of the contested amendment, so that the use of bilingual identity cards of the inhabitants of the national mixed area will be based on an optional basis, then this must be made clear. However, in this case, there is a clear reduction in the level of rights guaranteed so far in the national mixed area, which will soon lead to a domino-effect or chain reaction when residents decide to adopt bilingual documents and such values optionally, for example in the case of bilingual education, in our case in Prekmurje. It is probably not necessary to point out that in this way the three-lingual identity cards and documents and other matters of bilingual character will be used primarily by members of national communities and will be abandoned in time due to the gradual, regrettably, gradual decline in the power of ethnicity. The importance of the territory or the national mixed area would be weakened by the adoption of the amendment and gradually decommissioned. The second problem that I would like to mention and is recognised by the Government is that, by adopting the proposed amendment, members of the national communities and all other residents with permanent residence in the national mixed area wishing to obtain three-lingual identity cards should be legally deprived of the right to invest and obtain a limited document in comparison with others living in a one-language area, since, irrespective of temporary residence or other reasons, they should only apply to administrative units operating in a national mixed area. It does not need to be emphasized that this, at least in my opinion, is unequivocally discriminatory. To conclude, by amending legislation, we should upgrade rather than limit the level of protection of the rights of indigenous national communities and, in particular, create an atmosphere that encourages all citizens of the national mixed area to respect the values created by the space where at least two peoples or languages and cultures are historically present, but not to allow or legalise the possibility of playing a functional bilingual role in the area. The communication of such behaviour in relation to the high standard of Slovenian minority legislation would in no way be good, and for indigenous national communities it would be extremely harmful. We therefore hope that the Government will understand this problem and take appropriate action and that the proposed amendment of the Government will not receive the majority support of the National Assembly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u21	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. However, since we have only one amendment and 7th, and since so far there have been the most debates in the presentation of views on it, I do not rule out the possibility that, in the general debate, we are also discussing question 7 in particular. The first was Mrs Cvetka Zalokar Orazem, who will not discuss it. Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic won't discuss it. Mr. Willie Rezman won't discuss it. Mr. Roberto Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u22	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues, distinguished representatives of the Ministry of the Interior! It would be difficult to add to what Dr. Gorenak, Mr Rožej, said, and especially colleague Göncz. Slovenia has come to the international stage as a democratic country capable of independence, particularly with a view to regulating minority issues. I was there, so I know you were. What the government is proposing with this amendment is breaking down this system, lowering it, lowering it, taking the credibility of the state, harming Slovenia because it is discriminatory in its final consequences. This is a domino effect that destroys the attitude towards minorities in Slovenia itself as a result of the school system, because it is the opinion of the majority. It informs, in this way gives form to the opinion of the majority in this direction. I did not imagine that after 20 years of autonomy we would face such revisions of the basics of the situation of national communities. And it's not the only attempt. I don't know if it's out of ignorance or because it's simply because the government doesn't tolerate the equality of languages in these areas. And I wonder what our education and higher education system is like when people don't know these basic bases of our arrangement. It is as if the Slovenian language and the Slovenian language were threatened because the language of the national communities appears in a document. As if this amendment was designed to reward the impatient who do not want to see the minority language in their own document. That's the danger. And this bureaucratic hairbrushing, which costs nothing because the discriminant is the applicant's residence. It's like these basic things don't even want to be understood. This is not an administrative procedure that I begin in Italian and so on. These bilingual identity cards shall be issued in national mixed areas to each of them, irrespective of the language in which the form is completed. And it could be in any other administrative unit. Because if not, even the government is written in the argument of the amendment "Look, it is not our fault, it is the constitution that discriminates against these people". Unbelievable. I appeal that this amendment is not accepted and that we allow the whole of Slovenia to appreciate the presence of the national communities in its own territory, as is the case with all the international instruments ratified by Slovenia in relation to minorities so far and as the international agreements which oblige Slovenia to do so and which are also bound to delimitation. This isn't a joke. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u23	Thank you very much. Mr Franco Juri has the floor to prepare Mirko Brulc.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u24	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. I don't understand why we need to discuss this amendment again today and why the government or the ministry did not understand the message we transmitted when we supported the amendment of the national communities most of the time. Something has already been said today, both by Comrade Battelli and earlier by a colleague of Rožje on behalf of the Zares Group. We wanted to say in a very rational way that this issue is primarily about the interpretation of an administrative procedure in the light of the constitutional rights guaranteed to minorities in Slovenia. I assume that Slovenia has adopted a practice that could be exemplary for all countries, particularly neighbouring European Union countries, in its particular positive attitude towards national communities. Now, however, things are getting complicated and stuck in this bureaucratic issue, which has a much broader dimension. It was in the Government's explanation that I felt this dimension as an attempt to limit the positive interpretation of the language rights of the two national communities. I will give one concrete example; in this Chamber, both representatives of the national communities have the constitutional right to perform in their own language. And if we wanted to have a consistent state of justice, we should have a simultaneous translation system here, headphones, to realize this right and ensure it. We want to be practical, and since we are all or almost most of those who come from a national mixed area, bilingual, we use the official language of the country to avoid making things complicated. Unfortunately, this spirit of practicality is sometimes misinterpreted and forgets those key rights that are provided and even if they are not used in practice, they must remain there in case and also to confirm the positiveness that our country provides. However, in the administrative process and in this official procedure of issuing identity cards, we stick to the bureaucratic logic that the last step, that is that physical document, is part of this procedure and must therefore be consistently carried out in accordance with the territorial principle. And that's where our doubts come in. We believe that the law, which is basically good because it essentially builds on the technological possibility of issuing these documents, centralises data, enables greater flexibility in the exercise of civil rights anywhere in the country, but we do not understand why such an attitude at the last step is just a technical issue, but is a technical issue with a very wide and large scope that affects the constitutional rights of our citizens of different nationalities. Let's say once again, no one demands that this procedure be conducted bilingually. Nobody's asking you to! The procedure will be conducted in the official language of the Republic of Slovenia, but at the end, when the document is issued, the document to be carried by the resident with permanent residence in the national mixed area will be bilingual. And that's just a technical question that can't and can't be a problem. If it is a problem, it becomes a political problem and then we must attach it to the words that we have heard from the representative of the national community. I do not want to believe that the situation is so dramatic and that this government, which essentially respects and advocates the rights of minorities, is stuck on such a banal issue. This banal issue is a banal issue, but suddenly it becomes a meaningless political issue that should not be addressed here even today. And I don't understand why you came with this amendment and once again offered one part of the coalition, at least we've united ourselves, an opportunity to vote differently. Now, politically speaking, does this make sense in this situation that we are going to provoke again something that will divide the coalition? That is why I do not know whether to withdraw the amendment, as long as it is time, otherwise we will vote unitedly against it and adhere consistently to the decision we made when we voted in favour of the amendment of the national communities. The law is good and it is a shame to contaminate it with these debates, which then create turbulences that are unnecessary at the moment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u25	Thank you very much. Mr. Mirko Brulc has the floor. Get Anton Anderlich ready. After him, Miran Györek, Franci Kek.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u26	Thank you very much. Nice greetings to all present! Look, hard words don't have to be used, there's no connection between this amendment and the coalition, and there's no agreement, we're going to vote on our own conscience, and I think we can all be proud. I am especially proud to have such a positive attitude towards minorities in our country since Yugoslavia. This is not everywhere in Europe or in the world. We took care of it, we built it, I came from a bilingual area, from Hungarian, and I know what bilinguality means. With all due respect for the Italian and Hungarian minorities, I have only a few concerns and questions here, and I hope to get answers so that I can vote more easily. Colleague Laszlo Göncz listed some very exact marriages and other children who predict that the minority should be able to make a personal document anywhere in Slovenia to simplify. These are arguments that cannot be ignored, but if someone else thinks otherwise, then do not take it as discrimination against a minority and immediately attack by going back and forth. Look, I never compare minority rights in neighbouring countries, because we know we're not going to be the same, where they're much worse. I can mention in Goriška, where the Slovenian minority is, there is no saying that any document would work elsewhere in Italy. And I also think what was said today that the identity card was supposed to be proof of ethnicity, unfortunately it's not like that anywhere. In neighbouring Gorica lives a whole range of Slovenes who did not go to work a bilingual document, although they have this right, but did not take over Slovenian citizenship, even though they have this right. However, they did not change the Polish Slovenian surnames, although they could do so today. However, I think and I know that these are conscious, honest Slovenians living in the Italian Republic. If the Slovenian minority in Italy is weak, then Germany is extremely strong, around Bolzan, but there is no word that they can exercise the right to obtain documents throughout Italy. Look, I have one question. We get a ID and it's valid, I think, for 10 years. Why would we force someone to go from Prekmur to make a ID card in Tolmin or why I should do it in Tolmin, and vice versa, someone from Kopra, Lendava. Why this is essential, why it is imperative that we mix in this way, why it is essential that we torture an administrative officer with names that are unreadable for some. My friend Göncz, we know how I can read your last name and write it down. You have to write it down to someone else on your computer yourself so that they can get it right. I think that those who live in a bilingual area should get a personal card in bilingual, trilingual language and can make it in their home environment and do not have to walk around Slovenia looking for some x administrative unit. That's why I'm really interested after ten years because I know I'm going to pass my ID card, why someone from Izola should get in a car and go all the way to the other end of Slovenia and ask for a three-lingual card, say, in Italian. I think that this amendment does not reduce the rights of a minority, but if we do make a personal card every year or a personal document, I think it is also an arms document or something else, which must be an identification document, which must be in a three-lingual language, if it is a resident from this area, but still make it difficult for administrative units throughout Slovenia to do their business. The costs are probably not going to be much, but it is a purely practical implementation of this law. I would therefore like to ask for an answer as to where the reasons are that, after the validity of ten years, we have to allow this flow and this requirement for a document across Slovenia, or in an exceptional case, if I lose the document and then I want to get it under emergency in the place where I am at present, but in such a case I do not get it immediately, but in a few days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u27	Thank you. Mr. Miran Györek will not discuss it. Franci Kek didn't either. Mag. Sarah Wheeler won't discuss it. Mr. Vito Rozej. Have Franz Jurša ready, followed by Milan Gumzar, Silven Majhenič, Anton Kampush. Here you go, Mr. Vito Rozej.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u28	Thank you for your word. If I keep going where my friend Yuri ended up. For practical and pragmatic reasons in this House, we do not now hear Italian and Hungarian, although we could. However, we also have one pragmatic provision in this law, which speaks of the fact that in addition to the Slovenian language things will be printed in English on this document. Pragmatic because we travel around the world with it and because Slovenia understands few people around the world. He's got pragmatism on one side, we understand him, we don't want him on the other side. If this concern that such a provision is unconstitutional is justified, it is likely that the Constitutional Court, when it has time, would have ruled that way. However, if this is now about our guesses or greater and less likely, it is something that should not have happened in a delicate area such as minority rights. If we, among other things, allow all citizens, as with the previous novel, which regulated this issue, to make it easier for them to come to a personal document, it is probably good that we allow all our citizens to do so. If we think practically and pragmatically, a minority who wants to order this ID card outside the bilingual area probably has a job there: either studying or working, if I say otherwise, is actively involved in this society and wants to integrate into their home country, not into the country, for example, their national community. This feels good, it's something that makes us rich. We would be happy if as many Hungarians as possible from Lendava studied in Ljubljana to use their knowledge, if only possible, in Slovenia in the Slovenian economy, but not to go to study, what I know, in Budapest or elsewhere, and later to work and participate creatively. Some go to Hungary instead of doing it in Slovenia. I think that this is one small thing and this right would apply to be extended in the way that it was adopted in the second reading, so that these countries cost nothing, but they can gain a lot. I know that all these comparisons with arrangements abroad are such that Slovenia is still exemplary. There's nothing wrong with being even more exemplary. As a matter of fact, administrative procedure is one thing. If, at the end of the administrative procedure, all administrative units, for pragmatic reasons, issue a personal card in English and Slovenian, then it would probably be possible to add a minority language to the language of certain nationals for the same pragmatic reasons. There won't be a lot of cases like this, as I say. However, I think it is very important at the symbolic level that all citizens of this country feel equal citizens of this country, regardless of their ethnic origin. As a matter of fact, I will not support the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u29	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Jursha. [[He won't discuss it.]] Milan Gumzar. [[No, no, ……]] Sylven Tiny. [[No, no, ……]] Anton Kampush. [[No, no, ……]] Aloysius Potočnik. [[No, no, ……]] Tadj Slapnik. Willie Trophynic. Mr. László Göncz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u30	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. After I spoke, a few things were also highlighted. If you'd really listened to each other, there'd almost be nothing left to add. I'd only repeat two things. First of all, the attachment of collective minority rights to territories and the specificity of territories where indigenous national communities live is also an external bilinguality. Personal documents, including identity cards, are an extremely important element of this. If legally, so legally, allow, I will use the harsh word, the play of obtaining this document, thus, for the third time, becoming a much less important territorial aspect in the general protection of minority rights of indigenous communities. That's one thing. Second thing. Unfortunately, we record situations, even in the past, when this was tried to be played. When we argue that we should encourage those values that undoubtedly encourage all citizens of the ethnically mixed area to value that area to respect the area. But it respects that it also accepts those specifics that apply there, that it also accepts language, culture, and something else, indigenous national communities. And yet it is a personal card, if we are purely honest, of a symbolic character, but it is an extremely important symbol. The amendment in this reading, as it is now proposed, allows just those who want to avoid bilingual documents to do so, because only five or eight or nineteen, or I do not know how many kilometers must go away, and already in another administrative unit, they get a monolingual, bilingual document. We've already talked about the domino effect, I really wouldn't stress it again, but it's really some kind of greater political responsibility for all of us on this issue, if we're going to trigger it. Some people are waiting for this. We are all well aware of this in this hall. Finally, I didn't want to talk about this earlier, but already and so, the technicalally problematic programming situation of the city itself is Murska Sobota. There is a centre of the administrative unit, which is otherwise not a national mixed area. I'm gonna tell you one other thing that's not related to this, and I'm gonna end it. In recent years there have been only a few cases, less than 10 cases, of the use of Hungarian language in the centre of the administrative unit Murska Sobota. So it's an extraordinary problem. It is also surprising to me that, in this respect, the drafter of the law did not address this issue in this broader context.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u31	Thank you very much. Would you like a word from the government? Mag. Damian Lah, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u32	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Members! It's not really about the money. It was said that it cost nothing. Yeah, it doesn't really cost much. A technical solution that would allow the issue of identity cards in the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia in two languages or in three languages cost nothing, almost zero costs. This has already been said in the second reading of the law. But the rule of law has already been presented by the government. There may be a need for special emphasis in the work when we talk about issuing administrative acts under the Administrative Procedure Act. A personal card shall be a type decision and shall be issued in a short administrative procedure. It is not about someone filing a request or application for the issuance of a ID card on the Maribor administrative unit and asking that this ID card be issued on the Lendava administrative unit. That's not how it works. Where you file an application for the issuing of a ID card, the whole procedure shall be carried out until the issuing of a ID card. A physical identity card can be hot in two ways, of course, a matter of individual decision. Either it is sent by mail or it is served in an administrative unit where it has submitted an application for the issuing of a ID card. I want to tell you that the entire administrative procedure begins and ends in one and the same administrative unit. It's not about sending forms across different parts of Slovenia electronically and issuing ID cards there. But the fact is, and before that, we cannot keep our eyes closed that the languages of ethnic minorities are constitutionally and legally established in areas where minorities live. It is not expected that the administrative procedure in the Slovenian language and in the language of ethnic minorities will be conducted throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia, because this means a proposal that was voted in the second reading of the law. The amendment tabled by the members of the national groups meant this: the use of Hungarian and Italian in administrative proceedings throughout the territory of the Republic of Slovenia. This not only means the physical issue of the final act, but the whole process should also be conducted in the language of nationality. Nationality has the right to do so in the area in which it lives. The government is convinced that by putting forward an amendment that, by the way, establishes today’s state of affairs — the law that is still in force today has absolutely no other solution than that proposed by the Government with the current amendment. It would be difficult to agree that the Government, by applying an amendment, would restrict the issue of bilingual identity cards in areas where they live in ethnic areas, in order to mean taking the credibility of the State or interfering with the rights of the national communities they have under the Constitution. That's absolutely not the case. With nothing from today's proposal, the Government does not lower the standards and rights that apply to national communities in the Republic of Slovenia. By the way, passports – they are not subject to such a solution. Licenses – they are not subject to such a solution. Traffic permits – such a solution as you propose does not apply to them. And we could also list, list and list. In the final stage, of course, this could mean that in Slovenia all administrative procedures in any field of public administration work will be conducted in Slovenian and in the language of the national communities. That's what this is about. And it's not about money, because you practically don't need money here to make this change technically. It's content. It is probably more meaningful to talk about this than to talk about the fact that technically there is no problem. Technically, you know, in today's technology, it's almost no longer a problem. Of course, the problem is just content, or content, that meets the objective that we follow. The technical reason cannot be a substantive reason for you to change and do something contrary to the current legislation in the Republic of Slovenia. The Constitution is very clear and very specific in this field of minority rights in the Republic of Slovenia. The laws, which are still some of the provisions of the Constitution, are also very clear and very precise and follow the provisions of the Constitution. And one thing, the government is not afraid of the threat of Slovenian language in Slovenia with the amendment proposal. This is a misinterpretation or a misinterpretation of the government amendment. The government just wants us all to respect the postulates we have in the basic acts. It should be known that no special decision shall be taken on the identity card in the administrative procedure. The identity card itself is already a decision in the administrative procedure. It was mentioned that we are very tolerant of the fact that the identity card is also issued in English. But look, we also identified our ID card as a travel document, and it would probably be a bit excessive to expect that, given that we can travel with a ID card, I think in thirty countries that everyone everywhere would understand those basic data from the ID card if they were written in Slovenian only. In English, not all the data are printed on the ID card, but only individual sections are printed. However, in the language of national minorities, names, places and so on are also displayed in the language of national minorities. This information is not translated into English. Once again, the Government proposes that, on the basis of arguments, not only formal but also substantive ones arising from the administrative procedure, honourable Members and Members support its proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u33	Thank you very much. We have concluded a debate on the bill as a whole. We are moving on to the debate on Article 7 and the amendment to Article 7. In the framework of the time available to each Member Group, please apply. Mr. Roberto Battelli, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u34	Thank you for your word. If I understand correctly, because I doubt now that we know what this law contains, but if I understand correctly, this law allows, unlike now valid, the acquisition of a identity card on any administrative unit. There is no difference between this and the current law. It is now possible to obtain a ID card on each administrative unit. You guys know that?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u35	Mr. Battelli, your time is up. Would you like another answer, Mr. Lah?
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u36	Thank you very much. Of course, even today, under the current regime, the identity card may be issued throughout the entire territory of the Republic of Slovenia, but today's solution is not applicable to national communities. Members of the national community may obtain a bilingual identity card if they deposit it on an administrative unit where they have permanent residence.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u37	Mr. Battelli, no offense, but really, I'm sorry. Anyone else want to discuss the amendment to Article 7? He doesn't want to. I conclude the debate on Article 7 and the amendment to Article 7. We will decide on the law in accordance with the timing of the decision on Tuesday, 3 May, in the framework of the vote. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving on to 12. At the end of the day, this is the third draft of the Banking Act on Amendments and Supplements. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members for consideration by the assembly. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposed law, Zvonko Černač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u38	Dear colleague, dear colleagues, all the others present! In this law, we have come from two main objectives. Firstly, the aim was to prevent a conflict of interest between members of the management and control bodies of business banks and, above all, the majority state-owned bank. Secondly, the reduction of the possibility of a conflict of interest between members of the management and supervision bodies operating abroad and in which they have a dominant share of the bank established in the Republic of Slovenia. As a result of this conflict of interest, there are many decisions that are detrimental to the business of concrete banks. In the case of State banks, such decisions are also detrimental to taxpayers. If this conflict of interest is not prevented or is not prevented by effective mechanisms, the position of the individual bank and its exposure to adverse decisions may deteriorate and, as a result, threaten the stability of the banking or financial system in the country as a whole. This marriage was not accompanied by the best of prospects. When we discussed it at the end of last year, in December, it was opposed by the majority of the ruling coalition's parliamentary groups, despite the fact that this law had passed the first sieve and despite the Government's negative opinion at that time, the government changed that opinion after the European Central Bank's opinion had been reached, as well as the majority of the ruling coalition's members. It is true, however, that this law, with the amendments that have been tabled and also adopted by the parliamentary groups of the ruling coalition, has changed to such an extent that it essentially represents a kind of patch to the bleeding wound of the financial and banking system in our country. Nevertheless, this is, nevertheless, a contribution to the introduction of different standards in this area, and perhaps also a contribution to the fact that, in addition to the transparency that this law imposes, there is sometimes a greater degree of transparency in the relationship of state banks. Members of the National Assembly, despite numerous institutions, the Commission on Public Finance Control and others, have not yet been able to obtain information on what, in fact, the depths in the largest state bank of the New Ljubljana Bank. When the Prime Minister seeks the key to the rehabilitation of public finances in the so-called pension reform, and when this key is sought in reducing the pensions of those who already have poor pensions, i.e. the lowest, and when speaking, not for a short period of time, about 100 or 200 million euros per year, then respected, this key to the resolution of the financial system should be sought first and foremost in the area of banking. First and foremost in the field of the largest state bank. On Monday, Croatian media reported that Nova LB is also present in Croatia, although, as you know, it has a ban on the governor of their national bank, and that it is some depths of some EUR 10 million. We heard a while ago that Nova LB lost some 10 million euros in Serbia. Not long ago, this country recapitalised the bank with almost EUR 250 million of taxpayer money, while financial experts say that this abyss is at least a billion euros deep? Here, my respects, the key to the recovery of public finances is to be sought, not on quasi-retired reform, which will not save anything. Above all, it reduces the rights of those who already have little or nothing and have difficulty living from month to month. And the law you have on the table has been in the legislative procedure for almost half a year, and it was the first step towards clearing up these relations and that such profoundities and such uneconomic decisions would no longer occur in the future. Interestingly, at the first stage of December last year, the government was opposed to ensuring transparency in the area of the largest state bank, in order to avoid through this transparency decisions that are harmful to both the bank and the financial system of that country as a whole. On the other hand, it was the same government to take on those who already have nothing, that is, pensions. That's the wrong world, sorry. When the prime minister on the one hand talks about this and frightens people about how crucial this reform is, the same day the finance minister also says if this law is not enforced and if the referendum is rejected, it is no big deal. "We already have a solution in the intervention law, but we will extend it." We will, of course, support the law in the parliamentary group. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u39	Thank you very much. In order to explain and complement the views of the Government, I give the floor to Mrs Mateja Vraničar, State Secretary at the Ministry of Finance. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u40	Mr President, thank you for the floor. Ladies and gentlemen of the House! The proposed law implements the main objectives already mentioned by my predecessor or has achieved them in the original text by legislating the mandatory application of the Public Company Management Code in banks. Of course, the objectives pursued by the proposed law cannot be disputed and the government has never challenged the objectives such as this. In the present hearing, however, we have expressed doubts or have drawn attention to the legal nature of the Code of Management of Public Shareholders, which is a form of legal act of an autonomous source of law, in the various areas of operation of the related stakeholders and the characteristics of the Code is legally non-binding nature. With the amendments adopted so far under consideration, this main reservation, which was raised by the Government in its original position, was lifted. The express legal reference to the Code in some segments would not be in line with the applicable rules for banks and savings banks that transpose the provisions of the European directives into our legal order. However, the amendments adopted to the bill contain a solution whereby the duty of members of the management boards and members of the supervisory boards of banks is not bound by the code itself, but commits them to comply with the highest ethical standards of management, taking into account the prevention of conflicts of interest. The Bank of Slovenia will upgrade the law by means of a sub-legislative regulation and lay down more detailed rules on the conduct of members of the administration and members of the supervisory boards, in which it will also take into account ethical management standards in addition to the relevant professional due diligence standards. Some attention in my opening presentation needs to be paid to Article 4 of the draft law, as amended by the amendment at the previous meeting of the National Assembly and to which a new amendment has also been tabled for today's consideration. The Article in the proposal for a third treatment law refers to the specific obligation to disclose certain information on transactions between the bank and its related persons. It is undeniable that the list should be disclosed, supplemented by disclosure of information relating to members of the board, supervisory boards and their family members. In this provision, however, the reference to the whole article 30 of the Act is problematic. It should be clarified that the definition of persons subject to the disclosure requirement contained in the proposal of the law refers to the definition of persons linked to each other. In the Banking Act, this provision on interconnected persons, i.e. persons who are related but not to the bank, is placed in the Banking Act because of the provisions on the treatment of large exposures. This group of persons is, as has already been said, an interconnected person who poses one risk to the bank, and this fact is important, for example, in the treatment of credits, and it is not for persons directly linked to the bank, such as the purpose of dealing with disclosures of business contacts between the bank by certain persons. As a result of this part of the solutions contained in the law, the Government still opposes and welcomes the amendment tabled in Article 4 proposed and eliminates this illogicality and inappropriate integration of two provisions of the law, which are not interconnected and are not related. It takes into account all the above, we propose that the proposal for a law, including an amendment that is ready for today's consideration of the bill, be supported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u41	Thank you very much. The following is a presentation of the views of the groups of Members. Mr Zvonko Černač will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u42	Your Honor! One more time. Notwithstanding the fact that the purpose of the law has been to some extent eliminated, we will support this law in the SDS Group, not least because it stems from an analysis of the situation in the field governed by this law, also comes from the working material prepared by the Working Group of the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision, entitled The Principles of Corporate Governance. They provide, inter alia, that conflicts of interest may arise between the bank and its clients and members of the Board of Directors or members of the Supervisory Board and the bank’s leading staff when the bank enters into a business relationship with a legal person owned by a member of the Board of Directors. As regards conflicts of interest, however, as regards the bank owned and controlled by the State, a complete administrative separation of ownership and bank supervision functions must be carried out in order to reduce political interference with the supervision of the bank. Where we are in Slovenia in this area, as far as the largest state bank is concerned, we can see in the past, when the worst crisis in the first half of 2009 occurred in the past, when political personnel collapsed for the city of the principal chair in this largest Ljubljana bank. The man who was supposed to sit here in the parliamentary chair, in a seat emptied by the president of LDS and then occupied Anton Anderlič, sat at this hot chair, because of the trainpower in the coalition he was relatively quickly replaced, and the economy was stuttering for six months because he had no response to the economic crisis. This fluctuation also continued later when it was found that the deep-seated, unwise investments, the false transfers in this bank were enormous. It would be time for us to find out what they are. Given the information that the bank needs a billion euros of heavy financial injections, we are concerned. A billion euros, ladies and gentlemen, is the amount that the so-called pension reform will not bring in ten years of implementation. Here at the largest state bank, however, there is a rolling, inefficient management and every day new information on how many such false plasmas have been carried out in the markets of the former Yugoslavia. We learned about €60 million or €70 million in Serbia a week ago. On Monday, Croatian media reported some €10 million in Croatia. I'm not talking about the plasma in the imported sports stadium project, which will never return the funds invested and so on. But that's not enough. This case is not enough. This government is similarly engaged in the rescue of another state bank, in a similar way and indirectly with tax money. This will also undermine the functioning of those companies that are well-functioning and well-functioning. Thus, we will not bring to our knees just two state banks, including a number of companies that are good and which could properly channel their placements into the activities that have created them, will also be prevented from doing business. This law will not, of course, solve all these problems, no matter how you screw it up in this legislative procedure. It only means one way, it indicates one way by which the government should ensure transparency of operations in the bank itself, by ensuring transparency of business between the State bank and those in charge of managing it, and in transparency of business towards those who are its supervisors in the Bank of Slovenia and the National Assembly. On the other hand, by moving away from direct political decisions as regards specific business decisions in these entities. And if this novel is traversed for the first time on this move, then we are the proponents, despite the fact that you have needlessly frizzed the law and reduced its meaning, we are satisfied. And we are also pleased because, in December, a part of the ruling coalition realized that it was worth supporting. I wouldn't say it was a dispute between you in this case, but in this case it was a look at the problem management that we all have in common and where we should never be divided into rulings and everyone else. In these relationships, which arise mainly in the largest state bank and in connection with the management of various companies, which are also in the role of supervisors of these same banks, there is one set of extremely strange relationships. It was too late for one of the CEOs of a state-owned company to resign. He sat in this chair for 27 years. This is an absolute too long period to ensure the efficient, cost-effective and transparent operation of such a company. Especially because he was at the same time the President of the Supervisory Board of the second largest state bank. Will we ever know how much unnecessary damage this persistence has caused and because of this conflict of interest caused to this state bank, this country, all of us, all of us taxpayers? We'll never know. However, in future such cases and similar cases, we should try to prevent or enforce the responsibility of those who are obliged to ensure that such cases are prevented.This novel is the first step on this path. The amendment of coalition parliamentary groups will not be supported, because it reduces the importance of the law, is unnecessary and limits what was meant by this novel. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u43	Thank you very much. The position of the Zares Group will be presented by Mr Aloji Potočnik.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u44	Dearly noted, the main objectives identified by the proposer and supported in Parliament in the first two cases are, firstly, to prevent a conflict of interest between members of the management and control bodies of business banks, notably banks in majority ownership of the country and, secondly, to reduce the possibility of conflict of interest between members of the management and control bodies of financial companies operating abroad and their dominant share of banks established in the Republic of Slovenia. The intention was also informed to the European Central Bank, which considered that the proposal was a reasonable contribution to the resolution of conflicts of interest in financial institutions, which, in fact, proved to be an important factor in the global and domestic financial crisis. And this crisis is still going on, as we can see, its centre is melting and the dangers are ethical foundations, the standards of governance. In its consideration, the Government listed a number of regulations and instruments that have already addressed the issue of conflicts of interest both directly and indirectly, both in the current banking law, the Bank of Slovenia regulations, the internal audit, which is a mandatory body of each bank, and what else could be found. The proposal is a clear contribution to tightening the conditions for membership and work in the management bodies and the supervisory boards of business banks. The Parliamentary Group will indeed support the proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u45	Thank you very much. Mr Jakob Presečnik will present the position of the Slovenian People's Party's Group. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u46	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State with a colleague, colleague and colleague! The main objective of the law is to ensure that business banks are managed more responsibly and qualitatively, especially in those banks that are owned by the majority state. In the Slovenian People's Party, we support all the efforts that lead to the rise of ethical business culture and the responsibility of managing all businesses. In particular, this seems important to us in the state-owned business banks segment. Why? Let me put it a little bit wider. In Slovenia, ideas and thoughts about the sale of our biggest Slovenian bank to foreigners have become increasingly common. Not long ago, the Governor of Banka Slovenije publicly declared such thinking, and the Committee on Finance discussed it, and there were statements that the Government of the Republic of Slovenia, with the President of the Government, was considering selling or, rather, recapitalising the New Ljubljana Bank in a way that would be owned by the NLB as a new strategic partner. Let me repeat the position of the Slovenian People's Party on this issue. Slovenian banks have been and must remain the backbone of the successful development of the Slovenian economy and society as a whole. Slovenian banks are one of the key foundations for preserving Slovenian identity, as national, economic and thus political sovereignty cannot and cannot be represented without strong, healthy, stable, own finances. The sale of important state-owned enterprises is by no means the economic or social optimism of our country, as neither ecological nor social nor cultural aspects are taken into account. Let us ask ourselves what the welfare of citizens and citizens involves, certainly more than material benefits. Does selling to foreigners mean a solution for Slovenian banks? Absolutely not. The sale of a bank to foreigners may result in the sale of a bank to a foreign country at the final stage. There are few cases where foreign banks have been maintained in this crisis. Can anyone imagine that a foreign country would rule for the benefit of the people and the country of Slovenia better than the Slovenian state? Foreign banks in Slovenia are pursuing a simple goal, that is profit. Therefore, in times of crisis, they confound accreditation and flee home and do not take into account those dimensions that they take into account at home, these are broader socio-social and economic dimensions. All the developed Western countries have kept most of their leading banking and insurance companies at home. During this global economic crisis, they received financial support from the State. Errors and violations in past business decisions of our largest bank must be resolved individually in the institution itself or even on the way to court. By no means should we destroy or sell institutions, but it is necessary to sanction people who have made wrong decisions rather than dismantle institutions as such. Let me get back to the marriage that's ahead of us. The mechanisms for responsible and business ethical management of Slovenian state-owned business banks and the bank should be highlighted and maintained in Slovenian ownership. In this way, the Slovenian economy can still be successful in a competitive fight on global markets. The proposed law in the Slovenian People's Party seems to us to be a step in the right direction towards this goal, and we will continue to support it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u47	Thank you very much. The position of the DeSUS Group will be presented by Mr Franc Jurša. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u48	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from Secretary of State and coworkers, colleagues and colleagues! The urgency of the amendment of the Banking Act follows the principle of preventing conflicts of interest between members, management and supervision of business banks. This is mainly a state-owned bank. This should reduce the possibility of a conflict of interest between members of the management and supervision bodies operating abroad and in which they have a dominant share of the bank established in the Republic of Slovenia. In essence, the proposer raises the provision of a code on the management of public shareholders as regards the operation of the bank by the members of the management board and the members of the supervisory board, and establishes the requirement for disclosure of information from banks in the business contacts of members of the supervisory board that they had with the bank or in the bank of a subsidiary. Undoubtedly, the applicant argues that in this business world it is essential to prevent conflicts of interest from affecting the impartial and objective decision-making of these persons. In this regard, account should be taken not only of the direct conflict of interest but also of the circumstances in which that person has a private interest, which is such that it influences or creates the appearance that it affects impartial and objective conduct in the context of the tasks of a member of the management or supervisory authority of the bank. Such conflicts need to be avoided, which requires healthy relations in the business world. In the DeSUS Group, we argue and stand firm for the view that such influences must not only be sanctioned but, above all, be prevented, that they should be adopted and followed by such rules as would prevent the interests of conflict from occurring at all. The solutions proposed are suitable for support and will also be received from us. However, we are also favored by the solution resulting from the amendment to which we are co-signers, since it is more appropriate to define the definition of the persons to whom the disclosure requirement applies. That is why we also propose that you support this amendment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u49	Thank you very much. The position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party will be presented by Silven Majhenič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u50	Your Honor! At the beginning of this year, the RS Capital Investment Management Agency published on the websites the Company Management Code based on declarations, promises and efforts. Members of administrations and supervisory boards must treat all shareholders equally. Priority treatment by taking into account their interests in decision-making or information is unacceptable. That's the point, and that's what we have to pursue. It is unacceptable to treat it as a priority in terms of partial private interests, whether as a silent partner, as a shareholder or a partner or otherwise connected, because equal treatment is an imperative of modern corporate governance. They are always presented to us by the OECD ruling guidelines, the European Union guidelines, the opinions of this or one of the institutions, and when the time comes for transparent conduct, things disappear. The excuses are always too much just to go around the legal order. Therefore, we support the opposition party's proposal in its entirety, not because of Europe, the OECD, especially because of ourselves, to restore a small part of the respect for the rule of law. We'll support the marriage.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u51	Thank you very much. Mr Ljubo Germič will present the position of the LDS. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u52	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Madam Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! At the LDS House of Members, we have already expressed our view in our first reading that we understand the intention of the proposers that the proposed Banking Act should focus on relations between the administration and supervisors and define more precisely possible business relations between them and between the bank. Even then, we have also pointed out that we do not think that the most appropriate component of the bill at the time is that the code of governance of public shareholders is being raised to the legal level. The legal nature of the integration of such rules into the law itself is certainly at stake. It is an act which does not have the legal nature of the regulation, but rather the nature of the recommendations. The law has changed considerably from the first reading to the third reading, in particular, the provisions referring to the Public Share Service Management Code have been eliminated, which, according to the assessment of the LDS Club of Members, is both correct and correct. The parliamentary procedure also sought to improve the dictatorship, which defines which information the bank must disclose. Thus, Article 4 of the draft law, which complements Article 270 of the current law, has been defined more broadly and more precisely. At the second reading of the plenary session, the article was once again amended, which led to the substantive non-conformity of the law. Therefore, in the LDS, we believe that this article needs to be amended to serve its purpose. As we have pointed out in the amendment to the Law on Economic Companies, which also regulates conflicts of interest, we would also like to point out in this law that, in the field of conflicts of interest, we may have a weak law, but it is not a key issue in the law itself, but mainly in its implementation. Also under the responsibility of the administrations and supervisory boards, the Bank of Slovenia has issued a decision on the due diligence of the members of the management board and the members of the supervisory board of banks and savings offices, where, already in the first paragraph of Article 1 of this Decision, the rules on the conduct of members of the management board and members of the supervisory board of banks and savings offices refer to the standards of appropriate professional prudence. While we hope that this amendment will make the legal basis more clear and clear, we hope that without the specific supervision and action of the competent authorities and sanctions, the practice will not change significantly. In the LDS, we believe that at this point legislation also allows for a number of actions that would require responsibility both from the administrations and from the supervisory councils, but that there must be interest and will to do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Willi Rezman will present the position of the Group of Unaffiliated Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u54	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. Since this is a proposal for a law in the third reading and a half year's debate on this, I suppose it makes no sense and there is no need to elaborate on the individual solutions enshrined in this law, but on behalf of the Group of Non-Aligned Members, I would simply like to present the position on the law and on the amendment that is currently under discussion and decision-making. As far as the law is concerned, our parliamentary group expresses a positive attitude towards the bill and understands it slightly differently from those who feel that the proposal is now handicapped in relation to the draft. It is estimated that it is complementary and that it is also appropriate. As far as the amendment itself proposed is concerned, we are also convinced by the argument put forward by the amendments. In this way we will also support the amendment's proposal, which specifies more precisely what those who are still in the diaspora of those who might come into conflict of interest are. So our position is positive. The reasons for this proposal for the law, mentioned by the drafters six months ago, i.e. Members and Members, also seem to us to be justified, not only for this law, but also for other laws, which are somehow linked by content and have already been amended in relation to conflicts of interest. The solutions, as we say, are appropriate for us, only the way was a little tricky to these last solutions. Perhaps more than once, as has been the case in the National Assembly, it would be good to reject the Government's proposal because some law is too quickly assessed to be inappropriate. This path, not for the first time, has shown that if we do not reject the law, it is also possible in further procedures to complement what is meaningful to complement, to find even to this extent a similar interest so that the coalition and the opposition can face a proposal for support and also both sides support a separate bill. That's what happened in today's case. True, people in life find themselves in very different roles, in very different interests. These roles and those interests can be very often conflicted, but this does not mean that all differences in life should be eliminated. It is more wise to allow this diversity to be allowed, to allow different applications to be accepted and to be properly regulated and to establish appropriate control mechanisms. In this way, conflict will be something other than a direct link to abuse, as conflict interests can also be coordinated and cohesive then realized. The government, as we have heard, rejected the proposal first. Later, when the National Assembly made it clear that there was a meaningful follow-up procedure, a constructive approach could be said to have been demonstrated by the Government and proposed some amendments. The amendments were adopted and supported by, supported by, and supported by, a group of unrelated Members, thus supporting the amended proposal of the law. The only thing that remains a little unclear for all of us is why the Government did not support it and why the amendment was not adopted, which would also talk about putting the Bank of Slovenia in place to prepare measures to prevent conflicts of interest. This was proposed but not accepted. Right now, we don't see the most important reasons why this hasn't been accepted. Otherwise, we feel that the law is ready to be supported.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u55	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Bogdan Chapič.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u56	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Nice greetings from the secretary of state, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Social Democrats will support the proposal for a law on Banking Supplements, including the proposed amendment to the coalition, because we always support solutions that enable the management and supervisory councils of banks to function better, including for reasons of conflict of interest. This law is not some kind of frivolous proposal, but a complementary proposal from a proposer that corresponds to the purpose of the law, which is to prevent conflicts of interest. This is written down, but the feasibility of this will depend on all of us, especially those who will be employed in the supervisory councils of banks and in the administration of banks. We are fully aware of and support all those opinions and conclusions that only independent, impartial and unrelated supervisory councils and administrations can guarantee the professional and responsible management of each company, and in particular banking institutions that have a particular importance in the economic sector. The banking system is metaphorically the backbone and blood of the economic system. A stable financial system allows for economic stability and an effective credit system empowers the economy or the blood of the economy to develop its economic activity. However, it should be stressed that it is important to see how the supervisory boards and administrations in banks functioned effectively, especially in those in the largest and majority ownership of the country. In these banks, the country has a particular importance and responsibility. The wrong decisions of banks and the monetary system generally have an effect on the economy only two years or three years from now. Especially with the biggest banks. On the Committee on Finance and Monetary Policy, when the agenda item on the liability of banks for bank loans for management purchases is being considered, we have only found that the work of the supervisory boards and administrations has been poor and the consequences of this have been felt today. The operation of the Supervisory Boards in Nova Ljubljanska Banka and New Credit Bank Maribor in the mandate, when appointed or partially reconstructed by the government of Janez Janša, shows that they have not performed their roles. More. We're having trouble today. Let me just remind you of Mr Kordez's statement that banks offered him loans before the investigative commission. There's probably more like that. Or to overheat the construction sector, which today has extremely many completed, as well as unfinished dwellings and business premises, but in particular all these premises are not sold. However, credits cannot be serviced because it has fully stopped cash flow. Let us remember that the previous Supervisory Board of the Management of the Nova Ljubljanska Bank has awarded a high prize, so-called Kramar's million. Nor did the Governing Council lose its prize. It is true that this award was paid on the basis of a signed contract, but the supervisory board did not properly assess the operation of the bank, as today we find that banks require extremely large reserves for bad loans which were granted as a rule in 2007 to 2008. Although the Coalition has taken most of this million back by means of a special law on remuneration of managers, the question arises whether in the past the Supervisory Councils have played a role in the proper supervision of credit committees with regard to risk assessment and exposure to certain legal persons. Did these supervisors take into account the warnings of the Bank of Slovenia regarding overheating the economy? In 2007, the Bank of Slovenia warned the Ministry of Finance and Administration of Banks that credit growth was too high and that there was a risk of reduced securities and real estate prices. If the administrations and the supervisory councils had taken these views into account, there would have been no problem with construction and Taiwanese loans based on the flag of securities. In 2007 and 2008, the securities showed the inflatability of the stock exchange balloon, which is reflected in the current weakenings and in particular the loss of Nova Ljubljanska Banka and New Credit Bank Maribor. On the basis of such assumptions, the Bank of Slovenia advised banks not to distribute profits for 2007 and 2008 and to allocate them to capital in order to strengthen the capital adequacy of banks. These measures were not taken by the Supervisory Boards of the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Maribor Credit Bank. As a result, the capacity and responsibility of the Supervisory Boards and the Government and the Assembly, which did not adopt decisions and measures to prevent the payment of dividends in the New Ljubljana Bank and the New Credit Bank, amounting to 100 million and more in 2007 and 2008. This was the period of the government of Janez Janša, since there was no need for the majority owner, the country, to fill its budget with dividends from bank investments in 2007 and 2008. It was a conjunctura and enough money. On the contrary, the government even made early repayments of its bonds and thus caused on the money market additional money that had to be spent on lending to the economy. Today, however, we have quite a few comments that banks need to be recapitalised accordingly. If we followed the direction and direction of the central bank and the owners did not collect all the dividends, today would not be such a great need to recapitalise banks in majority state ownership if they were at all. By recapitalisation, we are in fact simply returning the dividends that we have collected as a country and owners over the past years and have unnecessarily filled the state budget instead of strengthening the capital adequacy of banks for a longer period. The Group will support the proposal for amendments to the Banking Act, which will prevent conflicts of interest between managers and supervisors in banks. Of course, the Banking Act will not solve all the problems that have arisen from taking too many risks by the bank management, which have been rewarded by the supervisory councils that have been appointed in the past.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u57	Thank you. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There will be a debate between Members and Members on the draft law as a whole. I'll only call those on the list you're on. Mr. Chapich has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Then Mr. Likar. Vito Roses to Be Prepared
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u58	Thank you very much for your words, Mr. Vice President. Dear Secretary of State, distinguished colleagues and colleagues! The law that we are considering in the third reading today is one of the rare ones whose proponent was the Slovenian Democratic Party and with the amendments of the Government survived until this third reading. I think that this is a fine example, but unfortunately all too rarely, how can a law, even if it is put into the opposition's parliamentary process, bring a little good will and willingness to cooperate to the end and thus achieve the goals that we all agree with more or less. I am of the opinion that this law, despite these changes, is still following the fundamental direction that we have sought to achieve. This is to prevent conflicts of interest between members of the management and control bodies of business banks, in particular the majority state-owned banks, and to reduce the possibility of conflict of interest between members of the management and control bodies of financial companies operating abroad and in which the majority share of the bank established in the Republic of Slovenia is held. A number of cases are known when one and the same persons appear in several roles. Thus, there was obviously nothing wrong with the fact that a bank financed the management acquisition of the company financially by the President of the administration, who was also a member of the supervisory board of the same bank. Or, for example, when the chairman of the bank's administration is a member at the same time or even the President of the supervisory board of the company that has obtained a number of loans from his bank for management acquisition. The conflict of interest in the management and supervision of banks is most pronounced among banks owned directly or indirectly by the State. If appropriate, effective mechanisms to prevent these conflicts are in place, then what can happen to increase exposure to harmful decisions in these banks, which can ultimately lead to the instability of the banking system as well as the financial system as a whole in the country. With the proposal for a law, we wanted to prevent these abuses arising from these double roles. We have proposed solutions that would more consistently oblige members of administrations and supervision in individual banks to disclose these links. However, I am afraid that these modified or frigid solutions will not fully address this problem, but these solutions in the bill certainly indicate the way to prevent many affairs that reduce confidence in the Slovenian banking system and consequently in public financial stability. I will vote for the law myself, and I will not support the proposed amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u59	Thank you. The word is from a representative of the government. Mrs. Vrančnik, would you like a word? No, no, no. Then I give the floor to the proposaler, Mr Chernač. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u60	Thank you very much again for your word. Nice greetings to all present! We have talked many times about who and how it is responsible for the bank’s credit potentials. Despite the fact that there should be no longer any doubt about this, we are again and again hearing from representatives of the SD and others in the ruling coalition this old mantra, how the previous Janša government was responsible for the managers' buy-ins and for the credit placements of individual banks that took place for this purpose. We know who the framework is, this is the Bank of Slovenia. It's not a government, any government, that sets these frameworks. The government is only responsible for what relates to public works, but not for all other plasmaes. And who was at the head of the Bank of Slovenia at the time, I ask? Mr. Gaspari, who is now the minister of this government. Who was then in this narrow headquarters of Banka Slovenije, which is called the world and something like that? Mr Božo Jašovic, who is now the President of the Management Board of the New Ljubljana Bank, the largest country in the bank. Who is now employed in the New Ljubljana Bank as management advisor? Mr Only Nučič, who was then in the lead of the Bank of Slovenia. In short, well-known old names. And that's what the proponents were talking about in this law. In this country, the system of collapsing, forgive the expression, is so strong that these connections – political-capital and they remain so strong that they control the country. This also controls all other financial and other mechanisms that allow, in individual cases, non-economic decisions, unreasonable decisions or, if you wish, even completely criminal decisions to take place. And as a result of these past benefits, for which the former government is not responsible, Slovenia has not taken advantage of all the opportunities that it could and does not take advantage of today, which is why you plan a greater deficit every year in the state budget, which you want to remedy on the back of pensioners with the lowest pensions. This is your vision and your option. When we proposed this law, we said that, of course, this law would not solve anything in itself. It will not solve anything on its own, but it shows some path and some direction towards this relationship, these conflicts of interest, when directors of individual economic systems as members of the supervisory boards of individual banks assign their own loans without adequate insurance, prevent and that this situation needs to be remedied and cleaned once, because you cannot come before people with a quasi pension reform and say, if you do not accept it, the country will fail. Really? Is it because of those who have the lowest pensions and who are still to be restricted that the country will fail? Do you know how much in the 2011 budget you plan to increase pension funds under an unaltered law in relation to 2010? For 53 million euros, that's all. The 2010 data is a billion three hundred and twenty-two, for 2011 a billion three hundred and ninety-five. That's the step! How long ago did you throw needlessly into the biggest state bank? Almost EUR 250 million, with you knowing, is the one who has the right information that it is dripping into the sea. That this is a drop into the bottomless depths that have been established in this bank over the past ten years and that will not be resolved until a transparent way of putting the balance sheet is put on the table, as we have proposed many times, since the previous government. As much as the government can help, the National Assembly could. If in the US the largest private bank was able to publicly open all the balances before it was maintained, and if they could solve the problem there, how could Slovenia not solve it, even though it was the largest state bank, by the way, about how the banking system would be the backbone and the blood of the economic system. Here. Does this apply to the largest state bank? Is that really true? Is NLB the backbone and blood of our economic system or is there an ever-increasing number of entrepreneurs who want to do business normally forced to seek support from foreign banks? Isn't there something wrong with that? When, on the one hand, a country with tax money is financially financed by the missed investments of the largest state bank, our economy must resort to borrowing loans from foreign banks in order to sustain this costly and wasteful country. How long will it be like this? Until this bank has publicly launched the balance sheet until all the depths are established, but not every so much is learned from the media: Serbia – 60 million euros lost; on Monday, Croatian media write about some 10 million euros lost in Croatia; hundreds of millions of euros of the largest state banks placed in imported real estate projects; on the other hand, huge flows to some foreign accounts in Liechtenstein, Cyprus and I do not know where else, in connection with these same companies. Until these things are cleared until this balance is made publicly and transparently on the table, until the country reaches out, apparently through law, to the largest state bank in a way that protects its interests for the future – at the same time, no reform on the shoulders of small people can be achieved in this country. You should have known that two years ago and not today. First it is necessary to collect the rich, those who have robbed all that they have today, to freeze this property, and then the belt can be squeezed if I don't think it's necessary anymore, even for those who already have it squeezed to the last hole. [[..]] We have tabled this bill last year to somehow pave the way for more responsible bank management in order to ensure transparency in the management of banks, especially with the largest state bank, and to consequently increase the confidence of people in the banking and financial system, this was the fundamental purpose of this law, and to prevent so-called fluctuations when one and the same people in this country, past the legal institutions of the system, control over the financial mechanisms and influence the banks of this country. Now in the beginning, the government said, "something has to be done, but that's not it, we're going to come up with a comprehensive system solution." These comprehensive systemic solutions, I fear, will be too late in all areas. The ECB did not give an opinion, it was said in December last year. Then the ECB gave an opinion, of course it found that there was nothing wrong if these things were to be settled, it suggested that certain formalities that were irrelevant should be corrected, in the light of the content that we are dealing with. And the opinion has changed. True, the law must be pushed forward, tried to enforce it, but with some fig in its pocket, because all those amendments that you then filed on this law, the law was destroyed to some extent. There is a commitment, a little more transparency, although it is embedded in these provisions, but this is far from what Slovenia needs right now. When the patient is so sick that he is almost on his deathbed, aspirin is no longer helpful. Nevertheless, we will support the law that we are proposing with the hope that, in the future, we will be given the measures of those who have the power to enforce them in this direction, in order to ensure that the situation of deep- and non-economic plasmas, particularly in the largest state bank, is transparently displayed and cleared. We don't think the government's path in this area is right. And it is highly likely that the largest state bank will no longer be able to operate in this competitive environment, whether or not you will find another mechanism for further recapitalisation. All these plasmaes, which were wrong and for which no one was responsible, weigh the balance sheet of this bank so heavily that, as some financial experts say, a billion-dollar injection in the form of recapitalisation probably cannot help it. But before that, I told you what that hole meant. This hole represents the virtually total effect of the so-called pension reform, 25 years ahead. And here we need to look for solutions and with these solutions we need to come to the National Assembly if we really want to reform the area of the banking and financial system and if we want our biggest bank good. Just as it is now that only every so-called "dofile" with new tax money is not the right way, but, of course, this bank does not perform the primary function that it should perform in an appropriate way to support the healthy part of our economy. In the parliamentary group, as I have already announced, we will oppose this amendment, which is totally unnecessary, and we will support the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u61	We conclude the debate on the bill as a whole. However, we are moving on to a debate on the article and the amendment tabled, which will be carried out on the basis of a review of the amendments tabled by 20. 4. I am putting to the debate Article 4 and the amendment of the coalition's parliamentary groups. Anybody want to talk? Mr. Likar, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u62	Thank you very much again. I have already said at the main hearing that I will not support this amendment, because I see no reason why a group of connected persons would not be included in the disclosure of this information, in addition to the immediate family members as envisaged with the amendment. A group of connected persons, a group of two or more natural persons or legal persons, unless proven otherwise, pose one risk to the bank because one of them directly or indirectly manages others. I see no reason to delete this from Article 4. The same is true in point 2, a group of two or more natural or legal persons who are not in a position to control each other, but are of one risk to the bank and are connected, so it is likely that due to the financial difficulties of one of them, in particular the problems of financing or repayment of the debt, other persons will also have difficulties in financing or repaying the debt. I support the dictates of Article 4, and I will not support the amendment of the Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u63	Thank you. Mrs. Vranitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u64	Thank you for your word. I would like to stress once again the illogicality of the provision now included in Article 4 of the Act. Article 4 of the Act refers to Article 207 of the current Banking Act, which sets out specific cases for which the Bank must disclose the data. As already mentioned in the introduction, the first paragraph of Article 30 refers to interconnected persons and not to persons who are directly related to the bank. This is the case for persons presenting a single risk and for these transactions with a group of persons presenting a single risk to the bank, the bank shall report in the context of its regular reporting. This additional disclosure of the data required by Article 207 provides for cases where a bank or one of the senior bank officials, a member of the board or supervisory board may come into a conflict of interest. Article 67, Article 74 and Article 164 of the current Banking Act, which already contain provisions on the necessary disclosure for cases which are intended to be covered by the inclusion of persons referred to in Article 30(1), shall be taken into account. I must point out that, in preparation for this debate in the National Assembly, we have consulted the Bank of Slovenia, which has found that such a solution as is included in the draft law on third treatment could lead to conflict with the other provisions and competences of the Bank of Slovenia, so they also invited us to participate in further discussions in order to correct the provision. In this context, I have also pointed out in my introductory debate the illogicality that the provision of which it is is, and therefore I believe that the amendment should be adopted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u65	Thank you. Would you like a word, Mr. Blacky? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u66	I used to say that maybe these formalities aren't so important, but apparently they are. Why is transparency important in all of this, and why should this transparency be extended to the maximum possible extent? This is because trust in banks is not strengthened if there are so much data in the media about any of these entities, which are in any way linked to the bank, its administration or the supervisory board, and which is found to be privileged in the allocation of bank arrangements. And then we read in the media about some son of the CEO of a private bank, which is very connected to the state company, when this son of the President of the Mercury administration, Mercury was "filament" with the money from the loans and is being saved, another company that has no such connections was not getting this happiness, and his balance sheet showed a significantly better state and so on. Finally, it is concluded that this loan was granted at a rate of 0.5 %, but you know that the chief of staff was concerned with the loan, where the interest rate was 1.6 %. And it can also be this 0.5% loan from this son of the bank's CEO and so on. However, when it comes to this related relationship, this must be public, this must be published. All those in this relationship must be aware of this and must know this, because different questions are being raised, the functioning of the individual financial institution is being problematic and, above all, it is noted that business is not the most transparent. We believe that this novel will not allow this to happen.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u67	Thank you. Mrs. Vranitz, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u68	Thank you very much, again. I asked for my word because I was obviously misunderstood. The persons referred to by Mr Černač are the persons referred to in Article 30, paragraph 2, of the Banking Act. With regard to dealing with such persons, we support special disclosure and are included in the proposal to amend Article 207. That's indisputable. What we want to avoid is that the provision of 207 would also refer to interconnected persons, not to the bank, but to each other in a way that poses a single risk to the bank. However, it is not directly related to the bank. Those persons directly linked to the bank should also be disclosed to those persons, either as novels or as already mentioned before, giving the legal basis for the disclosure of such transactions to banks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u69	Thank you. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u70	I didn't say this guy got a loan from this bank, but he got it all right at an x-bank. That's what I'm talking about. And in this sense, as you say, this information will not be made public. There is also no reason why the provision should be limited to only one part of this Article. If we want to ensure transparency, where there is an obstacle, that we do not fully guarantee it, or that we do not have to provide it in any way. But you can see where these things have brought us in the past. And even if this law is now to be passed to the full or to a limited extent, as your amendments do, it is a small part of the idea that these things will begin to be regulated. If, at this political level, there is no willingness to maximize matters, then it is quite clear that even for those who are tanning, they will be taken into account in such a way as to be very restrictively interpreted. But that's not a major problem. I think that it is an essential problem, not only of this law, but of the whole area of the appropriate functioning of the banking system in Slovenia, that this part of the system, where a large part of the country involved has not been functioning economically for some time, does not work in terms of ensuring rational decisions and in terms of strengthening the financial system in the Republic of Slovenia, but works in terms of providing individual positions to individuals who have, in the past, collapsed after the individual faults of this system and are controlled – independently of any authority and independently of any government and Parliament. And that's the problem. And the purpose of this law was not to solve all these issues, but it was a small contribution to finally getting these issues resolved. Now they are not saved and these depths that have arisen are the result of this very inefficient and related business, which is why there is an increasing financial hole in the country, as you cover these depths from the state budget, while at the same time you want to draw funds from pensioners with the lowest pensions. And that's the main problem in this country. Instead of taking measures and laws that will restore what has been unduly alienated and all these unwise investments, from those who are beneficiaries of these funds, these unwise investments will now be made, not for the first time, because the NLB has already been rehabilitated, like the Bank of Koper, indeed those through the General Navigation, will pay those with the lowest pensions, and this through the so-called pension reform, on which the Prime Minister says that if it doesn't happen, the collapse of the state, and your Minister says, "Oh, because nothing bad, even if it doesn't happen, because we have an intervention law, we will extend it, there is no problem."
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u71	Thank you. Anyone else would like to discuss Article 4 and the amendment to this Article? No, no, no. I shall then conclude the debate on the amendment, which will be decided on Tuesday, 3 May, in the framework of the votes, in accordance with the timing of the meeting of the National Assembly. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 17. At the end of the day, that's the first defense motion for a state's attorney's office. The draft law was tabled by the Government for consideration by the National Assembly. With regard to this bill, a group of 20 Members and Members with the first-signed Milan Gumzar requested that the National Assembly hold a general debate. To further explain the bill, I give the floor to the representative of the Government to Mr Boštjan Škrlec, State Secretary at the Ministry of Justice. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u72	Mr Vice President, honourable Members and Members, welcome! You have before you the bill on the State Prosecutor's Office. The reason and the reason for the draft law before you are so concrete are the data provided by the joint annual reports on the work of the state prosecutors, as well as other empirical findings. For these have convinced us that the expectations of both the professional and other public regarding the results of the prosecution's work have not been met satisfactorily. This is particularly the case in the area of combating economic crime. We have been able to witness for a long time all the dimensions of this type of crime that comes with new and new dimensions, and unfortunately, the state's prosecution is not in favour of this in all its efforts. Thus, last March we developed thesis on the drafting of a new law and then started intensive coordination with the professional public in particular. After receiving a response to the above-mentioned issues in the second half of April last year, we drafted the first draft of the new law. The draft was further considered extremely in-depth by the representatives of the prosecution organisation. We have carried out five large-scale and intensive coordination meetings with them and have tried to take the best possible account of their proposals, comments, opinions and, of course, still pursue our fundamental objectives. These include: strengthening the independence of the State Prosecutor, re-establishing the position, composition and competence of the State Prosecutor's Council, establishing the normative basis for the establishment of strategic programmes for the work of the State Prosecutors, including senior state prosecutors in the management and work of the State Prosecutor's Offices, and revamping the organisation and working methods of the Public Prosecutor's Group for the prosecution of organised crime. The bill advocates a centralised state prosecutor's office at the level of coordination, direction and supervision. At the level of the performance of the functions of state prosecutors, however, the elements of decentralisation are essential. For example, the design of the centralised state prosecutor's office has been preserved, but not only on the basis of hierarchical authority, but rather on the basis of a well-defined uniform policy of prosecution. However, in its implementation, by means of strictly defined levers, it shall, through general instructions and taking over matters, retain and further safeguard the independence of the individual state prosecutor as the holder of the law enforcement function. By transferring the implementation of prosecutions in specific cases to the level of District Attorneys' Offices, the Attorney General's Office is placing the prosecution's direction and not its implementation. It thus retains an impartial supervisory and educational role that is clearly separate from decision-making in specific matters. The law also provides for a more effective enforcement of the principle of the prudential nature of prosecution by requiring general guidance in areas where changes to procedural rules increase the choice between individual forms of prosecution. Thus an appropriate law of prosecution may be established for specific cases and in the light of the specific circumstances of the individual case. The Head of the Prosecutor's Office shall maintain the role of organisational and implementation coordination and ensuring the uniformity of prosecution. As regards transparency, its role in individual matters is limited. The Institute shall take over matters which justify the fact that, in addition to professional guidance, the Head shall equalise the function of prosecution with direct intervention, but with greater assurance of the subsequent test of the correctness of the decision on the basis of the request of the State Prosecutor to which the matter has been withdrawn. Thus, the implementation effectiveness of the State Prosecutor's Office is not impaired and the independence of the State Prosecutor is adequately guaranteed against unjustified interference in its decision-making. The law gives rise to depoliticization or a shift from political recruitment in the prosecution, where important powers are acquired by the State Prosecutor's Council. This is also a mixed body composed of members, non-indicators. The bill is becoming an important pillar of state-level self-government. The draft law sets a special, third part of the law for the State Prosecutor's Council as a single and recast body. It is clear, therefore, from the outset, that the proposal for a law gives the state-of-the-art world a special weight, including greater and key powers. The State Prosecutor's Council is given new powers in particular in the procedures for the appointment of Heads of State Prosecutors; it has an important role to play in the adoption or formulation of law enforcement policies; it will also be able to contribute significantly to the improvement of the situation through the adoption of quality criteria for the work of state prosecutors and the performance criteria for prosecution of state prosecutors. An important novelty is also the different organisational placement of the current group of state prosecutors for the prosecution of organised crime. According to the proposal of the law, the so-called 12th State Prosecutor's Office, which is called the Special Prosecutor's Office of the Republic of Slovenia, is responsible for the prosecution of the most demanding crimes, whose prosecution requires the particular organisation and special competence of state prosecutors and the highest level of efficiency. According to the bill, the specialised group will be strengthened, consisting of twenty-one state prosecutors, ten of whom will be permanent and ten appointed state prosecutors. It also upgrades the bill and thereby strengthens the independent position of the Attorney General. With all these proposals, then, there is a law before you, which, in our view, constitutes an excellent regulatory basis for successful prosecution management, which will have an encouraging effect on state prosecutors so that the results of their work can be better, which will undoubtedly strengthen confidence in the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u73	Thank you. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of the Zares Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u74	Thank you very much for saying this, Mr Vice President. Nice greetings to the representatives of the Ministry and all the colleagues and colleagues present! The Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, which is before us today, has been amended seven times, and it is possible that these additions and amendments make the current law imprecise, a shot, and a recast. In the past, there have been many coordinations and consultations with expertise, and it is because of conflicting views and non-unity within the profession that some of the important issues that the law should handle have remained unresolved or have never been definitively addressed. Let me list some of the shortcomings of the existing law. The law is not fully consistent with the current regulation of the judicial service, is not adapted to the amended powers of prosecutors regarding the effectiveness of the prosecution of alternative treatment and, perhaps most importantly, the law does not allow sufficient effective treatment of criminal offences. This is properly regulated by this amendment to the law before us. The drafter of the law presented the basis for amendments to the State Prosecutor's Law to the general public and held a broad debate. The Supreme State Prosecutor's Office participated, and the District State Prosecutor's Office, the Council of Justice, the competent and interested ministries, the Police, the State Attorney's Office, the Bar Association, all the Slovenian Faculty of Law and many others participated. On this basis, we can reasonably conclude that the text of the law is prepared professionally and will indeed serve a more effective performance of the prosecutorial function. What really makes us the most happy in the Group of Members – the new policy is a novelty that ensures a more effective policy of persecution. In recent years, the situation of persecution in the Republic of Slovenia has been assessed as poor and the expert group involved in the content of the law has taken into account the assessments and findings of the published expert articles, which point mainly to the lack of regulation of law enforcement policies in the context of criminality in Slovenia and the lack of uniformity in the use of alternative forms of persecution. It should be noted, however, that the Council of Europe has already pointed out the inefficiency of the prosecution of perpetrators of certain crimes in Slovenia. If I go back to the novelty of the law and what's essential. The Attorney-General shall appoint the National Assembly on a reasoned proposal from the State Prosecutor's Council following the previous acquisition of the Government's opinion for six years with the possibility of reappointment. The novelty is also the composition, election and competence of the State Prosecutor's Council. The draft law advocates a centralised state prosecutor's office at the level of coordination, direction and supervision, while at the level of the exercise of the functions of state prosecutors, the elements of decentralisation are significantly highlighted and could still be listed. In view of what we have said in the Parliamentary Group, we will, of course, support the new policy of law in the first reading. We expect that, at the level of the prosecution function, a number of things will turn out better and help to more effectively detect crimes and, above all, prosecution policies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u75	Thank you. Mr Guido Kres will present the views of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u76	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President, distinguished colleagues and colleagues. The State Prosecutor's Office is one of the key state authorities in the field of justice, as it is his job to ensure that all crimes are prosecuted properly and as such he is the obvious guardian of the rule of law of our country. In the opinion of the Slovenian People's Party Group, the State Prosecutor's Office must act entirely independently and autonomously and must carry out all its tasks with a view to the maximum protection of public interest and, of course, in accordance with the Constitution and the laws. In the Slovenian People's Party Group, we are aware that the work of state prosecutors is difficult, even responsible, and we do not agree with the flat-rate assessments of some that the situation in the Slovenian prosecution is generally poor, that some prosecutors act solely on the basis of political motivation and the like. It should be borne in mind that the successful or unsuccessful outcome of the work of state prosecutors depends on the successful or unsuccessful work of all actors in the area of prosecution of crime, most certainly on the police who propose criminal charges to the prosecution. In our view, prosecutions can be improved and the percentage of convictions can also be improved in the courts, mainly through the coordinated cooperation of the State prosecution and law enforcement authorities, and mutual competences must be clearly defined, and the functioning of all those involved must result in quality criminal charges based on the preparation of relevant indictments. This means the high probability of a positive judicial epilogue. Particularly problematic is the situation in the area of economic crime and corruption, where the percentage of rejected complaints is alarmingly high. In 2008, for example, the percentage of rejected, resolved corruption complaints amounted to 70 %. In 2009, only 6 % of the persons concerned were convicted in the same area. This clearly proves that the law enforcement authorities obviously do not do their work well enough or that there are inadequate predictive and criminal proceedings in which all institutions should act in a synchronous and related manner. With regard to the resolution of this issue, we agree with the bill's proponent, which seeks to improve the implementation and monitoring of law enforcement policies in all areas, in particular in the area of prosecution of economic crime and corruption, by identifying the expected work of accused or convicted persons and adopting appropriate measures. However, the question arises whether the countless tasks, programmes and plans envisaged by the new State Prosecutor's Office Act can effectively ensure an appropriate improvement in the state's state of affairs in the field of the prosecution, or whether this will merely constitute an even greater red tape of the prosecution's work, which, in the face of inadequate human resources policy of the Public Prosecutor's Office, could have exactly the opposite effect from the envisaged ones. Members of the Slovenian People's Party estimate that the State Prosecutor's Office already has many ways of directing the work of law enforcement authorities in criminal and pre-trial proceedings. However, the question arises to what extent the recommendations of prosecutors are taken into account. The Group of Prosecutors for the Prosecution of Organised Crime already has a wide range of criminal prosecution powers in the field of organised classical and economic crime, terrorism, corruption and other crimes, as well as the targeting of specialized police and police officers with regard to the detection and investigation of these crimes. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we have long warned that some things do not work well in the Slovenian judiciary and in the field of internal affairs and that they need to be changed in one way or another. We are aware that certain changes are necessary. There is no doubt that political pressure on the state's prosecution must be limited, and even more so on the functioning of the law enforcement authorities, which we believe are under even greater political pressure. Integrating current policies into certain criminal and predictive procedures carried out by law enforcement and prosecution authorities is an extremely large and complex problem. The situation is very worrisome, as direct interference with professional procedures improves the quality of prosecutions and diminishes the reputation of these institutions. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we also believe that there is a need to approach the changes in the field of prosecutorial legislation with caution and with a great deal of expertise. We estimate that without a comprehensive amendment of criminal law and legislation in the field of justice, not only the law on courts, in order to speed up proceedings before the courts, the new law on the State Prosecutor's Office will not be able to live properly. Therefore, we will not support the Slovenian People's Party's Party of Law in the Group of Members.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u77	Thank you. Mr Anton Urh will present the position of the Group of the Democratic Party of Pensioners. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u78	Thank you for the floor, Mr Vice President. Dear Secretary of State with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The area of the State Prosecutor's Office will be thoroughly renovated by amending the complete area. It is also considered by the DeSUS Group to be reasonable and necessary, since the existing regulation in many respects, which affects the work of the State Prosecutor's Office itself and in relation to the work of other law enforcement authorities and, last but not least, the courts, is quite inadequate. Above all, in the DeSUS Group, we ask ourselves whether, as a whole, all the authorities in charge of the prosecution of crimes are consistent and effective in the epilogue of individual prosecutions. That is not the case, it has shown something in the public of very receptive matters, which, as a result, raises doubts about the general principles of the rule of law. The existing regime of the State Prosecutor's Office as a law enforcement authority and a self-sustaining judicial authority, which falls within the framework of the executive branch of power, has become obsolete. Due to multiple changes, it is impractical. It is not in line with the applicable regulation of the judicial service. The organisation of work and the powers of prosecutors are not sufficiently adapted to the current increase in the number of crimes, particularly the more difficult crimes in the field of economic crime. As regards the internal organisation, it is also quite weak and does not contain adequate levers for the development of a single policy of persecution. The law before us is trying to resolve these shortcomings in a broader context, as many as three times as many articles have been addressed by the State Prosecutor's Office so far. We consider the substantive changes in the D.A.'s regime in the DeSUS Group to be necessary and meaningful, as we want law enforcement and justice authorities to do well – that is more, quickly, professionally and effectively. What are those changes in the area of the prosecution that, according to the opinion of the applicant or the Ministry of Justice, would provide a better basis for effective upgrading and improvement of the state prosecution system? Also in the DeSUS Group, we agree that the proposed regime means a policy shift from being employed in the prosecution. The latter shall be demonstrated in the manner of appointing the Attorney General, the heads of the District Prosecutors and the State Prosecutors, with a strengthening of the role of the State Prosecutor's Council. At the same time, its role is strengthened with regard to other powers and becomes the body of the Prosecutor's Office. The powers of the State Prosecutor's Council are clearly defined and will in fact approach the Council of Justice on them. According to our assessment, it is reasonable for this body to be strengthened by its powers, and a new composition, which includes the participation of external legal experts, is reasonable. The involvement of such bodies is appropriate due to the extended powers that ensure the greater impact of that authority, in particular in the design of the law enforcement policy, the assessment of the part of the prosecution, the quality and performance criteria and the protection of independence. The relationship between members of the prosecutions and appointed in the National Assembly would be balanced with respect to the appointment of a ninth member in the body whose position is set out in the Constitution. With regard to the mandate and election of members, the governing of the State Prosecutor's Council is also governed by the Rules of Procedure of the Council of Justice. The following major change relates to the transformation of a special group for the prosecution of organised classical and economic crime, terrorism, corruption and other criminal offences, whose detection and prosecution require special organisation and competence. This creates the so-called 12th State Prosecutor's Office, as well as a necessary response to the burning problem of this type of crime. In the DeSUS Group, we welcome the direction of the concept of the action of the specialised State Prosecutor's Office, which will also significantly strengthen staff. The specialised group will consist of 21 top state prosecutors based on the key of division to 10 permanent and 11 allocated. The entire organisation and operation of the Special Prosecutors Group will be adapted to the manner in which the National Investigation Office operates and to the specialised departments of criminal judges who are also strengthened by the amendment of the Law on Courts. We have already stressed in our parliamentary group that for the successful conclusion of the proceedings – i.e. for the epilogue of the court – the key coherence of the work between the individual competent authorities of persecution is, of course, in addition to the responsible and professional work of all. We have therefore assessed that the proposed way of working for prosecutors in this highly problematic area is well placed as it allows for the pooling of the highest levels of knowledge and skills that can be successfully implemented in the resolution of specific cases. The next positive thing in this law is the definition of a policy of persecution. Thus, it is intended to provide some guidance on matters that will be dealt with as a matter of priority, how the police and other competent state authorities and institutions will be guided, the criminal policy which the Prosecutor's Office will enforce for individual types of crimes and categories of perpetrators, as well as recommendations and guidelines for the successful work of the state prosecutors. In this regard, it must be added that the law will ensure the independence of the state prosecutor, which will also be protected from possible external and internal influences, while, of course, requiring a high level of responsibility. I have put forward key points which, in the opinion of DeSUS Members, could contribute to the full effectiveness of the work of the State Prosecutor's Office, and I am predicting support for the proposed solutions. I add that only the responsible, professional and efficient work of all competent authorities can bring improved statistics on successfully resolved matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u79	Thank you. Mag. Sara Wheeler will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian National Party. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u80	Honourable Vice-President, Government representatives, Members and Members of Parliament! The Law on the State Prosecutor's Office, according to Members of the Slovenian National Party, contains certain solutions to be introduced, but the law contains a number of solutions that we absolutely disagree with. Let me further point out the reservations made by the Slovenian National Party Group to the individual legal provisions of the Act of Appeal. In the Slovenian National Party Group, we certainly agree with the bill's proposal that laws must be transparent and adapted to the current social situation, because they should be considered as a fundamental principle for all regulations. Notwithstanding the fact that the applicant considers that there is no risk of politicisation under the law, this is not apparent from the content of the provisions of the law. Let me put some examples below. The proposed law, as well as the law in force, provides that the Minister of Justice lays down rules on the allocation, seizure and seizure of cases to individual prosecutors, which, in our view, is totally unacceptable. The law continues to provide that the State Prosecutors are appointed by the Government on a proposal from the Minister, irrespective of the positive or negative opinion of the State Prosecutor's Council. Therefore, it cannot be argued that the choice is in the hands of the prosecution. Legal experts also warn that such an arrangement is inappropriate. In the Slovenian National Party, we also disagree with the regulation that the mandate of state prosecutors is permanent in Slovenia. We believe that it would be more appropriate for Croats, where state prosecutors have a probationary term of five years, and only after the renewal of their term of office will they obtain a permanent mandate. The law extends jurisdiction, changes composition and increases the number of members of the State Prosecutor's Council from 7 to 9. Four members of the State Prosecutor's Council were proposed by the President of the Republic of Slovenia to elect the National Assembly. The law therefore extends the areas of competence to the President of the Republic, who is already in charge of proposing the appointment of various officials, such as the Information Officer, the President and Deputys of the Anti-Corruption Commission, the Governors and Deputy Governors of the Bank of Slovenia. It appears that the Government's covert wish is to strengthen the role of the President of the Republic in the Slovenian legal and political system, as they are constantly extending their powers, which in our opinion have already exceeded its functions, following the termination of only a representative function. We also do not agree with the drafter of the law that the new regulation regarding the appointment of the Attorney-General will prevent policy interference, since the National Assembly responsible for the appointment allows for the rejection of the candidate for the Attorney-General proposed by the State Prosecutor's Council. Slovenia has already established a special organisational unit at the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office for the Prosecution of Organised Crime in 2006. Nevertheless, in the last five years in Slovenia we have witnessed the rise of the worst crimes in the field of economic crime. The state of prosecution of economic crimes is not improving according to the information available. The new State Prosecutor's Act provides for changes in the organisation of a specialised state prosecutor's office to deal with the most serious crimes. We can only hope that these places will be designated and allocated by competent, morally sound state prosecutors with highly developed ethical standards, that we will not again witness to different railways. The case of former senior state prosecutor Boštjan Penk, who now defends the opposite party, is also legally controversial. We have seen the case of Vegrad, SCT and others, that both supervisory, inspectoral and judicial authorities have been completely concealed in Slovenia. Or, for example, Chief Inspector Brezovar, who does not seem to be at issue in teaching in companies during working hours, on the other hand, he did not use all means against those responsible as in the case of Vegrad. It is therefore a fundamental problem of the non-action of the competent institutions and their supervisors and officials and of the involvement of the policy. We therefore doubt that the new law can bring about radical changes and improvements in the prosecution's work. The success of the work of judges depends, among other things, on the quality of the work of prosecutors. In the recent past, countless cases have been uncovered that have fallen due to the superficial part of the prosecutors. The law gives the state's prosecutors the opportunity to apply for a specialised state prosecutor's office on their own. Given that there is now a chronic shortage of prosecutors for the prosecution of economic crime, we are confident that in practice only a provision of a law on the award of one state prosecutor from each district state prosecutor's office will be able to take place. The non-interest in trial in the most demanding crimes has already been demonstrated in the call for judges for trial in specialised departments. We further consider that the provision of Article 159, which provides for judicial supervision by the executive branch, is unacceptable. The content of the article, in our opinion, allows the executive branch of the authority to look into prosecution acts in cases that are not legally terminated. In such a form, the law on the State Prosecutor's Office does not have the support of Members of the Slovenian National Party. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u81	Thank you. Mr Milan Gumzar will present the position of the Group of Liberal Democrats of Slovenia.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u82	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Colleagues and colleagues, distinguished Mr Secretary of State, coworkers, welcome! At the Liberal Democracy Club, we welcome the amendment or a new proposal of the State Prosecutor's Office Act, as the draft law now in force on the State Prosecutor's Office has become obsolete, and the law has also become opaque as a result of many changes. The law currently in force is also not fully in line with the current regulation of the judicial service, nor is it adapted to the amended powers of prosecutors regarding the effectiveness of prosecution and alternative treatment, nor does it allow for sufficient effective treatment of more complex criminal offences. The law does not have the appropriate leverage to establish a uniform policy of prosecution and is not sufficiently defined in the work governing the career system, the State Prosecutor's Office and the judiciary. The building of the new law is transparent, divided into six parts, with the basic provisions in the first part and other large parts in the following parts. The draft law advocates the concept of a centralised state prosecutor's office at the level of coordination, direction and supervision, while at the level of implementation the elements of decentralisation are significantly highlighted. The position of a stand-alone state prosecutor has been strengthened and the possibilities of allowable intervention in such a situation have been clearly delimited from unacceptable. It provides for the protection of the State Prosecutor’s independent position – by prosecuting the infringement before the State Prosecutor’s Council. The latter becomes an independent state authority and acquires the authority of the Prosecutor's Office and has other important tasks. Its composition is open to members outside the State Prosecutor's Office, which strengthens the transparency, functioning and quality of its decision-making. The provisions on the powers of the authorities to appoint the heads of state prosecutors have been amended, with the powers of the State Prosecutor's Council in particular. The Attorney-General shall appoint the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia on a reasoned proposal from the State Prosecutor's Council following the previous acquisition of the Government's opinion. The Head of the District Attorney's Office shall be appointed by the State Prosecutor's Council on a reasoned proposal from the Minister following a preliminary opinion from the Attorney General. One of the key powers of the State Prosecutor's Council is to give a preliminary and reasoned opinion on the law enforcement policy, which will undoubtedly strengthen the position and role of the State Prosecutor's Office as the guardian of the state's rule of law. The policy of prosecution, which will be adopted by the Attorney General, and its amendments or additions can be proposed by the State Prosecutor's Council, will also be reflected at a more specific level in the annual programmes of the Heads of State Prosecutors, whose work can be objectively assessed both through annual reports and through general instructions. This strengthens the responsibility of managers for the success of their work, following modern management systems and the achievement of business excellence. The Organised Crime Prosecution Group is becoming a standalone state prosecutor with the name of the Special Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia, responsible for the prosecution of the most demanding crimes, whose prosecution requires the special organisation and competence of state prosecutors and the highest level of efficiency. The draft law abolishes the foreign departments of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office and the role of the chief state prosecutors is reflected in the functioning of the District State Prosecutor's Office, with the exception of the work of those remaining at the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office in the exercise of the state prosecutor's professional supervision. The bill before us regulates the actions of prosecutors and prosecutors and prosecutors in a way that gives them greater autonomy. The bill will also depoliticize the appointment of the Attorney General, which we also support in the Slovenian Liberal Democracy Club. At the same time, the proposal for a law establishes clear relations and rules between individual institutions and bodies within the prosecutorial structures. The Special Section shall be professionally and operationally independent and shall be responsible for the offences committed by officials and related matters. The State Prosecutor's Council is becoming a single organ with nine members. 4 beloved prosecutors, one of the heads of the District Attorneys' Offices is appointed by the Minister, with 4 legal experts elected by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic. Its competences are: to give an opinion on the policy of prosecution of the State, to take initiatives to adopt or amend general instructions, to make opinions on the proposals for the appointment of state prosecutors, to make proposals for the appointment of a state prosecutor, to appoint a chief of district prosecutors, to adopt criteria for the quality of the work of state prosecutors to assess the state prosecutor's service and the criteria for the effectiveness of prosecution of state prosecutors. Since we are convinced in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia that these solutions are good and essential; because we want prosecutors to have the highest possible degree of professional autonomy and responsibility, and because we want the topic of the prosecution to be depoliticized as such, we will support the proposal of the law in the hope of successful prosecutions and, of course, also in the future, in the successful issuance of judgments, particularly in the case of economic crime, as well as in all other criminal offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u83	Thank you. Mr Miran Potrč will present the position of the Group of Social Democrats. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u84	Thank you very much, Mr Vice President, distinguished secretaries of state, colleagues and colleagues! The State Prosecutor's Act is certainly one of those which has an exceptional importance for the creation of a self-sustaining, independent, high-skilled, independent state prosecutor's organisation, which at the same time ensures greater effectiveness of prosecution, which also ensures uniformity of law enforcement policies and places the state prosecutor's organisation in office from appointment to implementation of the policy to the greatest extent independent of policy, state authorities, governments and so on. On how to address these issues, practice has shown very different views and very different opinions in recent years. It could even be simplified to say that these differing opinions and views were exclusively linked to the staff composition of the Attorney General or the Prosecutor-General and the Minister of Justice. However, if we are objective and look a little bit wider, then the fundamental problem was not only a different workforce, but also a different concept and view of how work and organisation should be implemented. I would hope, I admit, somewhat simplistic, from the discussions we had in the national working body on this issue – and these discussions were encouraged by the work of both members of the coalition and members of the opposition – to what extent should the Attorney-General or the Attorney-General or the Prosecutor-General, as its leader, have a direct impact on the conduct of concrete procedures and on the decision-making of the prosecutors who conduct these proceedings, to what extent his or her activities should be more focused on the formulation of the prosecution policy, to ensure that this policy is implemented, in the direct role that he or she plays in direct proceedings, but only exceptionally; and in this way that a certain case, if the Prosecutor-in-chief and also the Attorney-General does not agree with this, it takes away from the individual prosecutor, but not to give him or her, in any other form, is to be guided by a binding procedure. For this reason, there has been a decision, in my opinion a well-founded – that is also the view of the parliamentary group – to make changes and to supplement or create a new law on the State Prosecutor's Office. Finally, it contributed to the fact that the State Prosecutor's Office Act was adopted in 1994 and enforced by 1. 1. In 1995, it has been renovated seven times and has thus far become rather impregnable. Other areas of justice have changed many times during this time, not saying that they are always necessary and good, but they are, and this has also to be done with the State Prosecutor's Office Act. We have it in front of us, the profession has held a thorough debate on its content, and I would simplify it if it claims to fully support it, but I think it is also not true what can be heard today is that it is largely rejected by the Attorney-General's Office, because it is largely rejected by the Attorney-General, which is not surprising in terms of the disputes that have also emerged in the public eye between the Attorney-General's Office and the Minister of Justice, and also conceptually in the debates that we have had in the framework of the national working body of the National Assembly. Nevertheless, I think that the concept of the law is correctly targeted, because it ensures better transparency and organisation of the state prosecution organisation, enhances its independence, focuses on its greater expertise and effectiveness, reduces the role of policy in this context, and these are probably the concepts and views that are particularly supported, and I think that they are also adequately designed in the implementation part of the law. One of the most important innovations is certainly the proposal for the composition, position and competence of the State Prosecutor's Council, which includes legal experts appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President of the Republic. In this way, within the framework of the State Prosecutor's Council, its composition is expanding, its role in the design of the law enforcement policy is increasing, and its role in the human resources policy in the appointment, promotion and quality of the work of state prosecutors is particularly important, which is certainly an important function that contributes to greater or less efficiency. In an organisational sense, a specialised state prosecution for the prosecution of specific, serious crimes has been established, and so far it has been carried out within the special section of the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, but because they want to put the new law on the line of organisation in such a way as to clearly distinguish the policy of direction and the work of the prosecutions and clearly also direct the conduct of the public prosecution, a new section is being formed, which I think is more transparent and better. The smaller role of authority is also reflected in the appointment of the Attorney General's Office; the National Assembly will no longer appoint, on a proposal from the Government, but on a proposal from the State Prosecutor's Council, with only a preliminary opinion from the Government, and the appointment of state prosecutors will be partly in the role of the State Prosecutor's Council, and will partly remain in the role of the Government. It is increasing, but not in terms of operationality, the role of the Attorney General, who should coordinate the work of the prosecution organisation to a greater extent, should not deal with specific cases, but play a more important role in the coordination function of the prosecution policy, and has not been sufficiently successful so far. These are some of the fundamental issues that, in our opinion, stem from the different perspectives we have witnessed in addressing the issue of the functioning and organisation of the State Prosecutor's Office so far, and which respond appropriately in the direction of better work and efficiency also with the new content of the law. We will therefore support the draft law in the Group of Social Democrats. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u85	Thank you. Dr Vinko Gorenak will present the position of the Slovenian Democratic Party's Parliamentary Group. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u86	Thank you very much. Your Honor! When I listened to the coalition presentations, I asked myself why we have Members' salaries. In such presentations, to read what the Minister writes, or what the Secretary of State or a professional associate writes, we probably don't need 5,000 euros of gross wages. I read the marriage myself twice. Thoroughly! I was talking about coalition presentations, Mrs. Wheeler, so I listened to you, and I have no comments. Look, some things were said in today's presentation. The State's Attorney's Office is no match for economic crime and so on. What was written yesterday by one of the Slovenian diaries: "Barbara Brezigar does not support changes to anti-Tajkuun legislation". Can we imagine a worse general prosecutor than the one recorded in this address? But look, Mrs Brezigar presented yesterday's report, in which everyone, from first to last, statistics talking about the success of the prosecution go up in her mandate. Next. Yesterday, the minister reported that he had seven prosecutors instead of 21 who were supposed to be under the new law, something that the law doesn't say on the organized crime prosecution team. On the other hand, from the month of August, Mr Secretary of State is waiting on your table for a job proposal and is not allowed to do so. Is this the fault, is this a lie, is this the hypocrisy of the Ministry? That's all there is to it. If we add such an address to it, then the situation is relatively clearer. But the situation can be better with the new Attorney General, probably also with Mr Škrlec coming to the State Attorney's Office, is that likely to be much better then, Mr Škrlec? Five meetings were held at the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office on the subject of this law. There could be 50 of them — no problem. No comments or comments have been taken into account, then do not brag about the five meetings. The worst shift from politics – the good thing that Mr Potrč has gone – the worst shift from politics – I will argue that this is a lie – is the occupation of politics in the State Prosecutor's Office and not a departure from politics, I will justify it later. The disputes between Minister and Mrs Brezigarje have also been mentioned and I will respond a little. Look. In regulated Western democracies, the person who convinced all 46% of voters in the presidential elections is probably one of the most respected and respected people. The same is true for Members, four, five, ten offers are received after the term of office, and this is not the case with us. Who's doing this, who's doing this? In the case of Mrs Brezigar, in the first place, Mr Minister, who attacks her, bullys her, pours out mandatory instructions and is stopped only by the President of the Government and the Constitutional Court. I will slowly understand and understand more from day to day the claim of one of Slovenia's largest legal experts, who said that in Slovenia we cannot talk about graduated lawyers, but about middle and higher legal sisters. I understand. If I'm listening to the coalition today, and if I'm listening, if I'm reading the law, I believe this lawyer is still right. Let's go to law school. As far as marriage is concerned, the following must be said. In 1994, the current law, which has 81 articles, was passed. Why does the existing law before us have 246 articles? What happened, what was wrong, what needed to be changed? Taking over the D.A. is the answer. In fact, the whole law is included in the state record. Compulsory instructions are further included. This is a mandatory instruction which has been retained by the Constitutional Court; it has prohibited the Minister to comply with this mandatory instruction. The Minister now includes him in the bill and on the right-hand side of the Constitutional Judges. This is respect for the Constitutional Court, isn't it, gentlemen? In its decision, the Constitutional Court also stated that it would also answer all questions concerning the placement of the prosecution in Slovenia's legal order. Minister – to the fifth and right of the Constitutional Court. At least with the law. It's like we don't have one. I hope that Mr Saiovic will come forward, as in my case. Let's move on, according to individual articles. In one version, however, it is also true that the minister has repeatedly said that the prosecution is an integral part of the executive branch of power. He's said that a few times before, or quieter on other things, but he said it. One of the versions of the law also contained the provision that it was a body in the composition of the Ministry of Justice. This provision is no longer in law, but all the provisions that are in law say that it is an organ in the system and nothing else. I'll get to the bottom of this. What does the Constitution say? The Constitution speaks of the State's Attorney's Office. And we're talking in this law, the Ministry is talking about the state's attorneys. You'll find it hard to find the words of the state's attorney, but you'll find the word of the state's attorney. It is said that the law has a clear direction: in Slovenia we will have 11 plus 1 state prosecutor's office and no more than one state prosecutor's office. The matter is unconstitutional, according to my opinion. Consequently, they are unconstitutional, in my opinion, 151., 154., 158., 160. It is not even clear from the marriage text whether we still have the Supreme Prosecutor's Office or not. It's not clear from the law anymore. The fact that we still have it can only be concluded indirectly through Article 186 where its operation is defined. The Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, which is merely a mere vaguely defined, is without all the powers mentioned so, "by the way", some of our neighbours would say, in Article 185 of the bill. How will the U.S. Attorney's Office issue general instructions on how to monitor and, lastly, who will write the annual reports? The U.S. Attorney's Office no longer has these options. In fact, the law says that prosecutors are independent and independent, legally and constitutionally bound. So they're no longer bound to mandatory instructions. They're not. However, Article 156 defines a supervisory complaint, which is lodged with the prosecution or the Ministry, past the Attorney General. What, then, is the role of the Attorney General and the Prosecutor? I don't know if they're even divorcing -- those who performed on behalf of the coalition. The Ministry can speak, as it is now, only and only with the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office and from there down. Today, though, it is foretold — what? That the Attorney General will play some role as a postman between the prosecutions, 11 plus 1, and the minister. I claim that the Minister is putting himself at the head of the prosecution's organisation as a whole and that in fact it is a body in the body. I don't know if Mr. Fisher even read it or not. Article 3 already speaks of the independence of state prosecutors, not prosecutors, prosecutors: 11 plus 1. If so, in short, no mandatory instructions will be possible. Then why are they prescribed in Articles 167 and 168? Why mandatory instructions if the prosecutor has to follow the Constitution and the law and nothing else? How can we ensure the unity of one of the prosecutions, which is otherwise referred to in Article 169, how? It is not possible for such an organisation. In short, a lot of words about the independence of state prosecutors, not the prosecution's organization. Just like in court. The judge is independent, bound to the Constitution and the laws. Three months or two ago, we accepted an authentic explanation that referred to Mercury workers and we all pressed the "yes" button. What happened? Independent Judge A said that they belonged to them, but independent Judge B said that they did not belong to them; according to the same constitution, the same laws and the same authentic explanation. It's independence. It is said that we will now have something similar here, and what is most worrying: to stress the independence of the prosecutor as a person, as a person, is a dangerous act. Why? You can't compare this to the judges. Each judge has three instances in the Slovenian space and some in the European area. So, it is possible to correct the judge's decision on a legal basis. It is true that this takes 15 years and that this makes a person a tramp in Ljubljana, as I have already said before; but it can. Stressing the role of the prosecutor’s independence means — what? It means that some prosecutor in some DA's office is just gonna say that this and this case isn't murder, and I'm gonna throw it away. Who else is above him? It is not in Slovenia, it is not in the world, only the blue sky is above it. The difference between the prosecution and the court is that the prosecution is hierarchical, in the form of a pyramid, an organization built up today. This is that the prosecutor must still be sued by the Attorney General. They have to be! There is great damage to this system because it stresses the independence of the prosecutor, not the prosecution. So the prosecution will occupy the left political option and make it a standalone prosecutor, which we will call on the phone and agree on a result. Is that it? Yeah, that's what you're assuming, even if you still have the Attorney General's Office of the current Secretary of State! How, then, can this be ensured? Where is one single article that would say that the prosecution's organization as a whole is independent? There's no such article. You haven't read many of those you spoke to. Where, then, is the legal, independent, and timely work of prosecutors determined? Is it even specified? Article 7, paragraph 3, therefore mentions legal, autonomous, timely work. Okay, but there's no surveillance, and then we have a railroad with 300 files that can't be solved, and they fall out of the closet with a bunch of cobwebs. So this is independence. So nothing will happen in this context. The independence of the prosecutors compared to the judges – I told you, the judges have an instantaneous chance of their decision changing, correcting or whatever, then they will not be with the prosecutors if that is the case. The current law allows for some kind of control, at least something small. It's called a signature. So the marriage is a step back. There's not gonna be any surveillance of the D.A.'s office. The Head of Public Prosecutions is losing control of prosecutors, ladies and gentlemen. The leader is losing control! In 173rd article, this post festival is possible; that is, when he says it is not murder, and he will drop the case, then we will supervise him and find him wrong, or we will say it, or you will say it must not be supervised, as the minister's brother in the administrative court. See, that's it! Article 10 Independence of the Public Prosecutor's Office. Look, we've got more. It's no longer a unified prosecutor's organization. So are we putting an end to a single prosecutorial organization? In my opinion, yes. The article is not in line with other articles, read it. These are apples and tomatoes and pears. It doesn't work together. It's not fruit. And in between, half a kilo of steak. Since the law does not refer to the independence of the State Prosecutor's Office as an institution, it is a hunch that it is a grave subjugation of the executive branch. I don't know. That's the truth. I'll get to the bottom of it. The article ties the prosecutor to the decisions of the judiciary. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, that's what the legal sisters wrote! So, the D.A. is tied to the decision of the judiciary. So you're not supposed to complain or anything? Will he even be able to complain? Not if it's tied to the judiciary and its decisions! Riddled with every logic. Well, there won't be any more complaints if that's true. The third paragraph provides that the government itself or through the Ministry shall determine the personnel, organisational, supervisory tasks. Yeah, bravo! It's an organ in the system. Therefore, if the Attorney-General has no influence on the bag of money to be allocated to him by the National Assembly in the budget, if he has no influence on the staff, if he has no influence on the choice, if he has no influence on the organisation, then he is a paper prosecutor or a member of the Minister. So you want to make a minster, obviously you chose him – or how? So it's no longer a matter of the prosecution's independence. So where is the independence of the prosecution's organization? She's not here! The first version even specified that it was part of the executive branch of authority, i.e. the body in the composition. Now you've thrown that ugly word out because you've seen that this could be against the constitution and you've left everything else in there, and you've cemented it even a little bit more. There is a possibility of interference between the government and the minister in many articles. The government will be able, as well as the minister, to intervene at any time in the work of the prosecutors – but be careful, the article below will tell you – in the immediate work of the prosecutor. This means: the government or the minister will call him at any time, whether he goes into control, or anything, a specific prosecutor, an open case, and he will tell him to bring it to him to review what he's doing. The government should have administrative control over the prosecutor's work, not substantive. What does the government have to do with this? It would be better if we ruled. So it's a secret organ in the system. The actual situation is, according to the law, that the Minister of State through the Attorney-General is acting as the Attorney-General. It's as clear as day. Article 14 - Repetitive content of Article 1! What else can't you copy-paste? You can't even copy-paste or what? Why do you have to repeat that? The second paragraph – all state prosecutors are budgetary consumers. So if we had one item in the budget now, we're going to have 11 plus 1. Why is that? So you can blackmail 11 prosecutors plus 1. That's it! And then they'll have their pipe, and then it'll be just like the government will say. See, that's it.Oh, my God! Article 15 – Again unnecessary repetition. For the Italian and Hungarian national communities in terms of costs, without connection, as it is written in the law. You will not judge or persecute Hungary and Italy according to any other regulations! It's normal, it's an integral part of the budget and it's over. What do national communities have with a specific budget item? They don't need it. They're all equal. Article 17 This is now proposed to the Minister of State Prosecutor's Order. So, the Attorney General is proposing a court order. Now it won't be like this. According to the new Attorney General, the Prosecutor-General gives an opinion and the Prosecutor's order is written down by the Minister. Did you see that? This is independence, independence is it — what one of you stressed, and now you do not want to listen. This is due to the decision of the Constitutional Court. This is also decided by the Constitutional Court — not an intervention! The state-of-the-art regulation is a key professional rule. The state-of-the-art regulation is a key professional rule. Now it's written by the minister. I don't know if anyone's broken up or what? This is new evidence that the Minister intends to lead the prosecution. I publicly ask Mr. candidate Fisher to say whether he supports this law or not? After all, he'll be in charge of the prosecution in 14 days. Article 18 Protection of the independence of state prosecutors. Did you see that? What about protecting the state's attorney's office as a whole? No, no, it won't happen again! Without the autonomy of the state prosecutor's office as a whole, there is no autonomy of state prosecutors. If you don't have an institution secured, then you can't talk about the independence of an individual prosecutor. The second paragraph — copy, duplication of Article 102 — is clear. The powers of the State Prosecutor’s Office — quite similar to Article 7 — could at least be clarified by re-appealing offences to the Prosecutor’s Office. Did you notice that to those who praised the law? He's taking the offenses to the D.A.'s office! I don't know why. I don't know why he's taking offenses to the D.A.'s office. Like we're not supposed to be dealing with serious crime, they're going to be dealing with crimes now, or what? Article 21 The second and fifth paragraphs are in total contradiction — representation before the courts. Too much professional stuff, I have no sense of explaining it, just the ones you wrote, just look. Article 31 The Head of Public Prosecutions must consult the College on the candidate. So, the DA in Cello, the leader, is going to want to hire someone, and now he needs to consult with the college. Isn't that democratic? That's a really big degree of democracy! Do you know what consultations bring? Don't you know of a case where a lady couldn't become a deputy prosecutor for consulting a college? Today she is the supreme judge; but she is able to do so, and she was not able to be there. You see, this is a consultation. The State Prosecutor's Council, by a two-thirds majority, proposes the name of the candidate for the Attorney-General's Office, okay. The minister can say no. Did you see that? The minister can say no. Then what are you talking about democracy, about the classic, beautiful composition of this State Prosecutor's Council, which I'm going to talk about, but if the minister at the most important task says no? Article 44 The Head of Public Prosecutor's Office must provide a record of the duties – you will not believe who: the Minister! In addition to the Attorney General, the Minister. Thus, the Minister will now deal with the records of the on-calls, who will be on duty in Murski Sobota on 21 October 2011, and who will be in Koper. That's the minister's job, isn't it? Unbelievable! The minister can do this within the framework of administrative supervision, but he has nothing to look at — what will they do to him? Articles 79 to 92 – disciplinary responsibility. Inscribed, in quotations, understand how much you want disciplinary violations and fine principles, like the chrysanthemums on November 1st. Look, the disciplinary procedure is fast. Yes, it is. How many years, how many months, how many days? Quick? As a chrysanthemum for November 1st, so to speak. The instigator of the disciplinary procedure is also a new minister. The Second Instance Court has four judges and two prosecutions. So, the instigator, not just the instigator, I apologize, I add, the candidate for the disciplinary procedure is the minister. So, the minister will go to Novo mesto to sweep up some file from Prosecutor XY, find out whether or not he thinks something's wrong and he'll make a proposal for a disciplinary procedure. That's amazing. Second-degree court, look what he's like! Four judges have two prosecutors. The D.A.'s organization, at least for the time of the Brezigars, should be tightened. What have we done, Mr. Secretary of State, with the lawyers? How there is — lawyers judge themselves! As for notaries, they judge themselves and find nothing. Look, this is an incredible case if there was at least some proportion to the courts. No, nothing. In this regard, the prosecutors will be in subjection to the judges. Yeah, they're gonna be scared! On the one hand, the prosecutor should lodge a complaint if, after this "scropling" which is before us at all, and on the other hand, the judge will judge him in disciplinary proceedings. He'll be afraid to write what needs to be written. You know, that's an amazing thing to do where it went. Article 96 Provisional exemption of court fees. I agree with that. This is a case where the prosecution has been prosecuted. I agree with that. Prosecutors will not pay court fees, they will be suspended if proceedings against them are brought against them. But, I'm sorry, prosecutors have salaries compared to workers who don't have them. In the bankruptcy law, however, you objected to the exemption of court fees for employees in bankruptcy proceedings. A worker who doesn't have a salary and fights for what he physically earned has to pay a cab. That's how it is. 97th Member of the State d.o.b. Council of State. The most democratic institution in the opinion of some, at least Mr Potsch. Look, today the minister has one representative inside, and the rest are prosecutors – professional, because the State Prosecutor's Council is supposed to be professional. Now we have four new prosecutors, and then we have four people appointed by the President of the Republic, and we vote on them here, these are legal experts of the Rok Prator type in the Commission for the Prevention of Corruption. Is that right? And then there's the minister. So, five people have a minister and four people have prosecutors. You see, it's the state-of-the-art world. So this is the most democratic and professional institution. In it, there will be lawyers who ask me before the study what the subject of today’s conversation is. They do not know whether they have come to comment on a flight to the moon from a legal point of view or to raise tomatoes from a legal point of view. It doesn't matter if it's on the left. Let's move on. What, then, is the professional autonomy of this body? She's not, in a system like this. So far, we've said that the minister proposes one, after a new one, this is his body. The powers of the State Prosecutor's Council are greatly extended. Interesting, but the Attorney General can't even be a member. He won't be a member either. The State Prosecutor's Council is thus becoming a governing body or even a management, management or even management body, but it is a political body, 5 of which is called a policy and 4 prosecutors. You see, this is great independence and independence. A totally unclear relationship with the Attorney General – I can't find it. The State Prosecutor's Council gives opinions on the prosecution's report. Opinions. Political, isn't it? It's a political body, like in the time of ZK. Article 110 The Attorney General must not take over an individual case. Yeah, then what's he gonna do?Oh, my God! Half his orders were taken over by the State Prosecutor's Council. He can't take over any matter. I don't know why we have him, like a nice mascot who's gonna walk the world or something. Article 111 of the General Prosecutor. This is the head of the U.S. Attorney's Office. So the Attorney General is no longer the leader of all prosecutors in Slovenia, but he is the head of the Supreme State Prosecutor's Office, not all prosecutors. So what are the prosecution's organizations? Assemblement of the Commonwealth Council : Minister. That's impossible! Look, the Attorney General at the age of 64 can no longer be a candidate. But with the Attorney General, as I recall, the age limit is 70 years. I don't know what the Constitutional Court will tell you. But this one is a flower over flowers. If someone was a candidate for the Attorney General, there's no conditions, you know what happens? On the day of his appointment, he gets the conditions! So, someone applies for the director of Postojna, Celje or any other hospital, and on the date of appointment as director becomes a doctor. That's what the law says. On the day of his appointment, he becomes a doctor. It's the same situation. Well, of course it's a unique and pearly selection of LDS, because he's done the same in police law. In fact, on the date of his appointment, he becomes the Director General of Police. It's the same thing, it's the National Assembly that's already on fire. Let's hurry. 127. Article Resolution of the Head of the Prosecutor's Office. For many reasons, among other things, "if he intervenes otherwise in the work of the prosecutor". What's "if anything else"? What would that be, what's that, "if anything else goes wrong"? So, even if he doesn't break the rules and act legally, he calls the subordinate prosecutor - as in the Bulmastif case - and he says, "You, did you look at that and that there?" That's a reason to get rid of it. 131-135. Article of the Collegiate Work. Headless pilot – college to college with a college to college. So many of these colleges are prescribed. It's just in the law. But it is always – I don't know if you've fixed it now – a drop-off specialized prosecution. That's not in any college. Unless there's a fix, I'm out. Taking over the warrants. Colleagues are taking over the leadership tasks. Collective leadership is this, this is inefficiency, ladies and gentlemen, this is a vague responsibility. The situation is the same as in the SFRJ Presidency — eight without a rudder — nothing else. 142., 143. Annual work schedule. Taking over mandatory instructions. The annual schedules of work are copies of what is written in the accompanying instruction retained by the Constitutional Court and copied into law by the minister. Article 148 Annual Reports — Do You Know Who Writes Them? They are written by the heads of the prosecutions, which is 11 + 1 writing annual reports. Where is the joint annual report of the state prosecutors? About this a little later. But the heads of the DA's office, 11 + 1, send reports to the minister. They send them to the minister. The Attorney General writes his report only for the Attorney General's Office, so we have 11 + 1 + 1, of course he sends it to the State Prosecutor's Council and he can't forget the Minister. I would say that we will no longer have a single report, but the law is unconsistent, as it is prescribed in article 150, when the Attorney General in the 13 reports, 11 + 2, will have to put together a set and send it to the National Assembly. But interestingly, we will receive a report from the Head of the Special Prosecutor's Office and the head of the Department of Forced Investigation. Unigate. I don't know if that's for a high-school legal sister.Oh, my God! Forced authority, look into the law, what it says, please! Well, that's what we're gonna get directly into the National Assembly. Article 158 Justice Administration. Third paragraph: The Minister may look into any document of the Prosecutor's Office anywhere and at any time, including open proceedings. Is this then the independence of the prosecution? It's not! Let me draw your attention to the next matter. In 2003, there was a dispute between the Police Director of Pogorelec and the then Minister of the Interior, Dr Bohince. The Constitutional Court has decided that the Minister has the right to examine all documents. In a police force that we don't say is independent and independent of the Constitution, but that independence is prescribed in the laws. However, the then minister was self-limited in article 2 of the Police Act and said that he would not look at all the cases brought before the prosecutor. No, the Justice Minister says he'll look at every piece of paper. So he will also look at the hearings, ladies and gentlemen, so he will also look at the hearings. That's what the law says. Article 170 Case taken over. Again, it is a matter of transfer of cases from the retained instructions. Article 170 even chapter and articles below — there is nothing to be done, a transfer of matters. So what the Constitutional Court has banned or suspended is now in law. 192–198. Article Specialised State Prosecutor's Office. It is intended to be made from the current organised crime prosecution team. They've been working for 15 years, have you asked them what they think? No, no, no. So you at the Ministry know more than anyone who's been persecuting these crimes for 15 years. They are trots and do not know anything, but the minister is the smartest; there is no need to ask them for an opinion. There's something else that's interesting. The current head of the organised crime prosecution group will be resolved within one month. Is it in your way because he's too quick to chase the bulmastife? No one else will be resolved, but this lady who is dealing with the organised crime prosecution group will be resolved. Article 220 defines this — the one looking for it. Why is that? Because after one year, she found blood trails on the first floor of the Baricevic house, so she'll be resolved or what? One will be resolved. By law. Don't paint me! 199-203. Article 3 of the Section for the Investigation and Prosecution of the Abuse of Forced Resources. Look, there can't be an abuse of funds. A completely wrong concept that doesn't reflect anything. This section, or this group, is now pursuing all crimes committed by police officers or military officers, including carlambole, in their spare time, theft, corruption, or excess of powers. They're treating everything! And today you say that this will be a prosecution of the abuse of coercive means. I think it's an abuse of coercive means, and it can be. What would that even be? In fact, all powers are, in a way, forced, in a way, coerced, they always contain a threat of coercion. What, then, can this abuse be? Conscious? Could it be intentional? Out of negligence? It's completely unclear. The address is completely inadequate. Personally, if I were to change this address, I would say that they would be chasing suspicions of exceeding powers and human rights, which I think is more appropriate. But then there's Vomo and Owl, Vomo and Owl are new. It is not clear, however, whether they will only deal with crimes related to the service committed by suspects at work or whether they will also deal with the remaining crimes. I don't understand it from the lyrics. So if a police officer is suspected of a corrupt crime, who will deal with it? This is no longer clear. A few general words, and I'll finish with that. Of course, such a law cannot be supported, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear as a day. The law, according to our assessment, is not suitable for further consideration. It would be best if the minister took it to the door and hid it because it's a shame what he brought into the house. Shame! After all, people will be reading a magnetogram in 20 years, and I hope that this law will still be preserved somewhere else, because they could have it in law school and deal with it as a copy that cannot happen in Slovenian law as it is written, a reflection of the offensive, extremely unfair, biased attitude of the minister towards the Attorney General. He knows well that the Attorney General does not intend or no longer run for office. And he writes the law like he's going to be secretary of justice for life. Ladies and gentlemen, even if I were to play a role in the position of tomorrow's time, one would say that you would be pleased if it were determined. No, ladies and gentlemen, I wouldn't dare support it, even if the Minister would come from our option, because it's incorrect, which is what it says here! I don't know if you remember all the shouting made by the minister and the threats he had in the Baricevic case to Mrs. Brezigar. He threatened to write letters to her because the Prime Minister had to cut them! What did she do? She called the subordinate and asked him if he had checked everything out. If he did a good lookout. That's what she did. So it's a crime, but the cops said there were no cameras around 300 meters, and the press found them in one day. The police said that they had inspected the crime scene, and after one year, the one who would now be replaced would find blood trails on the first floor. So what did the Attorney General do then? Nothing wrong, but the Prime Minister had to intervene. Instead of being satisfied that he has in his own kind a person who has politically convinced 46% of Slovenians in the elections, he could be happy, he could be proud of it. No, of course she has to be sawed at every turn. I sincerely hope that this marriage will not happen because I will be ashamed. I sincerely hope that this will not happen and that the coalition will finally realize that it is no longer able to do so and that it will start dealing with some of the real problems of this country and not with the occupation of the prosecution. But for those of you who came out of the coalition, I recommend that you at least read and then speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u87	Thank you. We have concluded the presentation of the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate between Members and Members. Would you like a word, Mr. Shkrlec? Here, you have the first word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u88	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. I think that, after this presentation of the opinion, a few things need to be clarified. Otherwise, I don't know which law Mr. Member was reading when he was preparing this introductory word, which very much reminds me of the comments that we received from the Attorney General's Office, and these comments referred to some other versions of the law, not what is before you today. But where these flaws and mistakes are, I'll talk about it. I'd start at the beginning with the constitution you were talking about. The Constitution, which according to you defines the prosecution, and the main criticism is that this law speaks of the prosecutions. As in the Constitution, the title of the chapter of the Court of Justice is also the title of the chapter of the State Prosecutor's Office: that is true, but the Constitution provides in its article that the organisation of the State Prosecutor's Offices, in plurality, lays down the law and this law provides for the organisation of state prosecutions. The State Prosecutors are those units that carry out the law of prosecution, and the Attorney General's Office is one that, through the law of prosecution policy adopted by the Attorney General, directs the prosecutions in the exercise of this function and directs them at the general level. In the exercise of their functions, however, the Prosecutors shall be independent and independent. It is already written in the law, and you are very troubled by it, so it surprises me that in the exercise of their prosecutorial function, they are bound by the Constitution and the law, such a provision is in the law today, and such a provision is also in this new law, there are no changes here. If I go in line like your eyewitnesses were actually given or the charges, maybe even better. About the recruitment and the fact that the prosecution has been weakened by the Ministry's lack of response. Let me put it this way, as we have said many times before, the Ministry is reducing the number of judges, but it is not reducing the number of prosecutors. If you look at the statistics on the seizure of state prosecutors at the time of this government's appearance and the occupation today, you will see that we do not keep these calls because the number of prosecutions would decrease. In doing so, I would like to emphasise something that is very important to stress. There's nothing to do with the Justice Department. The procedure for applying to the organised crime law enforcement team is done internally on the prosecutions and the proposals made by the State prosecutor to the Ministry are not proposals for an increase in the number of members of the organised crime prosecution group. There have been problems in meeting cities in this group since the group exists. You must know that. She's never reached full strength, and she doesn't have it today. The law you have on the table today wants to create better conditions for such a composition to be better, allowing a large number of prosecutors to operate in this group. Because, of course, the objective, which we are also pursuing with this change, is a more effective fight against organised and, in particular, economic crime. I would like to point out that the criticism that you have addressed, which comes from, as if the Ministry were directed against the prosecution as a whole, is in no way true. The prosecution is very effective in the prosecution of classical crime, including in the prosecution of organised crime. We've said this a number of times. Of course, we want it to be better in the pursuit of economic crime. The figures we are looking at when we review the convictions data say that the percentage of those convicted of economic crime is around 5% compared to all those convicted of crimes. Where it is necessary to bear in mind that most of these convictions, these 5%, are business fraud, abuse waits and credit cards and so on. Serious crimes of abuse are about a quarter of a percent, not half a percent. But if we're talking about corruption, about money laundering, you're talking about percentages of it. It's one, two convictions in history at all. There is a need to ensure conditions for greater performance, and this law, which you are so critical of, guarantees these conditions. The mandatory instruction, which is prohibited, you have repeatedly stressed this, not only today, but also today. Indeed, the Constitutional Court has suspended the implementation of the mandatory instruction, has not prohibited it, has suspended implementation. But why did it keep him? Because it judges an article of the law, the law on the State Prosecutor's Office, that article which gives the Minister the right to issue such instructions. So it's not a problem in the instructions, the problem is in the law, and the law is the subject of judgment. And since the court is judging the law, it has retained the instruction issued under this legal provision. Why is this so stressed? Because if you carefully read the law you have before you today, you would see that these provisions are no longer in there. The Minister no longer gives mandatory instructions to the State Prosecutor's Office. Looks like you've got an old man. To keep the body in the D.A.'s office. Please, there really was a talk about the prosecution being more in the executive branch of power than anywhere else, but the fact that the organ was in the system, there was never a speech about it, please! In any version, and I don't know where you got that information. The law gives independence to prosecutors. Why the D.A.? Because the prosecutors are the persecutors. Prosecutors are officials appointed by the government and are officials with a permanent mandate, for which the regime applies very much to judges. And these prosecutors solve criminal charges in specific cases, decide whether or not someone will be in criminal proceedings or there are no grounds for initiating criminal proceedings. They're proposing a detention. The detention cannot be ordered without being proposed by the Prosecutor. For this reason, of course, it is essential that the independence of the Prosecutor is ensured in such individual cases. This is the concept introduced in 1995 when the law was adopted. At that time, a step was taken from the centralized monocratic authority to the polycrated independent prosecutors, who perform the law of prosecution and are bound in their work to the Constitution and the law. There's no revolution here that you're showing. Of course, such a responsible official is also responsible for the timeliness of his work. The law clearly sets out the consequences if this work is not done in time. Talking about a leader having no control is misleading. The institute of co-signature you mentioned also exists today. The Institute of Evocation, the taking of matters, is specifically regulated by this new law. Specially regulated because we want the Head of State Prosecutor's Office to have an instrument to ensure the uniform implementation of the law enforcement policy. Of course, the uniform implementation of the law enforcement policy is something other than dictate to the prosecutor how to decide on specific matters. This is not lawful under law, for by law the prosecutor is bound solely to the Constitution and the law. Of course, the law provides mandatory instructions, general instructions. These are general; they mean how certain cases are handled, in certain types of cases, where priority is given to criminal policy, whether traffic offences are penalized primarily by imprisonment or primarily by financial penalties, for example. I'm talking to cases. We'll understand what law enforcement means. Persecution policy also means that, from the top of the prosecution, a clear message is given to prosecutors in the exercise of their functions; that priority, for example, is on economic crime and that such matters are dealt with in a timely manner and that ordinary, rich or classical crime is treated differently; that resources are concentrated on what is most important at the moment. This policy of prosecution is created by the Attorney General. To speak of the role of Attorney General being evaluated and that this is some kind of usurpation of power by the Ministry is not serious. The Attorney-General will now have great responsibility when he has to present and adopt, of course, a policy of persecution and stand behind it in public. The State Prosecutor's Council, which is an element of external control, even though it is part of your cover, is acting as a decision-making factor in this process and is advised to give an opinion to the Attorney General and to adopt a law enforcement policy on the basis of this. Persecution policy to give a clear signal to prosecutors, what is the priority and how priorities are implemented. This is because there will be no later problems when professional supervision is put in place. In fact, professional supervision still exists, although from your point of view I somehow understand it as if it were no longer there. Professional supervision is exercised by the Attorney General or the Attorney General's Office through their attorney generals. These functions, these provisions, have not been substantially amended. Of course, this professional review assesses whether the prosecutor did the right thing in the specific case, whether it was justified that he sued someone, or whether it was justified that he rejected a complaint. This supervision is carried out exclusively by the Prosecutor's Office and no one else. So please, let's be clear about this. Insinuations are repeated all the time, as well as very clear deceptions, when the minister will judge whether the prosecutor acted correctly in a specific case when he sued someone or did not accuse someone. It just doesn't hold. No, Mr. Gorenak. Show me the article where it says it. The Minister shall have the right to exercise sole control within the judicial administration. This is the way in which the State Prosecutor's Office works: how matters are written, how matters are handled, how matters are assigned, but not how they are decided in a specific case. It's a family that repeats itself all the time. Yes, the key difference is how the file is handled and how the file was assigned, but how it was decided. The Minister has no jurisdiction here. The right to an examination, which you have mentioned so much, relates only to the exercise of the functions and powers conferred by the Minister under this law with regard to the enforcement of matters of the State Prosecutor's Office. That's what this article says. Anyone who wants to see this can read it. If, of course, we do not want to see this, then we can show that the Minister is all-powerful, who can now walk the prosecutions and review the files of his own free will and assess the correctness of decisions in specific matters; no matter how sometimes we receive parliamentary questions, in which certain Members require more control over the professional regularity of the decisions of some judges. Of course, these observations must be kept in mind that it is possible to emerge from the situation, that everything that is proposed is wrong and that everything is exaggerated. The provision that prosecutors should be bound by the decisions of the judicial authorities. This is one of those things where you obviously have some old text ahead of you. There is no such thing in this law. It is true, however, that even if such a provision were the case, this does not mean that the Prosecutor cannot influence the course of the proceedings in which the party is party. This needs to be made clear. The main task of the prosecutor is to represent the charges in criminal proceedings. To represent the charge, of course, means to participate actively as a party to a criminal procedure: to submit proposals, evidence, to lodge legal remedies in the form of complaints and also later in the form of exceptional legal remedies if legal conditions are laid down for this purpose. This does not change, and it is clear that it cannot change. You were also talking about Article 18 talking about the independence of state prosecutors. Don't hold it! Article 18 speaks of the independence of the Attorney General, not the prosecutions, because the Prosecutor is the one in charge of the prosecution. However, the fact that the State Prosecutor's Council is truly in awe of the fact that a little less than half of the members are loved by the National Assembly is a special chapter. You have defined the State Prosecutor's Council as a political body. Yeah. Of course it is for you, but that means that the political body is also the Attorney General, appointed by the National Assembly, the political body is all the judges appointed by the National Assembly. Yes, everyone appointed by the National Assembly is therefore a political body. Read what it says, who could be a candidate for such a member. For such a member the candidate can only be a legal expert and the National Assembly can indeed appoint him. But it does the same in the case of the Council of Justice; the Council of Justice, of which you spoke so well yesterday, in such superlatives. The Council of Justice shall be drawn up in the same manner: a little less than half of the members shall be appointed by the National Assembly on a proposal from the President. However, the fact that the Minister is supposed to be the State Prosecutor's Council because he has an opinion on the proposal of the State Prosecutor's Council is worth special attention. Your interpretation of the article was that the State Prosecutor's Council, with a two-thirds majority, submits a proposal to appoint a Attorney General and a Minister-General, what can he say that he does not? That's not true! The minister can say, but he can't stop the procedure. Parliament decides and Parliament can give nothing to the Minister's opinion unless you think the Minister is in such a position to dictate to Parliament what I cannot accept. The fact is that the applicant of the Attorney General is a body which is an external control body; the body which, apart from the prosecutors, also contains external experts. Prosecutors have a majority in this body: prosecutors are five, outside are four. Indeed, one of these 5 is called the minister, yes, that's what it is today. But the one representing him is the prosecutor; and not just someone, but he is the head of the prosecution and the head of the prosecutor’s office, the State Prosecutor’s Council is not the minister — unlike today’s regulation. Today, the Minister appoints the Head of State Prosecutors, and the government proposes the Attorney General without any proceedings being carried out before that. So the obvious that it's some usurpation, the occupation of the D.A., excuse me, they can't stand it. A record of the watch that the prosecution is supposed to send to the minister — a terrible thing! Today, it's the same provision in the law. It's the same thing. If the Ministry is informed of the organisation, it does not mean that it interferes with the organisation, nor does it want to. Disciplinary violations which are now a whole species: they are the same as in the Judicial Service Act. Same as for the judges. They're clearer, they're clearer, they're clearer. The fact that prosecutors are supposed to be submissive to the judges because most of them are judges on the disciplinary committee. I don't know what the problem is. Maybe the problem is you don't trust the judges. But if judges can judge the indictments against prosecutors, then I do not see any difficulty in them being able to judge disciplinary infringements, especially since you are always taking the lead in all disciplinary procedures, in order to ensure that the outside members have a majority. You have pointed this out today — those organizations that do not have a majority, even though you have made a mistake in notaries. That's where most of the outside members are. [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] Yeah, even with the bankruptcy managers, we've heard that they're on their own. [[...]] It's nothing new. Today the problem is that prosecutors have judges who will be tried in disciplinary proceedings. These same judges who are on trial when they are conducting criminal proceedings. By the way, even today, the composition is such that the judges have a majority in the disciplinary commissions of the prosecution. The Attorney General is the head of the Attorney General's Office. You found this doctrine particularly controversial. This doctrine is the same in law today – I do not know the article in mind, but I can also look for it if necessary. It is also clear that the Attorney-General of State is the head of the State Attorney's Office and the main task of the Supreme State Prosecutor is to provide support to the district attorneys who carry out the prosecution function. The opposition offers them in such a way as to give high-quality grounds to the Attorney-General for the formulation of law enforcement policies, to detect in which part of the territory there is more, where there are fewer measures; whether this imbalance is consistent with the law, with the principle of equality before the law; or whether in certain areas there is a need to tighten the policy of punishment, because in one district of the District Attorney-General's Office for the same offences, they are incarcerated in prison and on another condition. This is the function of the State Attorney's Office to analyse this and to support it with such data from the Attorney General, so that he can draw up a quality policy of prosecution and then monitor it. Because the supervision, if I say so again, is by no means through the Minister of Justice, but through the professional supervision exercised by the Attorney General's Office in his own hands. The annual reviews, which have been kept in the same form as they were in the current law, also serve this purpose; the fact that the Attorney General is given an overview of how the law of persecution is implemented and the policy of punishment in the country and that the anomalies that occur or identify them are equal to the mandatory instructions that are not available today, by the way, even though the law already has this provision from the very beginning. I don't know that it would be issued for any of them. One of them must have been ready, but never released. If I'm wrong about that one, I apologize. This is why the annual reports under consideration by the National Assembly show that certain areas are significantly more active in the field of alternatives, while others are significantly less active in the area of alternatives. But the problem is that this means that some people have different legal protection from others; it depends on where they live. And that's not good. If I touch the departments and the new, the 12th D.A. What is the purpose of this 12th prosecution has been made clear on several occasions, the aim is to establish or ensure better conditions for a more effective prosecution of economic crime. That's the basic purpose. Why does the leader end his term? Not because it would be a special problem, but because today this group is a division of the Supreme Attorney's Office, and tomorrow it's the 12th State Attorney's Office. This is a new state prosecutor's office, and the heads of the department are placed in a completely different procedure than the heads of state prosecutors are appointed. No one forbids this lady to report again as Head of this 12th State Prosecutor's Office. As for the department of prevention and prosecution and prosecution and prosecution of the abuse of coercive powers, let me say that you probably have some text in this section of the law. Indeed, this text, which was formally introduced into the procedure in Parliament, speaks of the fact that this section is responsible for any crime committed by a person with police powers; even if he commits a traffic accident, even if he commits domestic violence. There's no doubt about it here, you just have to read it. If the address bothers you, you can also change it with the amendment below. The content of the article is clear, I am talking about the content of the article. I think it's clear from this that it's one thing to speak in general, from a position: everything is fine today, every change is bad. That's how I feel when I listen to this debate. It is always possible to discuss whether a glass by half is full or up to half empty, and we can discuss it indefinitely. The fact is that, without the instruments of change, the instruments made available by this law have created conditions for changes that will make it possible to work better. This does not mean that today's work is bad, I repeat, in the area of classical and organised crime we are very good. Compared to Europe, we are very good! The prosecution has achieved good results in this, the problem is economic crime and this is not a secret, and the prosecution is aware of this. By these measures, this set of instruments, which you are considering today, lays down the conditions for achieving qualitative progress here. Of course, they can also be interpreted as brakes. You like to use simple illustrations, but I think sometimes it also helps to clarify problems: a farmer plowing with a horse and with a plow, but it dawns every day three blades, because it no longer goes with a horse. But if he gets a tractor and pulls a plough with an entropy plough with this tractor, he will be able to ripen perhaps four, no more; but when he gets used to the tractor, when he knows how to use the tools and advantages that the tractor offers, he will, of course, mature significantly more. That's the way it is with every instrument. It is clear that these changes need to be internalised, that they need to be implemented in practice, that they will not go smoothly. It is clear that there will be questions, but the instruments available provide better results than the instruments available to prosecutors today. That's why I'm sure it's good to support this marriage. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u89	Mrs. Cvetka Zalokar Orazem has the floor. [[She's not here.]] Mr. Sylven Tiny. Get Mr. Franco Yuri ready.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u90	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. Hello to the Secretary of State! Comrade Gorenak and the Secretary of State have said so much about the law that there is almost nothing to add, which would not have been heard, but I will present my vision. As we see, this is a very demanding and sensitive law, for which neither the profession nor the profession has been unified, and even less I believe that politics will be in the National Assembly. The 1995 Act has been amended and amended seven times and the proposaler estimates that the law in force is not fully in line with the current regulation, especially in the area of the powers of prosecutors, which prevent them from effectively handling the criminal cases required. It does not regulate the career system, allows policy intervention in the work of the prosecution, nor does the independence of state prosecutors. In short, there is a flaw in the law. It is therefore necessary to prepare a new law that is to be adapted to the new powers of state prosecutors in criminal proceedings. However, as we can see, the opinions of experts, which the prosecutors in this area are undoubtedly very contradictory. It's hard to think of it as a layman. It is therefore right to weigh those proposals that say that the proposed law is good, like when it is found that the proposed law is bad and does not offer any improvements. The Attorney-General notes that the bill is poor because the work of the Prosecutor's Office is bureaucratic and the provisions of the law are unclear. As we can see, most prosecutors, who I think are the only competent professional personnel who can assess and make proposals that are dissatisfied with the proposed content of the law. It would therefore be appropriate to take into account proposals that are also based on practice and are the right ones for the professional work of the prosecution. But as we can see, this time it has not taken into account the professional proposals, which are at odds with every logic, since then it is not expected in the National Assembly that such a proposal will receive the majority support. It is noted that the proposed law assumes the powers of the Attorney General and the Heads of Public Prosecutions and strengthens the executive branch of the authorities. The legislator is not based on the actual situation, since the prosecutor’s work is influenced by several factors, such as under-occupied jobs, coverage in the main proceedings and, last but not least, by the financial salary, which has not been taken into account in this proposal. The bottom line of the unwarranted solutions is the lack of knowledge of the role and work of the prosecution, especially the senior state prosecutor. The activities of senior state prosecutors have so far been comparable to those of other European countries. The proposed amendment, however, continues to increase the level of non-compliance. The proposal stressed that one of the fundamental principles in the drafting of the new law is the strengthening of the independence of the state prosecutor, but, as we see, the prosecutors in writing do not see this. It would therefore be appropriate to re-sit together and to harmonise the bill so that there will be no doubt about the well-intention of the proposed law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u91	Mr. Franco Juri has the floor. Next one's a mag. Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u92	Thank you for the floor, Mr President. It is interesting to listen to the views of the largest party who is obviously afraid of change — acting very conservatively — and it is also clear why. They are disturbed by the news which is related and which stems from the fact that economic crime has not been sufficiently prosecuted. Pika. That says it all. At a time when the party that does not want these changes was ruled by economic crime, economic crime began. There was a system for protecting economic crime, protecting tycoons. It is therefore clear that there are four branches of power for the Slovenian Democratic Party: one is the judiciary, the other is the executive authority, the third is the legislative authority, the fourth is the State Prosecutor's Office, the Alyias Barbara Brezigar. Let us be clear, as all this defence of the current system is the defence of ad personnel; the defence of a person who is likely to be reluctant is a little awkward at the end of his colleague Gorenak also mentioned and presented as a strong political factor when he said that the person who received 46% of the votes was at the head of the prosecution's office. This highlighted the policy of the current system, which is centralised but centralised within, to manage all other state prosecutors and to redirect the work of prosecutors in a way that corresponds to one and only one political option. Now it's finally over. The new law essentially establishes a larger review, a greater autonomy of prosecutors; in particular, when appointing the prosecution, of course, it comes from professional initiatives, not from political ones. A party who has a vision of the third, fourth, fifth, sixth republic and wants to establish a pyramid system of control over the whole society is, of course, a party who wants to maintain the current ad personam system. A system allowing the Attorney-General or the Attorney-General of the State to act on the political will to mediate this political will through the entire pyramid and to master the system. This was happening and that's why we had the tycoons, so we had economic crime; therefore, no one has dealt with the key problems of this society and which are why we are where we are today. This needs to be told very clearly, in the afternoon: today we are discussing a law that will change this relationship. If there are no such changes, we will continue even with the centralised fourth branch of power, which will not be a tick or a mouse, we will not know who it belongs to; but we know that it belongs to one party and one political option. And that must be made clear, because that's all people understand. This political option is the one that protected the tycoons, including with the support of the Attorney General's Office. That's all. I think that now dealing with individual articles – the Secretary of State has already responded in a professional way and has denied all the deception we have heard from Mr Gorenak on behalf of the democratic party. It is therefore necessary to support this law, adopted as soon as possible, in order to establish the normal functioning of the Prosecutor's Office and, above all, the autonomy of the Prosecutors, particularly in the pursuit of economic crime.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u93	Mr. Magg has the word. Branko Grimes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u94	According to the predecessor, things need to be said easily. I follow his words. Really nice greeting at this symbolic session, which takes place on such a symbolic day in such a symbolic week. What is this symbolism? This week, the entire Christian world celebrates the great week, which has the symbolism of the Crusade and the ruling coalition and its government celebrate it with a public whipping, with the obvious to each other and with each other impaling on the cross since Monday, so symbolism is respected here. As for the symbolism of today: the entire Christian world today celebrates as the day of the last supper, and the ruling coalition, with its official arrogance, when it broke social dialogue, adopted laws contrary to European values and, contrary to classical Slovenian values, organised the referendum final dinner, which we will begin today in these rooms once a night. Since you always wash your hands in this symbolism, the government of DeSUS has taken care of it, which has washed its hands well above all else and left the coalition, even though it has always been its faithful work and held the stand in all this work, and today — by the way — it is not in Parliament either. So the symbolism is really great. What is the symbolism of this moment? In that it is tragic that obviously from all of this the coalition has learned nothing, for if, then, such a law as is now before us, it would not even be able to come to the National Assembly. This law constitutes a grave violation of the principles of the independence of the prosecution, which are essential if the state as a legal state, which is supposed to be after the Constitution of Slovenia, is to function normally. This is a purely political submission to the Minister of Public Prosecutions and thus to current politicians. Nothing else matters if we go from article to article. Consider just two cases cited by the Secretary of State. He spoke of the guarantee, which means an independent composition of the proposed Prosecutor's Council. Compared to the current situation, only one actually sets up a policy at the moment, Minister, all the rest of the prosecution alone. It's called direct expertise, those who are obliged to act professionally. Compared to the current proposal made by the Government, after which five members will be appointed by policy and only four by the profession itself. And that's supposed to be a guarantee of independence! This is symbolically interesting, but whoever sincerely believes this, please do not count – that it will be clear what I mean: if anyone really thinks that the proposed arrangement will increase the independence of the prosecution, then I respect his opinion, but, for God's sake, let such a person not count on coming to heaven, in accordance with that principle: Blessed is the spirit of the poor, why they are the heavenly Kingdom. If I limit myself to another comment made by the Secretary of State when he said that the Minister had the right to look, but not absolutely, because he would separate what was essentially an administrative procedure within the Ministry from the content. You know, the third paragraph of Article 158, if we read it, allows the Ministry to look at the files at the D.A.'s premises without any limitation, that is to say, even in the literal records of secret wiretaps and anything else that can be referred to in the files, has direct access to all personal data, to absolutely every case, every case, if you want that collateralized person in the files, let's say, if it's a secret audience and so on. In all of this, the Minister will have unlimited access to the D.A.'s premises. But then you have to keep reading; this article also allows you to request extracts, certain materials that you can then receive on this basis. That is to say, he has an insight into everything he wants, and he can still receive certain information and take it with him so that there will be no misunderstandings, in writing. How he will then separate the administrative procedure from the content, I don't know, but certainly the one who advocates it and claims that it is perfectly okay to repeat those words that I said a little earlier, because it is very difficult to take the matter seriously. Otherwise, I have the feeling that the Government of this proposal is not taking this proposal so seriously, because earlier, the Secretary of State was so cordially engaged when he said, I quote, "In the area of classical and organised crime, we are very good." You know, as I would, on condition, even agree and respect his opinion, he certainly knows very well in which area the Government is very good, but in the area of prosecution of classical and organised crime, and if we look only at the story of the Bulmastifs, you are quite limping, Mr Secretary of State. And that's the problem!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u95	Mr. Franci Kek has the floor. [[No, no, ……]] Mrs. Alenka Jeraj. Get ready, Mr. Mag. Borut Saiovic, if he's not here, Mr. Vito Rojej. Please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u96	Thank you for your word. I would like the Minister, as well as all of us, to do more effectively the work of prosecutors and the task, in particular the Minister or the Government, is to create the best possible conditions for the prosecution to be actually able to do so. In the last term, we have witnessed the Minister's efforts in the opposite direction: he attacked the Attorney General, exerted pressure on her and, of course, demanded and expected results. The reports discussed during this period indicated that the prosecution’s case had increased, but there was no backlog. Things have been up-to-date and we appreciate that the work has been good, but of course it can always be better. This was also pointed out in her reports by the Attorney General and pointed out in particular that the number of prosecutors should be increased. Under this law, the Minister has revealed to the Attorney-General that she has failed to strengthen the special group on the prosecution of organised crime. Yesterday, we heard that the Minister was not too successful in strengthening the specialised section of the courts in matters of economic crime. We have even established four new ones with a new law, and yet we have not been able to strengthen this one, so perhaps it would be appropriate for the minister to first sweep the threshold. The prosecution is certainly one of the systems that must be stable and cannot be changed as thoroughly every few years as it changes with this law when we change certain powers. As a layman, I estimate that some things have nevertheless happened since the date when the group for the prosecution of economic crime or organised crime was appointed. As a result, the case of the Clean shovel is finally dealt with in a court of law. During this time, the organized crime prosecution team has also successfully pursued or broken the heroin link and some such successful cases can be attributed to them. Maybe now it's a bit of a limp in court, and we should ask ourselves what's going on there, why they don't finally get this case from a court epilogue. The Ministry has decided differently and by law increases the powers of the executive branch. What does this have to do with the prosecution, with the efficiency of the prosecution and with the independence of the prosecution, we can only ask ourselves. The Minister will make new rules on the allocation, seizure and seizure of cases to individual prosecutors. For us too, this is unacceptable, perhaps those in the system can better lay down rules and ways in which some things can be done. The following is a change of the State Prosecutor's Council; now one representative of the Ministry, the other prosecutors, will be four prosecutors, four will appoint or propose the President of the Republic from among the lawyers, which means that they can also be lawyers, constitutional lawyers, judges, lawyers, anyone, in short – who is not in the system. Then one will be appointed by the minister. First of all, we can ask ourselves here why we are giving the President again some authority that he does not have by the constitution. More and more people in this country are appointed or proposed by the President: an information officer, presidents and vice-presidents of the anti-corruption commission, governors, vice-governors, including judges, and we know that he does not have the happiest time to do so – let us remember the last case of a candidate for a constitutional judge. In addition, a number of calls or invitations by the President of the Republic to certain posts have ended with no one applying, because they know, with political profiling, that they have no possibility to be proposed by the President for approval by the National Assembly, so this is certainly a bad solution and we cannot support it. In addition, in Article 102, we refer to the powers of the State Prosecutor's Council and, if they sit in it, as I said, lawyers, judges, in short, anyone who has a legal exam who is a lawyer will then give opinions on the policy of prosecution of the State Prosecutor's Office, initiatives to adopt or amend general instructions, opinions on proposals for the appointment of state prosecutors, assessments of the State Prosecutor's Office, etc. The question is whether someone who may have been a lawyer or intends to be a lawyer will be interested in the fact that prosecutors will be very effective — if he sits in this world. That is why this is a solution, which is quite incomprehensible, why the ministry has decided to settle these matters in this way. We know the case of the former prosecutor, Mr Penk, who then left this group or was suspended from it for known reasons and is now on the other hand, representing Mr Zidar. How successfully and with what information he may have obtained earlier as a state prosecutor, as a member of this organised crime prosecution department, we can only ask ourselves. You're telling us that we're against change, that we don't want an effective prosecution. We have proposed several times that such transitions should be prevented, precisely because there is no abuse, but neither the Ministry nor the coalition has supported us in this regard, which is fighting crime so much, and in fact is simply enforcing new solutions that are still making some kind of circuit work, so that we can come up with solutions. Furthermore, on a proposal from the Minister, the Government of the State Prosecutor is appointed, but whether the State Prosecutor's Council will give a positive or negative opinion on this matter. Then how will these people work if the State Prosecutor's Council gives a negative opinion to someone, we still call it? Don't we trust them? Probably, if they give a negative opinion for someone, there are reasons or there is no need to give an opinion if it is not binding or if no one cares about whether a person is rated positive or negative. Therefore, in our view, the law is weak and unnecessary, but it is in the manner of this government, of course. Those who are concerned or for whom we write proposals, the ministry ignores this in manner: we know everything and we do not need to ask those who work on it every day and in this system. Then they wonder why the marriage didn't end at the referendum. We will reject the law because we propose to the Ministry that, in the event of such concrete changes and the major changes that it makes or foretells – not only the Ministry of Justice, including all other ministers and the Government, we appeal to them to listen a little to those who write the law because it is only so effective, but not to work in a manner: we know everything, the others are wrong and you are wrong. Only the minister is right. Of course I will vote against the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u97	Mr. Milan Gumzar has the floor [[He's not here.]] Mr. Vito Rozej, let the Mag. It's a crane.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u98	Thank you so much for saying that. First, we must ask ourselves first whether we are satisfied with the existing part of the prosecution. Someone's probably gonna say, "We are." The other will look at the statistics, make recommendations to the Council of Europe and say, "No, we're not." Certainly not in the field of economic crime. To conclude that those who have done so so far know what they are doing and that they should therefore take into account their opinion, it is unlikely that they hold the most. If that's what they're capable of doing and they're satisfied with it, then that's not enough. Perhaps another view should be given to how economic crime efficiency could be enhanced. But what bothered me the most was, in fact, more than the content itself, the approach that we approach to this or any other legal solution. In the opinion of the Group of Members, Dr. Gorenak has allowed himself to be wise, morally moralized and to make it clear that we have not read the law, we do not know his solution or anything like that. I am glad that later the Secretary of State, better than I could, told Mr Gorenak who did not read and then set up a mirror for him. I believe that all things can be read in one way or another, but it seems to me bad if they are always read maliciously, and in this case, at least I would be able to read it to Mr Gorenak. Whether we deserve Members who have read the law on good faith, pay or not, or deserve it alone, or are worthy of the academic title itself, let anyone else judge. The solutions offered here are, on the one hand, similar to those already mentioned, at least as far as the State Prosecutor's Council is concerned, to those who apply to judicial service. So, yesterday they were still good for the SDS Group, not anymore. What I'm more concerned about when we're moralizing is that yesterday, when we discussed a law that would eliminate the privacy of officials, there were no comments and everything seemed nice and democratic, and also by a party that I don't know why this adjective was wearing "democratic". I think we should align with these basic starting points. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u99	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u100	Before we start criticizing in this way. [[...]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u101	Mr. Magg has the word. Radovan Žerjav. Dr. Vinko Gorenak will be next.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u102	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. One does not even know how to argue that there will be no criticism of interference with the so-called independent judiciary. If, of course, I can name the entire justice system. In this change of law, I feel that this change is simply to make something work or to make it feel that something is being done or changed. In fact, we transfer things from one pocket to another pocket, if you want. Of course, this law is followed again by big words, glamorous words – independence, systemicism, expertise, and other things – as was the case with the establishment of the Capital Investment Management Agency. Actually, we know where we went in this case. My assessment is that the legislation is solid right now, so I won't say good. It is solid, and if it were the will, many, both in the sky, would be able to decide, from various affairs, tycoons and so on, on the basis of existing legislation, not to say condemn. So, instruments, as you said, Mr Secretary of State, or tools, tools, in the plural I speak, are, but not used. This is a problem; the tools available to the justice system are not used as they should be used in cases that burden this country long and long. However, of course, I would like to point out in particular that the entire justice system is not independent, and the prosecution is not independent either. Of course, I don't want to generalise and do injustice to everyone for long and long, because the vast majority in this system of things work conscientiously, obsessively, in accordance with the law. However, we have problems, this has to be acknowledged; cases where things do not go as they should. In these cases, however, we have direct influences in this system from outside, not inside the system, from outside, they influence this system, from those who shouldn't do it, which should not do what I think is criminal. We've had some of these cases lately. According to my assessment of internal control, I will not list them, probably no longer work well enough, or they are ineffective enough to really inspire confidence in this justice system with self-control. We have such and different specialized departments, we have even new ones, and yet in cases of the greatest economic crime – except for spectacular arrests, such and other ones, when monitoring the media – nothing happens. Those who literally stole everything that came under their hand, under the assumption of management acquisitions, with the participation of state banks with a few hundred million credit injections, still walk freely through Slovenia or, during that time, when they are well left alone, what they stole, in one way or another, transferred to the so-called tax havens, which we will never see again in Slovenia. And we have tools to prevent it, and we don't do it. Why not, man really wonders. Why not? It's been years, two, three, maybe four years since the exciting tycoon, the manager, and I don't know what kind of takeovers. Three, four years; this is the time in which, I think, one group of people can get to the bottom. If one group is unable to do so within a few years — not one year or six months — then I wonder what is wrong. Is there even the will to get things to the bottom? Or is it possible that someone on the outside has some kind of stick, and he squeezes it between his tips, as it's called, that this bike wouldn't spin, and that it wouldn't go to the bottom? So let's let the tycoons go. What was going on in the banks? Why did these tycoons even get credit? I've said a few times before that we've been putting on the cross those who got the credits, but we haven't asked the healthists who gave the credits yet. On what grounds did they give them? Why did they give it to them? What are the basics? What are the documents on which these loans were made? And in a few years, not half a year or one month, in a few years of these events, probably all these specialized departments could have put something on the table by now. That's my lay grade. If, of course, we take our stand, seriously, for some purpose, they are on the move. With the aim of preventing this forever in Slovenia. Today, unfortunately, we hear again who is to blame that the tycoons were created and so on. I repeat, who gave them credit, what about those? I'm going to give another example from my places, which happened a little while ago, and I'm obviously getting involved in something, but it bothers me so terribly that it's a crisis. The entrepreneur who opened the company concept Optimum in Lendava a few years ago hired 200, 300 seams, received from the country that subsidy for the opening of new jobs, one hundred and several million tolars at the time. A few months later, the company closed down, we experienced, 100, 200, 300 terrible stories of workers who were moved into this company from then on, even forced. Some came from neighbouring Hungary to this company, had a terrible story, a terrible treatment from these entrepreneurs. You will not believe this, these entrepreneurs have been pardoned for a short time — nothing. If we now park wrong around this House, they will drive us away, we will pay the penalty, and if we do not do so, execution will come for a few hundred euros. Didn't these gentlemen deserve a parking ticket? For one incorrect parking! Only because of how much grief they have caused to those people, those workers, and the workers! You know, I don't understand this; these differences we have. I really don't get it. On the one hand, sir, a fine gentleman who arrives in a large car will come to court with two, three lawyers – to solve the matter as if nothing had happened. All the rest of us, normal people, we pay well, just like Catastrophe! [[...]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u103	Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u104	Thank you very much. A few responses first. If we really deserved a salary, Mr Rozjej, and read things, we would probably see that all the statistics are. Find me a single statistical data that goes down during Mrs Brezigar's time. Everyone goes up, so another confirmation that I don't know what you're doing! [[...]] I don't know. I'm not gonna use the word lies. My academic address is up to the doctors of science and not you. Why don't you go to college and get a doctorate first? As far as the democraticity of the SDS party is concerned, I have no problem with this, no problem at all. If you have any problems inside, it's you. Mr. Secretary of State, and here we are. Your professional associate and I looked at it, and I have the right version of the law, and there's no doubt about it. I'm already a little scared, considering you produce a lot of them, but I have the right version. Please answer me, you still have time to argue and how you claim on the basis of the information that today the State Prosecutor's Council is composed of the prosecutors themselves and one person appointed by the Minister, why this is less professional than the future situation where the prosecutors will have four people, four will give the President of the Republic according to the key that Mrs Jeraeva mentioned – the essence is that he is a lawyer. So it could be a lawyer, it could be a notary, it could be anyone, just that he's a graduate lawyer. He will choose them by party, we know this, because he has not yet chosen anything other than a client – the justification is Rok Praprotnik, we know this – and one will be given by the minister. Why, then, would the selection of five people who would not be the prosecutors that others would gather, rather than four, be a better situation? From where? Where would that be better? You can't justify it if you go to the moon and come back because there's no evidence. It's not working. Then the next matter, the law at every step – because I have to conclude this – will be extended through the article to the article by extending the powers of this political group, which is called the State Prosecutor's Council, extending the powers of the minister and reducing the powers of the prosecutors. That's a fundamental problem. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u105	Mr. Miran Potch has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u106	Thank you very much. At the beginning of my performance on behalf of the parliamentary group, I have told or suggested that I was afraid that this debate would go beyond the content of the law, but on the basis of differences in the work of the Attorney General and the Minister of Justice and their disputes – I apologize for saying so directly, but we all know them and we have also witnessed them in the means of public information, as well as in the working bodies. When I said that fear, I had to say that I thought maybe it wouldn't be true. What happened at this session, especially under Dr. Gorenak's tactics, is much worse than I expected. Much worse. Because to evaluate and not admit anything that it says, but to read everything by its own taste and then to justify the criticism that I have given in advance — it is bad. First of all, Mr Gorenak you can say that you did not mean me or even yourself, but to offend fellow Members, that no one has read anything, that no one has any idea of anything, that he is imagining that he does not deserve a salary, because he prescribes only what the Minister imposes on him, these are such harsh insults. It would be nice if, despite your doctorate, despite the high opinion you have about yourself and the like — you do not do this — it is not right! Some basic etiquette and decency also apply to mutual relations, if not to relations with the Secretary of State. Look, just two, three things I'm going to tell you because I don't want to take half an hour like you took – about half an hour, it can be a little more, a little less – for your explanation. Is it true where to find evidence in the law that the prosecution wants to form itself as an executive body or as a body? I didn't find it in the marriage, but I also read it; maybe too superficial, too few times, but I didn't find it. However, whenever we talk about the prosecutorial function in theory and in practice, we talk about the prosecution being in the middle of something and that it is not a judicial body, that it is not a fully independent state body, although it is written in the constitution, but that it also has certain functions, elements of executive power. When you spoke of the criticism of this law, you were actually the visa holders of the rights that the Attorney General was supposed to have, pleading for it — at least I understood it so — to have a system of the State Prosecutor's role in the system before 1995, when it was known that each Prosecutor-in-charge was in fact dependent on mandatory instructions, in particular cases, on a higher, superior prosecutor and that his professional knowledge was not highlighted. And this was a system that probably none of us wanted anymore, because it was really subordinated to executive power; because in the end, you will say that there was another authority that ordered the Attorney General, and that down to what must be done. You're talking about the fact that the Attorney General doesn't have any function, and you're talking about a system that doesn't allow prosecution and actually allows a prosecutor who decides for whatever reason to be professional, in your opinion, often political as an expert and under the influence of a minister or a politician – that there is no sanction for things to get old and criminal. Mr. Gorenak, that's simply not true! The law also says a little differently about these issues. With regard to the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office, Article 133 provides for an extended college of the High Prosecutor – whether you are looking to the blue sky or to God, I do not care; only this is what the article says. It also states what competences are and what is very important about the definition and implementation of criminal policy. I will not have people – but you can read for yourself – burdened to read the entire text. Much the same is true for the 145th section of the law, which speaks of the policy of persecution and says, "the Attorney General" – which you claim is without jurisdiction – "adopt the policy of persecution after a transitional reasoned opinion" and so on. But; accept the policy of persecution. Is the adoption of a policy of persecution a non-essential function or nothing because it cannot be assessed as an important role of the Attorney General? It's an important role! For you — no! What is a policy of persecution, but it's in the second paragraph if you read it. I'll read it for you this time. "Determins the types of matters that are dealt with as a matter of priority. Framework guidelines for the rejection of criminal charges or the use of deferred prosecution, settlement, criminal order and reduced procedures" and so on. In short, purely concrete conduct, which means how state prosecutors decide in specific cases if they respect law enforcement policy. If it is not respected, inter alia, Article 168 of this Law provides that mandatory implementing instructions are issued and Article 170 provides for the taking up of matters. And the case is not only taken over by the prosecutor within the District Attorney's Office, but also by the Attorney-General, the Supreme, to an exceptional extent and to a lesser extent, but can also be taken over or awarded to someone else. In short, your claim that there is nothing against the prosecutor other than the blue sky is true. And so it would be possible to prove from the case to the case that you make some claims into a story that does not correspond to the actual state of the law, half or nothing, just to evaluate all efforts. Finally, I say this: I do not claim that the law is ideal, I do not know, I do not imagine myself as much as you do, that I know everything and that I would be able to judge, but – now a little for a joke, a little for a fact – I suggest to the ministry that you write the law for a fee or without, because you probably will not want to take the fee because you are too honest a man. But you write it because you know everything and you can explain everything. Mr Gorenak, by this and in this way, with my best wishes to be kind, politics is not being built, so is the collapse; and you do so constantly, whatever proposal comes from the Justice Ministry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u107	Mr State Secretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u108	Thank you very much. In fact, I don't even know if it appears to contaminate such a conclusion to the debate that we just heard, I think it's very well summarized what's going on here today. But let me add to what Mr Gorenak asked me directly. As far as the version is concerned, I believe you are right, I have no doubt, but I also said that you are probably reading comments made by the Attorney General on the previous version. This is why you claim things that are no longer in marriage. However, as regards the issue of the expertise of the new State Prosecutor's Council. Today the State Prosecutor's Council is as you described it, made up of prosecutors. Its competences are such that they are mainly professional in nature: they judge the work of prosecutors, they decide on vacation, they decide on advancements and things like that. Professional questions that require, of course, an expert composition. But the major change is that the powers under the new law for the State Prosecutor's Council are different. In fact, one of the main powers that the State Prosecutor's Council receives is the formulation of the policy of persecution that we have heard about from Mr Potrč. However, the design of a policy of persecution requires a little more control, as our society is subject to the democratic principle of mutual barriers and balances between the different branches of government, and leaving the prosecution to make a full decision on the policy of persecution without the participation of the public outside, it would not be agreed. In fact, the policy of prosecution means deciding what will be the priority, deciding on the framework of criminal policy eventually, addressing, rejecting complaints and these are substantive guidelines. Of course, they are general, not specific. As the Attorney-General has the opportunity to adopt a law of persecution, which I personally believe is one of the most important acquisitions of this law, probably the most important, it is of course essential that in this process of shaping this policy of persecution, which will hit the entire circle of citizens who ever meet with the prosecution, not only are the foreign professional public involved, but only prosecutors. Following the example of what we have in the Council of Justice, the decision you have today in marriage is taken. Prosecutors still have a majority in this world, this is forgotten all the time. Six are prosecutors, five are prosecutors, four are outside; five is more than four, please. It is true that one of these five is appointed by the minister, but this man is the head of the prosecution. Are the prosecutors political because they're called the government? For the government is put on the side of Parliament and according to your logic, everyone who is Parliament's own! But I don't know who's going to be putting the officers in our house if that's the stamp that everyone's wearing that goes through this procedure. Five prosecutors sit in the State Prosecutor's Council and four outsiders. Please don't say that prosecutors don't have a majority! As for some other debates and some other perceptions, there was also much talk about the scope of the law: that the law was great, that it had many articles, that it was too detailed. This medal has two salaries, so far the legislation of the State Prosecutor's Office has been born in such a way that, to a large extent or to a large extent, it referred to regulation as it applies to judges. The judicial function and the court are governed by two laws; today we have one law on the State Prosecutor's Office – this proposal for a law before you – which brings all matter together under the same roof because the regulation is transparent, that the regulation is in one place and that there are no questions about the meaningful application of the law. In fact, we have seen this a number of times in the past. Moreover, such regulation will also be more transparent; not only for prosecutors, but also for citizens. Today, for tools to achieve success in prosecution, it has been pointed out in the debate that they exist, only they need to be used. Partly it is possible to agree with this, of course certain tools are available, of course they are also used to a certain extent, but for the result we want to make it better. That key tool, which is not today, is a policy of persecution. The organised crime prosecution team, which in practice deals most with economic crime and will also be in the future if this bill is adopted, as a special 12th prosecution, of course, implementing a policy of persecution, but it is crucial who and how it is created. Indeed, that is not the case today, and prosecutors today are bound by the principle of legality, which means they are obliged to pursue, unless there are legal conditions when there is no persecution. In recent years, legislation has largely deviated from this strict principle, which has been in force over the past decades: with various instruments of delayed prosecution, regulation, rejection of allegations of irrelevant crimes and so on. This principle has become much more flexible if I may use this word, and, of course, gives room for prioritisation. The problem with the prosecution today is that it does not have the authority; no one has the authority to create such a policy of persecution. For this reason, the prosecutor, when deciding on the matter, is, of course, left to his own discretion and is bound by law to treat the same quality as a chicken thief or someone accused of economic crime. Persecution policy here will give you the opportunity to make a priority to focus on resources, human and time, on those actions that are identified as the most important. Because this policy is now possible, it is essential that the general public participates. All of this is a system of interlocking and balancing; it is not about usurping the prosecution, it is about mutual brakes and balance. Since the Attorney-General will have this extremely strong new power of attorney, it is, of course, necessary to assume, on the other hand, the form of an external shareholder involved in the adoption of this decision. It's about power sharing and power control. If I get back on the tools. Today we are often witnessing the problem of police and prosecutorial cooperation. These problems arise for various reasons; the solution to these problems is, of course, that the prosecution and the police agree on how they will work together. The problems are because sometimes it is unwilling to negotiate on the one hand, sometimes on the other hand, sometimes the priorities of one another are different from those of the other, and all these problems sometimes undermine cooperation between the police and the prosecution. This has been said several times by the Attorney-General, as we have heard from other forums. The fact is that, because of this new power that the Attorney General will have in the form of a policy of prosecution and the powers that prosecutors have under the Criminal Procedure Act, their position in the negotiation, in cooperation with the police, is significantly different under this new regime. They have the power to define what crime is important to this country and what crime is irrelevant to that country. The police will have to take that into account. As a result, this cooperation at this early stage, when crimes are detected, can be made easier because it will be known who is responsible for the code. Today, these relationships are far more vague. All of these are the solutions that this marriage brings. Because of all this, as I have already said, we hope that the prosecution of organised crime will be better. Even yesterday, when we talked about specialized departments in the courts, the discussion often took place in the direction that the previous regime was not effective, so it was better to leave everything alone or the obvious was why you were changing, but if it had not worked before. Because we want it to work to do good, and we want to create the conditions for doing better. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u109	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the floor, but since the time for discussion has not yet taken place, I ask, does anyone else wish to discuss the Rules of Procedure on the basis of Article 71, paragraph 1, of the Rules of Procedure? [[Three.]] Check-in is on. A representative of the Government is also applying. Each debater has 5 minutes at his disposal. Mrs. Silva Nigga, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u110	Thank you so much for saying that. Indeed, a comprehensive text would say that a very interesting proposal for a law with all the accompanying documents. If one thinks that only an indicator shows how much care the team actually is, I will not now refer to specific persons to ad persons, I will focus on such a wide range of problems. We know that the columns of the media have been filled with a variety of examples of practices that are in all their own, one would say, concluding words and conclusions that the proceedings of the state prosecutions are too long, too slow and as a result remain proceedings at the judicial level the same. If we know that in Slovenia, somehow by 1995, we had been going through some new renovations, the reorganisation of the judiciary and the judiciary, as well as the prosecution system, and that we were then given legislation, we have now found that in the last 15, 16 years it has taken time for some things to be changed. If I mention only one piece arguing why and in what way this was necessary, it reads: The report of the Supreme Public Prosecutor of the Republic of Slovenia summarizes the report in 2009. It produced a special half-year report on economic crime and sent it to the Ministry of Justice. After this report has been drawn up, all the prosecutions are 13. 8. 2009 also sent a letter with a proposal to monitor this area in a more direct manner – one very clearly designed model that can be more traceable, transparent – which was prepared to produce a report and with proposals to present a legal issue and proposals to improve the situation in this area. In September 2009, the State Prosecutor's Office sent a report describing the situation in this area, presenting legal issues that have been detected, and with some proposals for dealing with such crimes. Today, some of us have been talking about a catastrophic situation, such a situation and others, I don't know about any judicial backlogs, the incompetence of state prosecutors and so on. But today, we also have one piece of material that is properly prepared, and one would expect to have a substantive approach to the debate, and that it will be said — quite in cases, not to me personally, but if one said — that he did not like the basic objectives of pursuing this law, he did not like how and how the State Council was conceived, but not some constant deception of the public about trying to restore a system that was long-lived and so on. I think that by listening to the text – and I admit that I could not read it completely because only 37 pages were dedicated to the objectives pursued by the law, and then a comparative study for each area is intended from 37 pages to 69. Then we have a very carefully designed illustration of how we can get to those parts that interest us because the law is so extensive that we can only focus on specifics and areas. For me, the law is certainly important in those segments, which are important for the rule of law, for the functioning of the legal system, because it follows very clearly the objective and principle of strengthening and independence of the State Prosecutor's Office. There have been so many doubts expressed, and I do not know what simply does not follow this objective. But I think that the law, as it was written, follows the fundamental objective of traceability and the strengthening of organ autonomy. That's it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u111	Mr. Magg has the word. Saivitz, here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the floor. Greetings to the secretary and coworkers! As we have heard many times in the debate today, in the area governed by this state prosecutorial law, there is much wrong. We also like to use the stories about the police, the prosecution and the court of Members and Members in these debates, various interpretations, but above all, they are always a useful source and a tool for our daily political needs and mutual accounting. I must say that I am not an expert in this area, but when I read the materials, the texts, the explanations, and when I am convinced in my speeches by many of my predecessors, both in positions and in opposition species, that there is something wrong in this system, something is wrong that we have a system that is a few decades old, then it is clear to everyone that something needs to be changed, and it is for the better. I am sure that the proposal before us makes this step. Many times we have been informed that the law is being prepared, what are the directions, what are the desires, what are the goals. Today we have received such a bill on the table, and I will confirm it in particular because I want the rule of law to move away from politics, thereby giving citizens and citizens confidence in the whole system, from the police, the prosecution and the judiciary, and that we are aware that if all three of these factors are not coherent and effective, then we cannot reach this goal. We, Members and Members, as legislators, have a large part of this responsibility in this system. Cases in the Slovenian prosecutor's office and in the judiciary fall many times as dominoes for dominoes, not because of the content, because of the procedure, and this is also our fault, because we have obviously adopted a number of laws that were not granted, which was not appropriate. I think that this State Prosecutor's Office Act eliminates the greatest possible number of these individual dilemmas, mistakes and doubts that work in this area, as demonstrated by the moments and challenges of time, can take place even more successfully and more effectively. However, at a time when we live, there is one feeling that this very moment is all wrong. All these things, ladies and gentlemen, have been gathering for years and decades. And this moment, when we discovered the greatest number of mistakes, the largest number of crimes, it wasn't a message that this moment was all wrong, but that the system finally woke up, that it was working, and that it wanted to work, and that the anomalies that it was talking about were being eliminated. I am convinced that by means of this law on the State's Attorney's Office, we are placing one stone in the mosaic of the better functioning of the rule of law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u113	Mr. Vinko Gorenak has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u114	Thank you very much. I have a habit of listening really well to people in the hall. It was just said that it was a departure from politics. What's the difference from politics? If we have a state prosecutor's council today, appointed by the state's attorneys from among themselves and by the minister, one will be appointed. Now you're saying it's a departure from politics, which is nice for citizens. But it's not true. After the news, we'll have only four prosecutors and five political people. That's it. Then where do you see the shift from politics? What five? The first four will be decided by the President of the State, propose, we will confirm which will be such as the full selection of the President, the Rok Praprotnik type. Let's move on. One will be chosen by the minister. So, the prosecutors don't have a majority anymore, the four will be prosecutors, the fifth is the prosecutor, let's say you are, of course you can be, because you're a politician, and because you'll be a member of the state prosecutor's council by the taste of the minister. So it's not true and it doesn't hold up the story. He doesn't drink water. Your squeezing has holes. Let's move on. If, in the previous term or in the future, the following would have happened, I think it would have been a revolution. According to the Internet, you'll know the source if you have to, the president of the government calls the prosecutor, slaps her on the phone and threatens to see the government fall if she doesn't do something right away, and you're talking to me about an independent prosecutor's office. And you can say whatever you want, Mr. Punch, that I'm greedy, that I don't know what, but I love the truth very much. Last April, she calls Mrs Dragica Kotnik and tells her that the government will fall and that she will do something as soon as possible. If Janez Janša were to do this as Prime Minister, if Andrej Bajuk did this, I think we would be walking around Ljubljana with eyelashes. Let's move on. What was the coalition doing with the D.A.? The flower of Zalokar Orazem makes up that the attorney general needs a little, three picks, because we're in public, and we all understand what. What's going on? He writes a question, the minister appoints an army and sends it "with half a bus" to the Ljubljana Prosecutor's Office. These gentlemen are transferring the Ljubljana Prosecutor's Office, we have 100,000 articles, television contributions, and then they write down the mandatory instructions that the Constitutional Court retains. It's an influence on the prosecution. I have problems sometimes, really. Last time I saw a movie, it doesn't make sense to repeat it. It's too obvious, ladies and gentlemen, if you have a hand in marmalade, and it's dripping, you can't say you didn't have a hand in marmalade. Someone could have given it to you, and that's possible. Look, that's not how it works. And the article extends the powers of the Minister to the article. I don't know which article, there are very few articles that don't extend the powers of a minister. Now we're talking about the withdrawal of politics from the D.A.'s office. I don't know, I won't say, and then when I say you don't want to read or what I know, you're insulted. No, it's not that, read the article, and you'll see what time it is. And I insist on all the claims I've made before and now. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u115	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u116	Mr. Jerovšek, press the button.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u117	Thank you very much, again. Your Honor! The Ministry of Justice, at a high rate, is seemingly renewing legislation in the field of justice. Yesterday we had two laws, a law on judicial service, a law on the conduct of judicial service, which we were able to claim with certainty on the basis of the practice of the past, that they would not be realized, that they meant delaying, blocking judicial proceedings and potentially expediting judicial proceedings. Today we have a law on the prosecution. I cannot say that we have the optimal Prosecutor's Law sitting down, but the change does not go in the direction of an optimal law or a truly improved law that goes in the direction of real autonomy, greater independence of the prosecution and prosecutors. Not this law, not the enlargement within the law of the State and Prosecutor's Council, but elsewhere you say that some side has to be reduced. No other solution is going this way. This is about the doctrine of persecution, and unfortunately, with what has been happening and is happening under the current authority in the field of prosecution, we can argue that this doctrine of persecution is indeed changing, that we are receiving in certain areas or in some segments of the state, regime persecution. See, if it were to go this way, as you are proclamatingly stating, then it would be quite clear that a prosecutor who admits that he has violated human rights in his work cannot be promoted to the highest prosecutor. Even in this area, although the prosecution is somewhat independent, the Colonel's amendment, which is in force in the judiciary, should apply automatically. How can you deny the Colonel's amendment? Those who have violated human rights should do such things where their fingers will no longer trouble him to break them again. Look, these gallbladder attacks on the independence of state prosecutors, the Attorney General, etc., indicate that this authority wants a Visinsky-type prosecutor. I hope that most Members know what Prosecutor Visinski was in real socialism. Unfortunately, the former mayor and teacher doesn't know, but he should know, but the senior official of the previous party doesn't know what Prosecutor Visinski meant, what the mounted trials he started. From one country to another. Unfortunately, the Member who spoke to someone in this House yesterday, "but you do believe," so I believe in Allah, which is what it means. Since this is the kind of mentality that is presented directly from the coalition species when it is not known to trap Prosecutor Visinsky and delusion, this authority can at least drive its coalition through the water and do not respect the adoption of the human rights law, the absolute respect for human rights and the validity of this amendment. I hope Mr Brulco doesn't have to explain what the Colonel's amendment is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u118	Thank you. Mr. Secretary of State. Wait a minute. What do you want? There's no replica of that, sorry. Here you go. Yes, you can, but there's no replica in this part when the time is divided. Here you go, Mr. Secretary of State.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u119	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. For a short period of time, the Colonel's amendment only applies to a permanent term for judges. Mr, who is a candidate, is already an official with a permanent mandate, so this situation is quite different. But we're going back to the D.A. Act. It's a work of sorts. This is the law. The viewers didn't see him, it's 365 pages. If this is supposed to be an effort, then I don't know what the real deal is. Today, we were just talking in the beginning about the work programme, when they were criticised, when leaders would have to write work programmes, that is, administration. Yeah, that's one way of putting it. But the work programme is aimed at setting targets and at the end of the year checking whether the objectives have been achieved. Given that the policy of prosecution is introduced by this law, of course, the Chief Prosecutor will have the task of taking care of the implementation of this policy of prosecution and, at the end of the year, assessing and assessing others whether he has achieved these objectives and is responsible for achieving the objectives. Prosecution policy means that the prosecution is centralised at the level of direction, organisation and control. At these levels, the Prosecutor's Office is centralised and, therefore, not the one under the Minister's supervision, because the Minister is unable to supervise specific cases, the Supreme Public Prosecutor's Office is centralised. And the results of these controls are used to formulate a policy of persecution. At the performance level, the prosecution is strongly decentralised because it is based on a stand-alone state prosecutor, who is a self-employed official with a permanent mandate and must carry out his prosecutorial function in accordance with the law as before. The State Prosecutor's Council is an element of external control in creating, in particular, a policy of prosecution, but also of the functioning of the Prosecutor's Office as a whole, external control due to the system of mutual brakes and balances. If it is said that the political members are those appointed by Parliament, then I fear that there are no non-political officials, because the state prosecutors are appointed by the government, appoint a parliament, the judges are elected by Parliament, so they are all political. I don't take that argument. Five prosecutors are in the state prosecutor's council, four are outside. The argument we've heard is, yes, the outside have a majority because one of the prosecutors is called the minister. More importantly, it is appointed by the Minister, rather than the fact that a person is in office with a permanent mandate, as he is the prosecutor. That this government wants some terrible oversight of the prosecution. Let me just remember. The first surveillance, the extraordinary unannounced supervision of the state prosecutor's office, was during the previous government, not during this government. And this arrangement that such controls are possible today is in force. We already have a marriage like this today. We don't have any news here that would spread the powers of the minister, and that the minister would want some serious powers, he doesn't. The minister's powers are limited. The fact that the prosecution is depoliticised is due in particular to the withdrawal of the policy from the appointment process or the nomination of the candidate to the highest position, including the leadership role in the prosecution. If the honourable Member thinks that there is more responsibility for the minister, then I am sure that he will be able to tell us where this enlargement is in the further proceedings, when we are sure to talk about this law. And I'll be happy to tell you where the wedding is. The Ministry withdraws from the State Prosecutor's Office by virtue of the powers vested in it. Well, if you think the extension of competence is that it appoints and also solves them, then maybe we can really talk about enlargement if that's really enlargement. With everything that is ahead of you today, we want to create a framework for a more effective prosecution of organised crime, as I have said many times. We want to have a prosecutor's office that will be able to actively and promote the challenges of the present. We want them to have organisational forms that will allow for a rapid response to the occurrence of the most dangerous crimes and that these crimes or events will also be experienced by a judicial epilogue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u120	I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide on Tuesday, 3 May 2011, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. We're moving to 18. At the beginning of the day, this is a proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the law on State administration within the framework of the ordinary procedure. The draft law was tabled by a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank. On this proposal, a group of 27 Members and Members, with first-signed Jozet Tank, requested the State Assembly to hold a general debate. In order to further explain the draft law, I give the floor to the representative of the proposers of the bill to Mr Mag. Branku Grims.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u121	Dearly beloved, everyone has a very nice greeting on behalf of the Slovenian Democratic Party as the proponent of this law! In mid-June 2009, the division of spoils was overturned in the final phase, as unfortunately the government coalition proved by its conduct that it understood the state of Slovenia as a whole and its victory in the elections. This understanding of Slovenia as a prey and then the division, which has been expressed with many cows' trades, is now extremely vengeful. And one of the things that is certainly worth it is that, because of the importance it has for the further development of the country of Slovenia, it is an area of electronic communication that has been corrected and thus resolved, which is yet to be resolved. In the division of political spoils, the interest of the party, or its leader, apparently prevailed here, could even be said to be of personal interest. Without any clear arguments, this area was transferred from the Ministry of Economy, which is normally the case in Europe, to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. What quickly turned out to be nothing more than political looting. It is tragic that the Government, in its rejection of this law, is citing Apek. Then what was the story on Apec? The Director of Apec, who was a highly professional, was politically replaced by a rapid procedure, without any appropriate explanation, and clearly contrary to the law. So it was not just political looting, but political looting for the purpose of political recruitment. This was quickly repaid to the Government twice, unfortunately, even Slovenia. In fact, for the first time, the European Union, where the European Commission, which rarely does so, has received a strong warning from Slovenia that its conduct is inappropriate, that the conduct of the current government is non-European. On the other hand, when it came to the political exchange of Director Apek, the government burned to the ground in court. And, by the way, she got more or less excited about that judgment and repeated the case. This transfer and this conduct have also been avenged materially, for those institutions that covered this area and in the past have been almost a hen carrying golden eggs are mostly operating negatively today. Not only because of the tight economic conditions, which is an excuse that we hear so often, but there are obviously other reasons and other actions. It is an economic policy that is obviously dominated by political and personal interests and which makes it possible to make wrong decisions. Perhaps even the decisions that those who take them have been politically set up and are professionally incompetent, and they sincerely believe that they are the right ones, and they come back because of incompetence, because of ignorance as a boomerang. For all these reasons in the Slovenian Democratic Party, we propose to correct what is yet to be resolved, and to return this area to where, for example, Austria, Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Estonia, Finland, France, Greece, Ireland, Italy, Latvia, Lithuania, Malta, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom, we are to refer this area back to the Ministry of Economy. This will also bring an end to any guesses that may be justified, perhaps from the standpoint of someone else. But it is necessary to know that it has been shown that the minister covering this area has at least one and, according to some data, even three "kaselc firm" in the Netherlands, and that then raises the issue of conflict of interest. Previously, it was so sweet to the government's representative, when he said, quote, "in the area of classical and organised crime, we are very good in this government." Let me add, in the area of disorganized crime, the political recruitment of this government and cow trades, but you are indisposable. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u122	For an introductory explanation of the opinion, I give the floor to the representative of the Government of Ms Tina Teržan, State Secretary at the Ministry of Public Administration.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u123	Thank you for your word. Nicely greeted! The State Administration Act 2009 was the first comprehensive revision of the working areas of ministries following the adoption of the State Administration Act in 2003. Its aim was to streamline the work of ministries and to align the work areas of ministries with the current legislation and directives of the European Union. This set of changes was also covered by the change in the work area of electronic communications and mail. The current proposal for this amendment was justified as, on the basis of the changed powers, it has increased the efficiency and effectiveness of the work in this field, namely in the field of the information society. Even in the opinion of the professional public, the change was necessary, thus strengthening the link between the information society's programmes and the needs of the economy. The information society should be seen as a whole, as is the case in the European Commission and in the framework of the EU 2020 Strategy, where the Digital Agenda is a comprehensive flagship initiative involving regulation of electronic communications, technology and services in the information society and ICT research. Each step in a different direction would be a repetition of the conceptual error in the amendments to the Government of the Republic of Slovenia Act of late 2004, which artificially separated the integrated area of the information society in the field of electronic communications at the Ministry of Economy and the Information Society at the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. The 2009 Law on State Administration transferred regulatory tasks in the field of electronic communications and mail to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, while managing economic activity in the field of electronic communications, namely Telekom and Posta Slovenije, remains at the Ministry of Economy also due to possible conflicts of interest. The views of Members on the political and business interests of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology are therefore not justified by the separation of regulatory tasks from economic activities. In addition, the material of the applicants is lacking, as it only generally and flat-rately argues that the existing regime is a unique solution. In this regard, it should be clarified that the field of the information society, such as so-called applications, and electronic communications including infrastructure and regulation, are separate from each other according to the competence of individual ministries in only six Member States of the European Union. However, all the other Member States of the European Union have these two areas in one sector. It follows that by transferring electronic communications from the Ministry of the Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, the merger with the information society has not been a unique arrangement, but rather a dominant arrangement in the countries of the European Union. Since the field of electronic communications was originally linked to the area of e-commerce in the market and the postal sector, and these tasks were always carried out in the areas mentioned above within the same department, the Ministry of Transport initially, then the Ministry of Information Society, the Ministry of Economy and today the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, it makes sense to maintain interrelationship and cooperation in these areas. Participation in certain European organisations is also rationalised in this way, for example through cooperation within the Conference of European Postal and Telecommunications Administrations and the Regional Association for Communications. The Government of the Republic of Slovenia estimates that the current organisation of work in the field of information technology, electronic communications and mail is appropriate and therefore does not support the proposal for a law on amendments and additions to the Law on State Administration submitted by the Group of Members, with the first signed by Jozet Tank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u124	Thank you very much. We are moving on to a presentation on the views of the groups of Members. Mr Guido Kres has the floor on behalf of the SLS Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u125	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Dear colleagues and colleagues! Perhaps it is right today to say in the introduction that citizens and citizens will be asked again today whether, in these times of crisis, such topics are really those to be addressed in depth by the National Assembly, from one ministry to another. It is true, however, that sometimes minor changes have a visible impact, but it can also be shown during the debate that the previous solutions were not appropriate. In the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian People's Party, we really hope that the debate will take place in the light of arguments rather than political accounting and that we will finally find out why it was so urgent to transfer mail and electronic communications to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Above all, we want arguments because exclusively political debate would be completely pointless and we will not draw any conclusions from it. Almost two years ago, the Minister of Public Administration here in the National Assembly stated that it was imperative to move the matter under consideration to the Higher Education Ministry for the sake of new organisation in certain areas and greater transparency and transparency in the work areas of individual ministries. However, the most important objective is to reduce labour costs. Dear colleagues and colleagues! How many times have we heard such words in this term? The Slovenian People's Party has shown you several times, also graphically, how savings are done through ministries and how effective the current government is in saving intentions. In addition, some additional staff are employed, funds are being increased in a given sector, and budgetary deficits and government indebtedness are increasing despite all these year-on-year reorganisations. We have not heard the real professional arguments why the shift of jurisdiction for postal services and electronic communications was very modest and general arguments in the government's written opinion on the proposal for this law. But I'm afraid we won't have a chance to hear them again today. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we hope that we will not discuss the political careers and ambitions of the Minister of Higher Education, but rather the success of his work in his department and the improvement of the situation that has been announced. The Minister and his services have therefore been given jurisdiction over the Agency for Mail and Electronic Communications, i.e. the Agency which has a major impact on the development of telecommunications in the country and which is responsible for ensuring a competitive situation in this area. Through the allocation of frequencies, permits and the like, a number of interests are faced, especially huge sums of money. Today, the Director of the Agency is being appointed by the Higher Education Minister, and it is evident from this that we have a strong influence on this site from one ministry to another. Almost two years ago, you, a respected coalition, made a willful move despite opposition, and made a so-called reorganisation in this area. We are now expecting results and a presentation of the concrete achievements of this decision. Serious complications in the call for co-financing of broadband networks, in areas where no commercial interest is expressed, are certainly not a positive point of this part of this reorganisation. The Post Offices of Slovenia and Telekom Slovenije, two very important state investments, are now the responsibility of the Ministry of Higher Education through Apek and cannot be avoided. However, the electronic communications market is still full of anomalies, with some still exploiting the monopoly situation, still plaguing smaller service providers, the construction of broadband networks still lagging far behind, whether from private or co-financed resources. We all know that broadband networks are one of the foundations for implementing a policy of equitable regional development. Telekom Slovenije produced over 200 million euros in losses last year. It's a monster. Are these the improvements that have been brought about by the transfer of competences of electronic communications?Oh, my God! Is this also considered a successful work of Apek?Oh, my God! As we know from the Slovenian People's Party Group, there is no case in the Member States of the European Union where this area would be covered exclusively by the Ministry responsible for higher education. We are convinced that electronic communications and postal services are for general economic material, which must reflect reasonable regulation, transparency and ensure equivalent conditions for all companies on this market, and it is therefore reasonable that these two areas be merged under the auspices of the Ministry of Economy. The relationship between the information society and the economy is all the more crucial today, and the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology should focus on the reform of the higher education system and the integration of graduates into scientific research programmes and the provision of educated staff for high value-added jobs. In the Slovenian People's Party's Group, we are therefore rightly asking and even doubting the well-intentioned interests and professional arguments for this week's migration of the field of electronic communications and information society under the responsibility of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Therefore, in the first reading, we will support the amendment of the Law on Public Administration to return this matter to the economic area where it once was, and was formerly part of the Ministry of Information Society. The current solution within the higher education sector has not proved effective or has not justified its purpose. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u126	Thank you very much. The views of the Slovenian National Party Group will be presented by mag. Sarah Wheeler. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u127	Thank you for your word, Mr. Vice President. Messengers, MPs, government representatives! As early as 2009, the Slovenian national party opposed the amendment of the legislation by which the electronic communications department was transferred to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. We argued mainly for the reason that it happened at the time. We could say that it was a conflict of interest or at least at the time, a suspicion of the correctness of action. In the meantime, suspicion has proved to be justified. It is essential, however, that we have adopted the Law on Integrity and Prevention of Corruption, we have been given a commission as an authority and practice is being created slowly. The opinion of the Commission is that a conflict of interest is sufficient for appearance, as it is understood and accepted by the public. And the opinion of the public does not need to be specifically stated. It is therefore best that the area of electronic communications return to the Ministry of the Economy if we have already lost the Ministry of Information Society and the Ministry of Transport and Communications. It is only to hope that, in this transfer back to the Ministry of the Economy, we will not get a silent associate, a silent minister, but not in the sense of non-action, but that quiet influence on the Ministry of the Economy, because then it would not be best if we had only one large ministry, one apparatus of one service and, it is not insignificant, one minister or ministry. We're going to support the novel's proposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u128	Thank you very much. The position of the LDS Club will be presented by the mag. Borut Saiovic.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u129	Thank you very much, Mr President, President-in-Office. Greetings to the representatives of the Ministry, colleagues and colleagues! The Group of Members of the National Assembly of the Republic of Slovenia, with the first signed by Jozet Tank, shall be 11. 3. The draft Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration transmitted to the National Assembly for first reading. With a new amendment to the law, the proposal is to transfer the work area of electronic communications and mail back to the Ministry of Economy's field of work, which we do not support in the Parliamentary Club of Liberal Democracy of Slovenia. Finally, it is on the part of the proponents that it is the power to hear the constantly recurring evidence that politics is dealing with itself over time and that it is such a waste of time. With this assessment, in the Liberal Democracy of Slovenia we certainly agree, because the proposal of the Social Democratic Party, which we are considering today, clearly shows that it is the SDS that is always creating a situation in which politics deals with itself, not with content. And what else is it that we're talking about today? It's not about content, it's not about what we're going to do in the field of telecommunications, how we're going to do it, how we're going to do it, how we're going to give more money, where you set priorities, but how we're going to do it in the light of new political events, how we're going to get more political power and power from the ministries. The 2009 Law on State Administration was the first comprehensive revision of the working areas of the Minister following the adoption of the Law on State Administration in 2003, aimed at rationalising the work of ministries and aligning the working areas of ministries with current legislation and EU directives. This set of changes was also covered by the change in the work area of electronic communications and mail. The current proposal for this amendment was justified as, on the basis of the changed powers, the efficiency and effectiveness of the work in the field of the information society has increased. Even in the opinion of the professional public, the change was necessary, thus strengthening the link between the information society's programmes and the needs of the economy. At national level, this is mainly the case with regard to the interconnectivity of the academic and business spheres and the lack of support for information society services. The information society should be seen as a whole in every modern society, such as in the European Commission and in the framework of the European Union's 2020 strategies, where the Digital Agenda is a comprehensive flagship initiative involving regulation of electronic communications, technology and services in the information society and research in the field of information communication technologies. This is that key segment of the framework research programmes that we still need. Each step in a different direction would be a repetition of the conceptual error in the revision of the RS Government Act of late 2004, which artificially divided the integrated area of the information society in the field of electronic communications and the field of the information society and also divided them between two different ministries. The area of electronic communications is the basis of services in the information society and therefore strategies, policies, legislation are certainly inseparably linked in both areas at national and international level within a number of European institutions. This law has also transferred regulatory tasks to the field of electronic communications and mail, while carrying out economic activity in the field of electronic communications, namely Telekom and Postal Slovenia, remains at the Ministry of Economy also due to possible conflicts of interest and these procedures of integrity and social relations in recent times. The views of Members on the political business interests of the Minister for Higher Education Science and Technology due to the separation of regulatory tasks from economic activities are therefore not justified. On the contrary, in view of the above, the possible adoption of the proposed amendment by the Group of Members of the National Assembly could raise and reinforce doubts as to the possible conflict of interest in the light of EU secondary legislation. However, the Directive of the European Parliament and of the EU Council on a common regulatory framework for electronic communications networks and services in Article 3, which speaks specifically of the independence of regulatory authorities, also explicitly requires, inter alia, the effective structural separation of the regulatory function from ownership and control activities. The current organisational structure of the field of electronic communications and mail is good, the right basis for a coordinated and uniform operation and the strategic development planning and implementation of a proactive approach in the development of the information society and creative cooperation in the European Union working groups, especially since the entire area of the information society as well as electronic communications and mail has been combined within one source and has linked and achieved synergies. For all the reasons listed in the Liberal Democracy Club of Slovenia, we believe that the proposal for the Law on State Administration is not suitable for further consideration and that our votes will go in this direction. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u130	Thank you very much. Mr Andrej Magajna will present the position of the Group of Non-Aligned Members. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u131	Dear Vice-President, Madam Minister with colleagues, colleagues and colleagues! The proposed law aims at transferring the fields of electronic communications and mail from the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology to the Ministry of the Economy. On 16 June 2009, the National Assembly passed the Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration, which transferred the field of electronic communications and mail from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Applicants consider that the area of electronic communications and mail is one of the general economic activities for which it is appropriate to be placed under the responsibility of the Ministry of Economy. At the same time, they point out that in most European Union countries electronic communication and mail is within the remit of the Ministry of Economy. As we have heard, the Government of the Republic of Slovenia does not support the proposal. With regard to the proposalers' claim that the existing regime is a unique solution in the European Union, the Government explains in its opinion that the fields of information society and electronic communications are separate from each other according to the competences of individual ministries in only six Member States of the European Union and all the other Member States have these two areas in one area. By transferring electronic communications from the Ministry of the Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, thus combining with the Information Society has not been a unique arrangement, as the Government says, but rather a dominant arrangement within the Member States of the European Union. Two questions, two areas, i.e. the merger of the two pillars and the mother ministry, could also be the third, as was the Ministry of Transport. This would also be one of the possible options. Today, however, we are wondering why such connections and the merger of such a transfer to the Ministry have taken place last year and why a change should be made at the end of the second half of the mandate, despite the fact that there may be no major financial consequences, but some operational personnel will come. If we do not get the right answer, why is it necessary to do so today or during this period, we will not support this law. But I'll explain my position later.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u132	Thank you very much. The position of the Group of Social Democrats will be presented by Mr Janez Kikelj. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u133	Mr Vice President, Madam Minister, colleagues, colleagues! In 2009, the Government proposed amendments to the Law on State Administration, adopted by the National Assembly at that time, in order to rationalise its work and harmonise its work areas with the current legislation and Directive of the European Union. Among other things, by amending the law, it transferred the field of electronic communications and mail from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. It brought together the information society and electronic communications. The current novels want to recast the transmission of electronic communications back to the Ministry of the Economy's field of work. The material of the new amendments proposed is very weak, as it is only generally and very flat-rately explained that the current regime is unique. Only 6 Member States of the European Union have separate areas of the information society and electronic communications. All other European countries have areas united in one sector. The Slovenian regime is therefore far from unique. Social Democrats oppose the re-sharing of the integrated area of the information society in the field of electronic communications and in the field of the information society. In our view, this area must remain unique. In addition, we believe that the composition of the Government, Directorates and other public administration services should be regulated by the one who manages it. We will vote against the Proposal for a Law on Amendments and Supplements to the Law on State Administration. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u134	Thank you very much. Mr Jožef Jerovšek will present the position of the Parliamentary Group of the Slovenian Democratic Party.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u135	Thank you very much, Mr. Chairman. Secretary of State, colleagues and colleagues! When we adopted the amendment of the Law on State Administration, which transferred the field of mail and electronic communications to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, in 2009, we actually prophetically predicted all the great consequences that would come with this. At that time, one of the moments when the government coalition or the current authority, which has been reproduced for virtually many years of independent Slovenia, did so because it had done so often in many years, in fact 16 years or 15 years of its rule. That after dedicated people, barons, or oligarchs of her authority, she moved her regime to areas where the most money is turned, where it is possible to draw the most out of the system. And the area of electronic communications, including mail, is one such area. Of course, this area and its increasing importance should serve the economy and be a driving force in the technological development economy. When a similar rustling occurred years ago, the then director of the Institute, Joseph Stefan, said here in Parliament at a meeting: "Slovenia is a technological colony. With such solutions, in one of these others, you are weakening and damaging Slovenia." And now let's see what was going on. In particular, at a time when Mr Gantar, the current President of the National Assembly, was a strong man, Mr Drnovska, was given a self-resort. From the former Minister of the Environment, he became Minister for the Information Society. Of course it was a prize. I remember how many times it has happened that a portion of the station has been taken away from a minister, even when there were various coalition governments, such a good area has been transferred from a minister who was from a party to a coalition attachment to that core of the regime. For example, in Drnovšk's government, when he became Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Peterle, the area of economic relations with foreign countries, which was previously within the foreign ministry, I think that Mrs Vojka Ravbar was the Secretary of State, was immediately transferred to the Ministry of State, because Peterle was not allowed to control it. In fact, there was also the legacy of the Judgment, which operated quite a number of times abroad. When he became Minister of the Interior, Mr Bizjak, also from the party on the other hand, he was not allowed to be part of the Ministry of the Interior, but Drnovšek transferred him directly under his own authority, the power of the Prime Minister of the Government. Then we have a significant example that energy is a dedicated area for some of the dedicated ministers of the then LDS, today from somewhere else, but mainly in the centre of power, which reigns and reigns in Slovenia. Energy moved after Mr. Copac. When he was an environmental minister, she was in the environment. When he went to the Ministry of Economy for the Secretary of State, he had to move there. Mr. Bather is bright and dressed under this regime. It's so powerful that I've heard that even the secretaries for 5,000 euros are being placed in energy companies. And nothing. These cases, which are related to the financial interests of this oligarcho-directive, are significant. One such case was the relocation of this Ministry under the auspices of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology due to the personal composition of this Ministry. Today is an opportunity for many politicians, whether grey eminence or wise ones, as they say, in our society, to say that there is now an opportunity for a radical reorganisation of the government, to replace the president, as we heard yesterday, three important or prominent people. And now you have the chance to get this ministry to where it makes most sense. In order to feed the Slovenian economy from these modern technologies, which are contained here, where there is enormous development, a huge amount of knowledge, so that technological development can be fueled in the economy. And that those bad points, when they were thought to, would also be implemented, what will be taken from these areas to power other functions, in fact these baron interests, this is now an opportunity. Now you see for yourself that everything is wrong within the government's constitution. Alone. Someone from the government coalition said that Mr Golobič should have stepped down a long time ago. And correct, do what is lifeless, which is completely wrong, which has bad consequences for our economy and for our country, and transfer, as proposed and envisaged by this law, under the auspices of the economy, that at least part of the mandate will have bad consequences eliminated, and these two areas will find themselves where they need to be, and will supply fresh blood in the wake of our economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u136	Thank you very much. Mr Vito Rožej will present the position of Mr Zares Group.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u137	Thank you so much for saying that. Say good-bye again! As has already been heard, at the June 2009 meeting, the Directorate for Electronic Communications from the Ministry of Economy was transferred under the auspices of the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, or under the Directorate for the Information Society. This eliminated the lack of organisational and human resources structure of both Directorates. Between the Directorates, following the abolition of the Ministry of Information Society in 2004, there were clearly defined relationships, tasks, responsibilities, which impeded the establishment of the ratio of strategic and operational activities. The lack of this coordinated action has weakened the potential for strategic development planning and implementation of the approach to the development of the information society and creative action in the working groups of the European Union. The question is therefore not why we transferred this Directorate in 2009, but why they were separated in 2004. That's the main question. And those who did not hear the arguments in 2009 for transferring one Directorate to another Ministry in order to be united, this was not because there were no arguments, but because they did not listen. Speaking of all these possible rhubarbs, Comrade Jerovšek may have mentioned, out of ignorance, the transfer of one part of the power from the Ministry of the Environment to the Ministry of the Economy, concerning energy. Let's say the government that did this, it wasn't some former lion, it was the former right-wing government, so it's one bad mix of apples and pears. These arguments, the mergers of electronic communications and the information society, are on the palm or also on the websites of the European Commission, because I see that one of you is using computers and you can look there. As such, division is exceeded, tasks, objectives and legislation are intertwined, and in service form they have an intense impact on other areas. Thus the European Commission, not this government, the European Commission is talking about three pillars in this area. Therefore, the legislative tasks are first, then research programmes and finally the adoption of the widest possible use of electronic services. This is also related to the functioning of working bodies and the merger has contributed to the fact that representatives of the two ministries will not have to travel to the same meetings in Brussels. Proposals for a new law on state administration, with the first-signed Jozet Tank, underlying and generally, argue flatly that the existing regime is unique, which is of course not true. The fields of information society and electronic communications are separate, as has already been said, from each other, within the competence of individual ministries in only six EU Member States, and 20 countries share these areas in the same sector. Only comparison with other European countries can be seen as the only serious argument in the proposed amendments and the addition of the law in question, but the arguments of the professional public, which supported and professionally justified the merger in 2009, are forgotten. But professional arguments obviously aren't enough for a lot of people here. It must be acknowledged that in most European countries these two areas are united, whether in the Ministry of Economy or in the Ministry of Transport and Communications. It must be acknowledged that only in Slovenia and in Denmark are they united at the Ministry of Science and Technology. There is another similar comparison between Slovenia and Denmark. Only Slovenia and Denmark know the possibility of a minority referendum to apply for a referendum. This is one of the specificities of Slovenian legislation that today's drafters do not consider to be unique and have never introduced a law that would, say, restrict this possibility, and this possibility is intensely not only to use, but also to abuse. So much for pure purpose. When reading the proposal, it is clear that it is an attempt to discredit the Minister for Higher Education. The motions for a necessary amendment of the law state the Minister's personal interests – and we are already used to that in the Group of Members in Really. This does not mean that such quasi arguments are acceptable or acceptable. They show a mirror of the political culture of the largest opposition party. We are going to oppose the law in the Parliamentary Group Really – a new policy. We believe that it is certainly not suitable for further consideration. Of course, it must also be said that each government is likely to have the opportunity and competence to regulate itself as it wishes, and ultimately, given the efficiency of the account. This one is, and the next one's probably gonna be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u138	Thank you very much. We have concluded by presenting the views of the groups of Members. There is a general debate on the bill. The first person to take the floor was Dr. József Györkös, State Secretary, Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u139	Thank you so much for saying that. Ladies and gentlemen, honourable Members! Even those of you who have given your opinion, but unfortunately you are not in the hall, I am sure that you listen to us after the sound. I would like to respond to some of the statements made, given that certain statements in the document have already been answered correctly by some members of the coalition, and also in the opening presentation by a colleague, a secretary of state, it has already been said why such a proposal is not acceptable. I am also pleased that there is a former minister among us from the Ministry of Information Society, Dr. Pavel Gantar. We have to start at this very point. This Directorate has not been taken over by the Ministry of the Economy, but it is necessary to take a step back. At the end of 2004 and at the beginning of 2005, I do not remember the exact date, a transfer of previously unified care for the information society to two sources was carried out. One part of the inseparable area, one that is economically more interesting, went to the Ministry of the Economy, although as I will explain later also to Mr Kres, who is here, allow me to make a mistake in concluding that has no connection to the economy, but to regulation. The second part went to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Once again, even when we changed the law in 2009, some who resisted talked mainly about being transferred to higher education. This area is relatively broad and complex, and the information society, as such, is also a social phenomenon, including a technologically complex phenomenon, so that it certainly fits into this area of higher education, science and technology. Well, but what happened at the time of the transfer. That part, so let's say it's kind of a service part, the information society went to the Ministry of Higher Education, but it was mainly in primary and secondary schools. For four years the mission of the information society has practically not been carried out, and the effort we made during the pre-accession period, then with the euro 2003 and other projects, these projects have been halted. And in this mandate we rebuild Slovenia's presence in the field of information society. It's about Apec. And Mr Grims said, again – as in the Electronic Communications Act yesterday, we heard a very similar text, i.e. with regard to the replacement of the then director, the director was legally dissolved, this was confirmed by the court, and I repeat this once again, indeed only the second time, because for the first time there was a procedural error that we admit, of course. And the European Commission has given us a reminder and not a reproof, an instrument is called a reminder and does not order the Director's discharge, due to the law on electronic communications, and we changed it yesterday with your help, too, thank you very much. So this admonition is irrelevant. Regarding material revenge, or that some companies in this area are expected to do worse than they did before. The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology only implements regulation in electronic communications. Preparation of regulations, preparation of legislation, care for Telekom, as an economic society that is not owned by the majority of the state, and this was also the reason why this activity had to be separated from the Ministry of Economy. This has been pointed out by the European Commission, what I am concerned about today in the speakers' words is that the European Commission has practically not been heard, except as regards the reminder. The set of directives is an extremely complex material, which is in the background. Last year it was renovated, we're working on its implementation, and I'll tell you that it's a hard job, we're dealing with some delays due to the staffing difficulties and the like, but we're gonna do this job. Perhaps only with regard to healthy blood in the veins of our economy, Mr Jerovšek. A very beautiful parable could be said, and this is what we create – the conditions for companies to operate in this field of information society, but not to interfere with their operation. This is important. Therefore, the Apache must be independent and legislation in the field of electronic communications and information society must be produced in the broadest agreement with all partners in a very transparent manner. If I can sum it up. The fields of electronic communication and the service part of the information society, which are also integrated within the European Commission under one Directorate, must remain together. We can discuss whether it's at this or that ministry, but the area, as a department, the subsector, certainly needs to stay together. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u140	Thank you very much. The word has been prepared by Dr. Pavel Gantar. Radovan Žerjav. [[He won't discuss it.]] They should be prepared for Miran Györek, Andrej Magajna, Franco Juri.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u141	Thank you very much, Mr. Vice President. This is Drnovškov's prize winner Pavel Gantar and I would like to say first as Drnovškov's rewarder Pavel Gantar that I have the honour to speak as Mr Drnovška's rewarder. But, colleagues and colleagues, don't fool around. The purpose of this law is not electronic communication, not information society, but Gregor Golobič. And the goal of this law is fifty minutes, as the SDS Group has charged itself, fifty minutes of the usual monthly mutilation of Gregor Golobič, Ministry of Higher Education. But I must warn you, the target is no longer there. Mr Gregor Golobič has resigned, the target will come to Parliament and I am sure that some arrow will fly in some other direction, where this one has flown, and interesting and fun will observe it, and I will have a lot of work up there in my opinion. All the main arguments why the transfer of the competences of electronic communications from the Ministry where it is now cannot be transferred to the Ministry of Economy have already been made. The most important argument, of course, is that the policy-making function and regulatory function in the field of information society and electronic communications must not, I repeat, be at the same Ministry as management of capital shares of Post and Telekom Slovenije. That is why I, as the Minister of the Information Society, have already received comments, which is why Mr Janša, not Janez, the other Janša received comments, and therefore the Director of the Directorate for Electronic Communications had to withdraw from the Telecom supervisory board because he cannot be a politician, regulator and supervisor in society at the same time. And there's no doubt about it. If you do this, you will go directly against the directives of the European Union. Everything else is your political speculation. First, as Radio Yerevan says, the year 2009 did not stop, so the looting of this area by the party Zares and so on would begin. Is that true? In principle, it's true, but the looting didn't start, but it just stopped. In 2004, however, the division of the two powers of information society and electronic communication between the Ministry of Higher Education, led by the Minister of NSI and the Ministry of Economy, led by the Minister of the SDS. We said then, gentlemen, if you don't want the Ministry of Information Society, leave this area together and transfer it to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. Even at the board meeting, I remember when we discussed the law on state administration, there was a pause because they said it would not be bad, actually. And then they came back and told me from the SDS that it wasn't working, because the divisions between the two parties were about to be split. As this spoil was then split and what was happening, look at the investments made by Telekom in Macedonia, in the countries of the former Yugoslavia and so on and the situation in which it was already in 2008. Therefore, do not talk about things, but the fact is that Slovenia has been without a unified policy of the information society and electronic communications for four years and has therefore been asking those who were once responsible for this, whom should they turn to, that they would even get a representative on the committee, that they would even know who was speaking on behalf of whom and so on. It is no wonder, therefore, that we have begun to lagging behind in certain areas, even though fundamental movements have already been made in terms of the market and so on. As for the APEK, I don't know, the looting is that you give the UMTS frequency for zero euros, while one operator then paid twenty-two million or tolars or converted into euro. Please, what are you talking about? This domestic policy, which began at the time, was catastrophic and had to be cut at the level of transparency and governance in these two areas. Notorical lies are what the editorial said about how we have an exception and where they have it as they suggest. That's not true. I studied these things thoroughly myself. None of this is true of what you said, and please, if you think you can lie to yourself directly and that no one will check on you for a lie, you can be wrong. So much for that. Target [[...]] [[turn off the microphone]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u142	Thank you very much. Mr. Franco Yuri will not discuss it. Mrs. Silva Montenegro, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u143	Thank you so much for saying that. Let me first say that I will not support the marriage for a number of reasons. The president of the National Assembly, Paula Gantar, made a clear and transparent statement. However, I will not discuss where and why and how we would place information communication technology, whether there is room in the Ministry of the Economy, nor will I assert or deny whether there is room in the Ministry of Higher Education, Development and Technology, and I will not discuss whether it is at the Ministry of Information Technology alone or not. I have not seen the analysis carried out for such a thorough change of law, nor have I felt that anyone would be interested in doing such an analysis. Even though I believe that information and communication technology, including this sector, is one of the most important technologies, it is a heart, it is the core essence of each country and it is actually a skeleton, it is actually the backbone of the state, state authorities, government and all other subsystems. If we have dealt with reorganisations so many times, we could actually put our finger on our heads, think about it and say it, but this is an important area, this area can have a profound impact on further development if we have no basic concept for this area in the past. Transposition — suitcases up, suitcases down — from one sector to another does not indicate that a country or any one, one would say, would think very deeply about it. But this is for my understanding of how much I have of this concept, given that my first job has been very closely connected to this, the third in the library, but I have actually sensed what the lack of communication links between objects means or what it means to have very successful communication links on information flows. I will not support the new law because, in the wake of the 2009 amendment, I have only warned that the time period proposed for the implementation of the change in the area may not be exactly right for three months. But now we're going just as headlessly into one change without knowing what's waiting for us in that we're going to jump into one pool without water, and that's absolutely not. That's why I'm not going to pin this novel on you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u144	Thank you very much. Mr. Franz Bogovich. [[He won't discuss it.]] Franz Jursha. [[No, no, ……]] Anton Anderlich. [[No, no, ……]] Janez Rybich. [[No, no, ……]] Sylven Tiny. [[No, no, ……]] Mag. Borut Saiovic. [[No, no, ……]] Anton Kampush. Please, Mr. Anton Kampush, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u145	Mr. Vice President, thank you for your input. Colleagues and colleagues! It is also clear from the material that the change took place at the expense of Slovenia's entry into the European Union. Therefore, there is a logical consequence that the subject has been divided into two ministries, as has been said, for economic and higher education, science and technology. And according to the logic of the matter in this area, it also judges as it was said. In the end, to make fun of the President, because the target is gone, I will no longer discuss it, and I will not support the law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u146	Thank you very much. The word has magic. Sarah Wheeler. [[She won't discuss it.]] Blackbell.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u147	Thank you very much. You're wrong, Dr. Pavel Gantar. This novel has nothing to do with Mr. Gregor Golobic. The fact that it would have been time for him to step down a year ago has already been said publicly on many occasions. The fact that he is now predicting that he will resign after June 5th is scandalous and inappropriate conduct, including unworthy of electorates and voters and citizens of this country. It does not deal with this novel with your divisions and differences in the coalition, it does not deal with this novel with your inefficiency, with inability to rule, with inability to talk in its own kind and effectively lead this story at least to early elections. However, this novel is safeguarded by one area in which you have demonstrated that you do not control it and that damage has been done by transferring from the Ministry of Economy to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology, which took place in 2009. It is better that we do not go into the period when Dr. Pavel Gantar was led by the Ministry of Information Technology, for it would be better not to say anything good and good about that period. The opportunities that were missed at the time and the opportunities that are missed today will never be rectified. What Slovenia has lost because of your inefficient management of individual departments, including this ministry, will no longer be possible to compensate. And instead of dealing with the effectiveness of setting up a government team and headquarters, the well-respected Minister of Public Administration, you are engaged in what the Ministry scheme will look like after the upcoming elections. Really funny, funny sad! The Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology has taken over this part of telecommunications and mail. In this area, we see that there have been no new effects during this period. None. At that time, this takeover took place for two reasons. One was of a clientistic nature, and the other was the removal of this station to the disobedient minister, that was Mr. Lahovnik. And these were the key reasons for this transfer of jurisdiction. There was no reason for better, more efficient work, better use of European money for this purpose, more efficient management of these systems. No, no, no. These were the main reasons, and that's what people see. Last but not least, they see this in those municipalities that expected to finally receive openness to the broadband network throughout the region. You have missed the least development in this, instead of designing things in such a way that these projects will be carried out as efficiently as possible. In the Post office, you have been working for a year with the dismissal of a successful director who made you 20 million euros in profits last year. One of the few successful directors, who is not orange-coloured politically, has to go. You've been putting it off for a year in all kinds of ways, just like you've been doing in a lot of other cases. Today we're reading that you're abandoning Ivo Ban for lack of economy. The first to be suspended is Minister Shirca, due to numerous inequities. The last of the 5 million Euros of tax money that will have to be provided for the smooth operation of public RTV. Why? For failing to take appropriate decisions in due course. The novelty, respected, does not deal with a specific name and with a specific surname and does not deal with a specific minister. It deals with an area of exceptional importance in the third millennium, which is also extremely important for the development of this country and which has been found not to have produced any effects from the Ministry of Economy to the other Ministry. There is no better way to deal with this area, or it has been proved to be worse. I will read some quotes on why this area belongs to general economic activity. This is because, in the interests and strategic directions, the dimension of the profitable marketing of services may differ significantly from the guidelines for the development of an open, advanced and user-friendly and accessible information society. Therefore, it is more reasonable that these activities take place within the Ministry responsible for the economy, rather than within the Ministry responsible for higher education, science and technology. The main focus of this ministry should not be to promote the development and introduction of new technological solutions and innovations and to put too much pressure on the economic dimension of this activity or even make it difficult to meet the already very difficult challenges facing the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology. The view is also that there is a need to continue to distinguish strictly between basic economic activities in the field of electronic communications and mail and technological development in this area by promoting the dissemination of information technologies. This will be easier if the dimension of technological development can be developed unladen and autonomously under the auspices of the Ministry of Higher Education and the economic dimension will continue to be guided and coordinated by the Ministry of Economy." Who said that? This was said by members of the Social Democrats on the ground in 2009, when they tabled an amendment to keep this area within the Ministry of the Economy. So, ladies and gentlemen, when you point to the opposition with your finger, look at yourself first. First of all, you must find that you are operationally incapable of effectively running any government, and above all, you are operationally incapable of effectively running this country. And pointing your finger at the opposition, blaming it for your operational inefficiency, shooting at individual names and names, in doing so, forgive me, will do nothing to help you. Here in this area, a well-intentioned deadline has now been offered for this area to be settled. We expected, indeed, that it might be naive to have another deadline following this deadline in the sense that I mentioned earlier, and that the opportunity would be used for a more thorough review of the activity by the departments and that we would receive another amendment from the Minister of Public Administration, which would reduce even more specific areas and thus allow even more efficient work during this time and not the future government. Instead, we have heard some nebulous claims that have absolutely nothing to do with this novel. Our only purpose was to build on these two-year experience that proved that this transfer was not effective, that it was not good, that it was bad for the country, taxpayers and people, to restore the situation that would allow these activities and activities to take place more actively. Of course, there is one thing we cannot do: in all these areas, even in the economy, we should make sure that other people, because only under these conditions would this purpose, followed by this law or this novel, be truly achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u148	Thank you very much. Mr State Secretary Györkös has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u149	Thank you very much. Unfortunately, I do not have this privilege of Members to judge incompetence and perhaps other matters of my colleague Ergen. But Mr. Chernač, only two questions I would like to ask you or ask you for a clarification. First time. What damage and what damage has been caused since this area was transferred to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology? And a second time. What is the damage caused by the Ministry of Information Society? And I'm asking you to evaluate it in numbers as well. I'm really curious. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u150	Thank you very much. Mr Secretary of State, Mr Chernač may consider this a debate because he does not have to answer, but if he wants to, he can. Mr. Blackach, would you like a word? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u151	Not because I feel obliged to explain anything, but because I think I have been very clear and very specific in this implementation. But I'm going to give you some information. During this period, since the Ministry of Higher Education has been responsible for this area, we have a great deal of confusion in the field of Post, the dismissal of the Director, which has lasted for a year and a half – instead of this resource dealing with the development of these services – and in the field of new information technologies, some unfortunate call where individual actors in this call are hunting themselves instead of ensuring that, given the needs that are, in time, adequate, adequate means to cover this area in the most disadvantaged areas as well. I am talking about the whole of the Court, about the whole of the West Party, about the entire border areas – Koroška, which were not involved in running for these funds or in getting funding for the development of the broadband network. It is the Ministry's task to identify the needs in a timely manner and to adjust the resources it has at its disposal and to take them where there is a surplus and to give them to where there are fewer. In the past period, the Ministry of Economy has launched a call that has been effective and has ensured that the projects have taken place as expected. Here in this area we have disputes, we have a blockage in the implementation of this project, numerous complaints, audits and so on. It could be difficult to believe that this is an effective approach and an effective path.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u152	Thank you very much. As a proponent? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u153	Your Honor! I would really ask if at least a further part of the debate could be held in a reasoned manner, but then we are talking about the real dimensions. Earlier, a respected member of the ruling coalition, who has now left this room, said that if we return this to the Ministry of Economy, it is a leap into the unknown. Please! Such an arrangement, which she calls a leap into the unknown, has been in force for many years and has been successful and there have been no problems. This was a time of rapid development in this area, when we could have been examples to some other countries. Today, look at the web site, how accessible or accessible a broadband signal is in the whole country, not just in some city cores, and you will see that some other countries, which we have very much liked back a little longer, are overtaken and talked about how we are in the field of electronic media or the development of electronic communications to them as a great example and an unattainable goal. Today, for example, Slovakia has some other countries – look at those spheres of broadband accessibility, this is well published on the Internet, and on these web pages, which are professionally involved, the European Union has this review done, and you will see what the real situation is. Today, that bullet in Slovenia is much smaller, but we were once far ahead. Because this place has been lost a lot of time because of political cleansing, because of this cutting down of the country as a spoil that you went to in 2009. That's why it was actually this transmission, and now you can pack one way or another. At that time, we pointed out that this transfer was not meaningful, that it would be better for things to be left alone and developed as quickly as possible, for each such move would only waste some time. There was nothing then of any developmental profit, no positive effect for Slovenia, no synergetic effect, which we listened to in the debates at the time, but probably half of those who used that word didn't know exactly what they were trying to say. But today the results are poor and why not return to a solution that has proved to be relatively long in time than the one that has not caused some particular problems. That is to say, if there has ever been a leap into the unknown, because that's how you like to turn things right to your head, it was a leap into the unknown precisely this transfer to the Ministry of Higher Education, Science and Technology Development from the Ministry of Economy. But going back is going back to the known, to what worked better. Probably because the then minister for the economy did not have the slightest desire to go to political cleansing, so he later got out of this suit or was expelled, as some would like to say. Today I have the feeling that – we are going back to the symbolism of the great week – some want to nail themselves to the cross if there are some victims because they want to distance themselves from the government. It's just, you know, because those colleagues who do this, the atheists, don't count on the miracle that then on the day of the election they'll rise from the dead. There will be no such thing as a miracle! Well, when we are in the second part; earlier, Mr Gantar spoke very much and for a long time about the high payments for individual services, which were made in the field of electronic communications over a period of time, and the credits for this implicitly, partly attributed to himself. Indeed, some things were very overpaid during a certain period; but, ladies and gentlemen, it was speculation! For speculation, which over time proved beneficial only to the country which was able to allocate funds so well into the budget and, of course, roasted them, while for the development of electronic communications it was not very positive. Today, this speculation threatens everyone who has performed in it with those high, in euros, hundred million payments, to become extremely harmful because they have damaged their own development. What happened to that speculation? All expected that the technology would go in the direction that was then announced by all the various gourmets, including the then competent ones, that was during the previous government of SD and LDS, ministers in Slovenia. But they counted, and those predictions were wrong! The development of electronics, electronic communications, all of these services went in a different direction, and that service, for which they paid so much in a speculative way because they were later expecting extremely high profits, proved to be a catastrophic business move with which some even went into debt, while others made use of funds that could otherwise be used to spread infrastructure, in particular light cables, broadband infrastructure that is now most used by modern Internet, then ran out of money. It is therefore necessary to know that the period that Mr Gantar spoke about, but it was much later, at the time it was clear that technology was going in a different direction, that there would obviously never be such a high profit, and today it is clear to everyone in this Chamber. Those who once overpaid were counted, it was speculation that proved to be harmful; it was speculation that was also promoted by the then authorities. Since, of course, the budget was being filled, which is, in some ways, a purely legal objective, and the problem is that it was actually potentially damaged, if you want, by the infrastructure of electronic communications, which was therefore, at the expense of certain funds, which would otherwise necessarily be needed for its own development. That's why, in Mr Gantar's place, I wouldn't be gunning myself as hard as he was on that case. Let us go back to the problem that we are dealing with today; in this last period, it has turned out that many who are covering this area and who clearly also have public property or state property, if you want, are no longer doing as well as before. There are more reasons for this, but it is certainly going to be rejected here by the constant excuse that the current crisis situation in the world is responsible for everything in this area, because we have been listening to these larifari for a very long time. Firstly, this crisis in the field of electronic communications in the narrow sense of the word almost did not cover, in many countries. In a number of countries, this was even the only area that prospered greatly during that period. That's why it's obvious to say it for your hair. At the top of all, however, another situation needs to be taken into account; see how it is with development in neighbouring countries, in the euro area, at the moment. All neighbouring countries that are comparable to Slovenia – again, I will say that some of those that many in Slovenia have loved so much a few years ago – today have significantly bigger and significantly faster economic development than Slovenia! Because, at the time, ladies and gentlemen of the ruling coalition, when you were dealing with cow trades, with political exchanges of experts and replacing them with their political figures, they were taking other care of measures to revive their economy. What we have offered at these sessions, 63 measures at the same session – you have rejected everything, to the last! From political prestige, because we proposed it from the opposition. You have also rejected such measures, which would not be one euro of taxpayer money alone, but would only save money to small and medium-sized enterprises, which is the engine of every normal economy – you have rejected everything from political prestige! Today, when we are about to have the referendum dinner of the current government, remember that it is precisely this pomp, this political prestige, from which you have rejected all good laws, as well as all the amendments to your legal solutions made by the opposition, that we are now witnessing to a relatively large number of referendums. You've prepared your own menu for this last dinner. I must say, I am not happy that we are witnessing the situation in Slovenia, as it is. But to blame the opposition for this – we have proposed measures, we have proposed laws, we have proposed various solutions. Just in time! You've rejected everything, to the last! Amendments! When we proposed an amendment, it was only to save some money to entrepreneurship, to the economy, we often came across ridicule. I remember very well when my colleague was talking about how the opposite side shriveled. But today you don't want to laugh, today it's just empty chairs. And silence; the silence of failure that whispereth unto heaven. I believe it's hard to listen to, but ladies and gentlemen, for what you once shared, you cut your cake into slices – one you got at that time also the Minister for Higher Education, who is now distanced from his own government – what you ate, ladies and gentlemen, will now have to be paid once. And this account is already here, but unfortunately, what is really sad; it will not only be paid by you, it will pay the whole of Slovenia. For this reason, it would be good to listen to at least these proposals, which are before you today, that things that obviously do not work well return to where they have worked well before, because they were not merely preying on some current policies or even personal ambitions, but were well placed in the structure of the normal functioning of our country and in favour of the economy as a whole. In electronic communications, ladies and gentlemen, however, we would expect a little more hearing and also a search for consensus. Electronic communication is now at the heart of development, because knowledge is what development brings. Otherwise, building on development as on knowledge is perfect, not only wrong, but another term I will use, in advance of failure, a doomed attempt. Knowledge alone brings success today. As a result, the field of electronic communications, through which this information is transmitted today, is so sensitive and so vital to the development of the country. Let us put this back into form and way where it once worked well and developed well, because it should be a development in the interest of all, including you, who in these days are saying goodbye to authority: one by one, one by one.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u154	Thank you very much, Mr Grimes, for returning to the law that we are considering today and which he has proposed after a great turn. Mr State Secretary Györkös has the floor.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u155	Thank you very much. Just a brief explanation. I may have previously exceeded my powers as a representative of the Government in order to have an argumentated discussion, and I have asked Mr Chernač for that explanation. You only responded to me with one of the projects running in this area, i.e. broadband networks. Let me make it very clear that this instrument was designed between 2005 and 2008, as was the overall structural policy. The instrument is indignant, definitely, I must agree with you, and we have very serious difficulties in implementing and monitoring and using this instrument. A more flexible instrument would certainly be possible, which cannot be achieved now that cohesion policy is designed and implemented. However, I agree with Mr Grims that information technologies are a very important part of science and research. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Guido Kres has the floor. Mr. Jože Tanko has the floor for him. Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u157	Thank you so much for saying that. Good bye to all of you! First of all, it is a kind of problem that it is not a minister who has the direct competence of telecommunications. We're talking about transferring to another area, to the source area, and not the one that had this facility before, and not the one that now has this area. In short, both ministers, who are originally responsible for this, are in fact absent and the colors of the government are defended by those who are not directly affected by these matters. The second thing I would like to point out is that last year we passed an integrity law in this National Assembly. Very forcefully, very quickly and in that marriage there is one chapter, the eighth chapter, which speaks of lobbying. In fact, the whole policy, all the officials do what they can and can't do. The Minister, who owns, co-owners of a telecommunications company, manages the telecommunications sector and has not yet identified any dispute: no conflicts of interest, no prohibitions, no specific cases. It seems strange to me that, for example, officials, Members, should record any conversation with a lobbyist or anyone else, while the Minister may also be able to speak as, for example, the owner of one or more telecommunications companies, with all the telecommunications sector, in this area, no one has noticed any conflict of interest. I find that extremely unusual. If we want these things to work in some way hygienically, to at least appear impartial, then it is clear to everyone in this country that this segment should not be in the department of the Minister of Higher Education; not because it is co-owner of one company, and consequently more companies dealing with telecommunications. This is unusual, and I find it very unusual for the party to allow this, because several bills have been tabled in this mandate, which are particularly of moral value. The party Really - the new policy has introduced some laws with a very large, I will say, moral weight to bring back what was estranged, illegal and so on. There are also some such cases, but in this particular case things are working out – not to say officially. Second. In fact, this mandate shows some great greed for free capital in companies and funds, which are created by some systems. We can talk about the decommissioning of the nuclear power plant, we can talk about the capital of the Post or the reallocation of the funds of the Post to finance capital investments, something similar with Telekom. Some have spent this money on recapitalisation of the New Maribor Credit Bank, while others, who manage those who have control over these systems under their jurisdiction under the scope of the benchmark, are most strongly opposed. The main, fundamental dispute in this government is the act for which the excessive funds of Telekom and, for example, excessive funds of Post Slovenia were used: to recapitalise the New Credit Bank of Maribor and to preserve the country's share in this bank. This is a fundamental conflict at government level. A few days ago, we were all following this strong battle between the SD – between the Finance Minister, between the Director of the Capital Investment Management Agency, Komarjevo – and the twin from Zares: Golobič and Radićevo. Interesting. Why such a strong battle at the highest level for free financial resources? What's in the background? Is the last wave of transition announced on the way, when all these channels need to be directed and the excess resources directed at some silent societies? I think that yesterday, I think, we had the Company Act, the conflict of interest, or the fact that company directors have to inform the Supervisory Board whether they own a silent company operating with a company; you have proposed very unfavourable solutions, a milder thirst in this area. Probably not without reason, because large state-owned companies, large state systems are very exposed, especially to the spillage of funds provided by members of the administration, to silent companies usually owned by those same directors in public or state-owned companies. Some cases have been discovered in the past few months, including in the Talum, but nothing concrete has happened in this area, no conflicts of interest have been identified, no procedures have been initiated; the supervisory councils that supervise have found that there are no irregularities, no suspicions, no actions and so on. In short, it is obvious that in these cases there are large transfers that can also be covered by contracts for the transfer of public funds to private accounts abroad. The state and coalition and the parties that cover this, which do not ensure that these things are cleaned quickly, must have some interest in the background. It is obvious that this coalition will hold out so long that these interests will fit in properly, channel properly, and properly protect themselves. All the changes so far in public property management have also been reorganised in such a way that they have withdrawn from the eyes and supervision of the National Assembly. We can talk about Kadu, we can talk about the Court, we can talk about agricultural land; a number of these important ownership potentials of the country have withdrawn to some third, fourth level and the National Assembly has no special powers here, has been abolished. Unfortunately, this problem of telecommunications management also causes other problems. I have before me one of the appeals to the call for funds for the broadband network for demographically endangered areas, according to the local word. This complaint states that there are suspicions of criminal and corrupt acts. It is written that they have fallen out only because they have the wrong or have no court operator of telecommunications. That's interesting. It is written that things happened subsequently, after the invitation to tender, and so on. I think these are actions that indicate that there is no control over this area. Even more so, in fact, the one who manages development resources in this area is caught in a very selective and privileged way in a very selective way. Those who receive a rejected decision receive the following written matter: "Investment for the future," it says below, "Your role is rejected". This investment is very bad in the future, if the areas at risk cannot be affected, highly displaced areas to the telecommunications network; this is the only thing we can provide them with. Indeed, good road connections are no longer available to them, they can be telecommunications, and they fall on all of these calls. This is not a privilege, it is the deprivability and preservation of incompatible development, the provision of incompatible development in the future. Unfortunately, even for those cities and areas for which commercial interest has been expressed for broadband networks, matters do not run, but should in fact be realized. Very many settlements, very many interesting areas have also been covered by Telekom's conclusion that it has a commercial interest there and that in a short time, I think in two, three years, they will build a broadband network and nothing is happening. I wonder if this is a systemic game, whether there are other interests in these things, or whether it is a systemic blockade and a deliberate inhibition of this development. If they are unable to exercise a commercial interest, then let them unblock and release them through calls, via so-called white foxes, or gray foxes, or whatever you call it. In short, the area is extremely confusing. A while ago, there was also a meeting of the Higher Education Committee, where this issue was addressed. The Minister and the coalition agreed to review the matter and to report on the matter to the National Assembly. I don't think any of this is done, that there's no information, that there's no answers. I do not know whether this has been committed or not, but I think after two months it would be time to give at least some specific information to the National Assembly and to this working body on the basis of the calls for proposals. In fact, this shows that this coalition, and also those who manage it, is now the real policy, the ambition, in particular, of blocking as many things as possible; that as many things are directed in a certain way as possible through calls for proposals. If I am reading this complaint, I see that these calls are actually fictitious; just so that the tendering process is carried out, it is only for the fact that it did not come up with a purely personal decision of the director to whom the funds can be given, but then in these proceedings these matters were redesigned, renamed, redistributed and so on. For these reasons, I think it is necessary to return this area to the home area, which is what the Ministry of the Economy says, and also to ensure that some correct implementation of policies in this area, governance in this area, calls in this area and also coverage of broadband territory. In short, something has to be done, because in the way that this area is now regulated, it is clearly contrary to the Integrity Act, to a number of other things, and it is not possible to provide a transparent view, transparent action, transparent implementation, transparent use of European funds and so on. This is a guarantee that things will go wrong if they stay as they are. However, they were transferred for certain reasons. There was no objective reason for this activity to be transferred to the Ministry of Higher Education. Absolutely no conditions or reasons. That is why I will support the solution, and I will support the law that brings this back to the intervention of the Ministry of the Economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u158	Mr Jožef Jerovšek has the floor. [[He's not here.]] The government's representative has the floor if she wants the word. Mrs. Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u159	Thank you very much. In fact, sometimes people ask themselves, honourable Members of the SDS, when you throw up so many negative opinions, so much misleading data, so many untruths, whether anyone in this country is actually able to answer you over and over again with the same arguments and at any time to expect you to hear them. Otherwise, I usually find it difficult to accept and not give up quickly, even if for any of the areas, in fact for any of these areas, I am not competent, but still. The 2009 transfer of a field of work from one ministry to another was not the only solution proposed this year when the government was created. It has been assessed: for the first time, harmful behaviour and reduced efficiency due to dispersion during your government. Therefore, it made sense to combine regulatory functions in the field of electronic communications and mail in one place. Further immeasurably misleading is the issue of integrity in relation to the operations of the two companies listed: Mail and Telekom with Ultra. I think that it has been said a thousand times, in explanation, that the question of the Minister of State over companies has never come up before the Agency for Capital Investment Management was set up. Sectoral policy of Telekom and Post Slovenia is in the past and also after this change is formed at the Ministry of Economy. This has already been said 100 times and I do not want to say it again, but because of the hope that the public may take any of this as a more convincing fact. But I have a feeling that this will never work, because as many deceptions and lies as you manage to tell the Slovenian public in a few minutes, I do not have these abilities, and many of us do not. What has been proposed in addition to touching the organisation of the administration and the incompetence of the current government – transferring areas from one ministry to another due to political procurement. We have ineffectively set up ministries, which is why we are ineffective. Of course, you've done it brilliantly! From this point of view, the organisation, as you set it up in 2004, the ruling party of the SDS, i.e. the proponents, and those who cast these obviouss on this side, is the same, with lower wages, with fewer officials in the state administration, because we had to respond immediately to the crisis. And we did some of that, but we never knew how to boast as much as you did about something you didn't do, and you told the Slovenian public intensely how you did it. Have you ever, during your term of office, said that from 2004 to 2008, there have been 6 000 new employees in the public sector, during your term of office, from 2004 to exactly 5 thousand 900 and more. On average, over a thousand a year. In the areas of health, education, social care. Never! Minister Virant spoke intensively about how he managed to reduce the number of employees in the civil part of the state administration, I apologize, in four years by 250. But you have been harassing us for two years – and on your last question, Mrs Jeraeva, when you ask about the number of agencies, offices and so on: the number of employees in this period has been reduced by more than 500 in the civil part of the state administration and by 100 in the agencies – and this is what I am talking about – with the change, the concentration of specialized tasks, the support tasks in the Public Property Fund. In the Public Procurement Agency, of course, we are preparing the conditions for amending the Law on State Administration, which must take place. And I answer, not as a political bargaining, once in this country it is necessary to set up a rational organisation of ministries, regardless of the needs of the current authorities. It is no longer possible to allow and expect the administration to be effective if each new authority moves from one ministry to another or by creating new ministries and thus destabilises it; and that is exactly what we are doing. All current authorities. That's how 18 ministries were created. It is no longer possible – and what Mr Cernač has told me – to think boldly during the time of this government, how good it would be to organise the composition of ministries for future power. I regret that when we took our mandate, we did not make this effort. There were suggestions. Also, the crisis that has to be tackled in an innovative way, if you want, has required its commitment to the current government. That is why my thinking and the starting point for optimising the business processes and organising the state administration has gone so that it is right to propose and think carefully about the time of the current government. We no longer have public funds for the 19 ministries, we no longer have such poor coordination between the individual tasks they are required to carry out and therefore be less effective – we all agree. But in a serious debate under the State Administration Act, which will first be communicated in the social dialogue with the unions and then with you, I think we need to urgently put in place a stable structure of ministries, bodies in the composition – that is, stronger administration, if you want – to reduce the number of these agencies, public funds. We see that for 30% this is possible in a way of combining. It is estimated that it is appropriate to organise these persons of public law when all tasks are taken over from the ministries of the field, to focus on these persons of public law, such as the Public Property Fund and also the Public Procurement Agency, and then to bring together those ministries where tasks need to be coordinated daily so that they can be carried out effectively. Further strengthen those services in the ministries that are now listed: regulation preparation, enforcement, control and analysis of the effects of regulations. These efforts cannot be different, regardless of which government takes over. For those of you who have long been in politics, it is imperative that this be left to every authority to share the spoils at the beginning of your term of office — you say. Mr Jerovšek says "political shopping". The ministries share, organise in a way that the coalition partners are satisfied and so on. Nor did the current government perform this task at the time of its term of office, because it is also difficult to do it at the beginning of the mandate – to reduce the number of ministries from 18 to 10, which is optimal and we do not really need it anymore, given that there are two million of us. It must be a deliberate act, which also means moving a hundred and a hundred public servants. I think that at the beginning of the mandate the system environment must be ready, people already integrated, support services already united – and if you want provocatively, Mr Grims, of course, I will let you know, once you have written us off, that you will have a soft bed. It was not easy to prepare for the centralisation of real estate management; therefore, at one point the rental of premises for the affairs of the public authorities, at one place of investment, at one place of construction of the premises. Now my Directorate for Investment and Real Estate at the Ministry of Public Administration has had only the intervention of the construction of administrative centres within the framework of competence and in part of border crossings in cooperation with other ministries. That was bad, all the other ministries were building, investing, hiring themselves. It was not easy to concentrate this, but it will now be centralised by the public fund on May 1st, where more than 200 people will be transferred from ministries, transferred properties, censuses, lists. For these people the same skills, specialization will be easy not to replace them when someone goes to peace because they will be the same behaviors and skills. In fact, we will be able to increase efficiency, with fewer people we will be able to do more, because public funding is not enough. Public procurement is also dispersed despite the Integrity and Prevention of Corruption Act, which requires these services to draw up integrity plans. The Agency shall prepare it first, in cooperation with the Anti-Corruption Commission. Transparency, transparency and efficiency in the management of public procurement will improve, as all ministries will have to drive public procurements above the European threshold through the Public Procurement Agency in the implementation work. I think we need to do the same in the field of information technology, which is now scattered and significantly less effective than if it were centralised, concentrated. On the other hand, I think that human resources management should also be concentrated. Four such central persons or, if you like, government services are enough and ten ministries. We don't need any more for optimal organization. And you're telling me it's jalo's job. We have prepared an analysis of the situation as a starting point for a discussion on the further optimization of business processes in the state administration. However, for the public sector, we have prepared a new Law on Institutions, which is very broad because you have recently refused to accept this extremely demanding provision to introduce to you, because after two years of preparation and coordination with the social partners, it seems appropriate for us all to get to know the basics, the basis for further reforming the public sector service work. Otherwise, we will not improve this society of ours. Otherwise, we will not improve our systems. And this government has done a lot to improve systems, not just with cuts. Mr Grims, these opportunities for better work of the state administration, the service work of the public sector are waiting for you, who are trying to gain power. It is therefore unclear to me that you are toying here with some law, which is actually a pure example of pre-election performance and degradation of a government decision in 2009. See how you simplify with your discourse: "You took the Lahar, you gave the Golobic." Who could have taken anything from Minister Lachovnik? We don't make decisions in the government by voting. Minister Lahovnik is, for the reasons stated in the 2009 proposal, because of the conflict of interest, because at the time he was also a sectoral policymaker for Telekom, for Mail Slovenia, this was his responsibility and is also today the responsibility of Minister Radic, or since the establishment of the Capital Investment Management Agency, is nothing more than a sectoral policy, a strategy that you will endorse in the National Assembly, as capital investment management policy is now envisaged. It's pure politics. Speaking in explanation of this law about a major loss of Telekom because this area has no connection with Telekom as an economic society, it is in the sectoral policy of the Ministry of Economy. In short, the Law on State Administration is changing. I note and inform you that, at the beginning of the mandate, if this is a major shift or merger, then the reduction in the number of ministries for themselves will take at least a year or a half for these institutions to start working. Therefore, I am sorry to inform you that you do not want to see this effort made as a starting point for optimising business processes, because otherwise, in the next term, other than 10% of the reduction in the salaries of employees, which is the easiest thing to do, you will not be left to keep the wages at a level of four billion, such as the commitment and, of course, we cannot. To that extent, we were able to rule. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u160	Thank you very much. Mr. Jože Tanko has the replica. Mr. Blackach, is there a replica? Here you go, Mr. Tanko.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u161	Thank you very much. Madam Minister said that after these discussions on our side we have said many things. Now I wonder whether the dispute over the recapitalisation of the New Credit Bank Maribor between SD and Really Lies is true or not. The truth. So this is – otherwise I have discussed and talked about it – then the truth if you say it yourself is the truth. I wonder if the invitations to tender for, say, Kočevsko, White Krajina, Posočje, Prlecija, Koroška truth or non-truth are rejected? They're the truth. That this issue of these calls was addressed by the Committee on Higher Education in the National Assembly, is that true or false? It's the truth. See that there are no answers to these questions that have been addressed here and that Minister Golobic has promised to address them. So is that true or is that not true? There are no answers. That's all we've been talking about. Is it true or false that you're making Hauc, the director of the post? Klemen Grošelj frowned long and wide, the supervisory council was forcibly replaced, in an unusual way, the vote was carried out in an unusual way. Is that true or is that not true? This is all verifiable, this is what the media have written about, and this is the subject of parliamentary questions, so this is the truth. The fact that things are not arranged, that things are scattered, you said yourself, because part of the telecommunications area – transferred to higher education, the sector part represents the Ministry of the Economy; you said so yourself in your replies, twice or three times. So, it's a mess. What we are proposing is that the part that has been transferred to higher education should be put back into the economy and merged with sectoral policy. Madam Minister, this is our proposal, and I hope that we have understood that we are proposing exactly what you are saying. All the things about employment, all the things about growth in government, it pays, and that's not the subject of this law. That's not the topic of this law! I was present in this work, and I have discussed it, and all that I have discussed is a fact. Don't tell me this isn't right! With regard to the operations of these two, Mail and Telekom, the problem is, at least with Telekom, the problem. In one year, the business outcome changed substantially; from a positive result to more than 200 million minus. That's what I'm talking And there are no measures, no decisions, no things that would lead to anything against the management of Telekom. Investments were missed in the Balkans, and many write-offs in the Balkans, and you did nothing. Nothing! All the management, say, of this company that was named during this period and did it, stays where it is. This is the problem with the functioning of the state administration, the departmental ministries and others. Against Mr Hauc, who is a successful director, Mail still shows good profits in business, but only for so long and so long has it been pursued and tried in every way to change it. The biggest problem with this director is that he did not create a loss, otherwise he would be a real coalition manager. The moment someone manages to do something good wrong, the real coalition partner is ideal for a dream team. All those who work differently in this public sector, which create some good results, some positive conditions, are the main thorn in the heel. This has happened too many times in this term. That's exactly the kind of thing. And the reorganisation you're making, the changes you're making [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u162	Mr. Tanko, you said you'd have a replica. It's been five minutes. I'll let you talk, but it's been five minutes.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u163	are simply such that these things need to be arranged and channeled to the places where they used to be. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u164	Thank you very much. Mr. Blackach, please.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u165	The distinguished minister told her that I had told her that she had the nerve to plan a government organisation or ministry for a future term. I didn't read it to her. I said it was a non-productive job. The opportunity was when you transferred this government and this responsibility, or at the latest, when you transferred the area that we are talking about today from one ministry to another. That was, I think, somewhere in 2009. At that time, it was time to come with the organisation – by the way, your ministry would have to drop out first on such a proposal, because I do not know the European State that would have the Ministry of Public Administration and many other parastatal institutions and offices that you have set up during this period by dozens. That would have made sense, then this fruitful work and the effects of it would have been the whole country and would have supported you in the opposition as well. What did you do during this period? You have established a number of new offices, you have set up a number of new agencies, you have increased the number of employees in the public administration, in the public sector. During the period when more than 60,000 jobs were lost, the figure increased in this part. You're saying that by setting up these new agencies, you mentioned one for real estate management, that you've done something good with it, that this is now more efficient, etc. Really? Shall I just give you one concrete example? There is none of the SD Members here except the Vice-President who holds the meeting. These young Members took pictures together with the Minister of Defence two years ago; 929 apartments for young families were a photo term, of which 74 were transferred to the Republic Fund – they are still there. Not one of these apartments, since only 74, has been able to be arranged in two years because they are sanitary for cleaning and handing them over to those who are waiting for these apartments. Not a single one! Now I'm supposed to be dealing with this new famous agency of yours! Two more years, there'll be nothing! In short, I'm talking about, ladies and gentlemen, that it's not just the will, the good thought, the right moment, the right time and the right measures. You've mixed all this up. That's why you're, excuse me, ineffective. But you can't make some kind of foundation for the future government now that you've screwed up the matter. Don't worry about the future government, the future government will be able to set things up and bring them out in an efficient manner, just as those who trust it will be expected. Unfortunately, you've lost their trust or failed it. That's the conclusion. I'll tell you one of the agencies that you wanted to set up in Postojna because the mayoral candidate from LDS just happened to be there, the aviation agency. Of the 69 employees 35 new, only one agency. Is it economical, effective? Please. I think the public can see for themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u166	Thank you very much. Madam Minister Irma Pavlinič Krebs.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u167	Thank you very much. Mr. Blacky, you're lying. You've been lying and lying, and you've been saying that for two years. The numbers received by Members, Mrs Jeraj, Mr Gorenak, please divide and do not deceive. Increase in Number — Whom? I did a thorough analysis: in 2004 15 ministries, three government departments with ministers. This government has the same number of ministries. Organs composed during your term of office 41 – within these ministries. During our term of office: 41. Government services: your 16, our 16. Number of Directorates within ministries – smaller. The Ministry of Public Administration – yes, it will be the first to be abolished, which is why I am now working from the Directorates on centralised public law. And Mr Černač, it is not a public property agency, but it is a public real estate fund. Just as the foreign has this arranged, like all the countries around us, we will finally have it. But you have never in the past made a political effort to take these procedures from all ministries, because building and painting next to new buildings is a prestigious political action. You didn't make it. We did it. Not only in words, we passed the law, the Public Real Estate Fund starts operating in May. It's a big project. And you can make fun of that. History will tell its own story and it will certainly be significantly more effective than now that each ministry has hired itself and so on. Standards will have to be made, the same standards as for the Public Procurement Agency. We answer to Mrs Jeraev that the agencies were 11 in your mandate, now 17 in that one fund has been renamed and so on. The number of agency employees was 100 in your mandate, it is said that there are now fewer than one hundred, despite the establishment of new agencies. Because all the new agencies have been visited by people from the departmental ministries. In the field of the Public Procurement Agency, which I am the author of, we have moved people there from the Ministry of Public Administration and other ministries. With 1. 1. 2012 passes from the other ministries 35. It's not simple things. It was necessary to talk to the people that it was not the case with the Minister of Local Self-Government. People need to understand that integration processes, centralisations are for the good of this country, because they also change jobs. These processes shall be carried out quietly, in agreement with the servants who agree. So we didn't increase the number of organs, ministries, agencies. According to the number of employees – more than 500 people are less employed in the state administration today. Once again, Mr. Gorenak has this information. Despite the fact that the army hired 500 soldiers, there were 500 less. This means a significant increase in the efficiency of current state officials. In administrative units where, of course, I lead politics alone in cooperation with the chiefs, 5% of the people are less than 150. In fact, the effectiveness of the Office from this title is significantly higher for reduced wages if you want [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u168	Madam Secretary, thank you very much. Mr. Blackach. Wouldn't you give a word to the billmaker? Here you go.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u169	Dear Minister, I will not be as insulting as you were, and I will pretend to have listened to those harsh insults at the beginning because you are dehumanizing yourself. Your own information is demeaning you. Even what you've just said if we ignore your powerful documents. First of all, as regards the number of employees in the public sector. Your term of office has increased. It's getting bigger! However, the number of employees in the economy has decreased. Over 60,000 jobs were lost. These are the facts. That's what the numbers are talking about. Every year you spend about two billion more on the operation of the country than it is created. Two billion a year — these are numbers. Spend more than you need to. The number of agencies, you said yourself, has increased. Is fiction a public procurement agency — or is it called, or is it not important — for this real estate management? Is fiction the Capital Investment Management Agency? Is fiction an air traffic agency? Is fiction an agency for, I think, safety or something like that, in road traffic? Are the numbers that I spoke earlier based on your documents that you had in the Government of October: on Tuesday you had an air traffic agency based in Postojna, on Thursday and on the government already based in Ljubljana? That was that week after the election, because the story ended unfortunately. And is it fiction that there is a need for 69 employees, of which 35 are existing and 34 are new? None of this is fiction, Your Honor, so watch what you say in the future; don't insult people and act with arguments. Above all, it would be important for you to make appropriate, effective decisions during this period and to organise the functioning of this country optimally. You crashed, and you can't do that for the future government. That was my message. Thank you.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u170	Does he still want a proposal? Then I invite you to your word.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u171	Your Honor! I must say that the ratio of the opposition and coalition members present in this debate was in some way very symbolic in view of the upcoming elections; more, until two minutes ago, when two lost sons or one lost daughter and one son of the coalition returned, there was no one in the Chamber, except for the chairman, or any member of the coalition parties or groups. Not a single one! I was about to ask if there might be an election, but we know that's the outcome. But in any case, it says a lot; not only because of the symbolism, but also because we put it in the context of the debate that is going on. When it was necessary to divide the country as a spoil, they sat there lined up to the last, all the chairs were full and they voted over every argument we had, if it was still supported by numbers, facts. They've voted it all out. Now that the consequences of their actions are here, the consequences of their policies, but hardly anyone else hopes to enter this hall. That also says something about a ruling coalition, I must say. Madam Minister said the following, "that we carry out so many lies, untruths, stupidity and immeasurably misleading that..." and then even gave a lecture. But, Mrs Krebs, may I remind you that the Secretary of State of the Ministry who was present here has fully agreed with what I have said. That's who's here saying "lying, untruth, stupidity and immeasurably deceiving"?Oh, my God! I guess you don't have to think too much about what this is all about. By the way, you've done a long-term analysis of everything, so I wanted to ask myself if there might be a mistake in electronic communications, when it's just a proposal for electronic communications, and it's not even noticeable that it's this law anymore. But I will follow your example in some way as well, and perhaps broaden this debate a little bit, because it feels like you've made a lot of use of that until the last minute just to take advantage of the opportunity to still stand behind the microphone. For now in this government, I know that you are also aware of this, and I understand the Secretary of State, who is in trouble, because when the Minister left him alone, he is on his own, and it is clear that he has gone away. And now you're acting as a paraphrase for that old Czech joke. What is the most beautiful Czech joke? This is, of course, from the times of the Warsaw Pact or the Soviet Union. The most beautiful Czech joke is that the Russians are leaving quickly. What's the longest beautiful Czech joke? That the Russians are leaving one by one, one by one [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u172	Mr Grims, Mr Grims. [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u173	As the Government departs [[...]] [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u174	Mr. Grimes!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u175	One at a time, one at a time, one at a time. [[...]] So, [[...]]
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u176	Mr Grims, would you be so good, please discuss what we are discussing!
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u177	It is also my debate that has to do with the subject as discussed by the Minister [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I told you, I'm just gonna adjust for a second, just to show some solidarity with the government. What the Minister would like to say, however, is her comment that we are toying with this law. In fact, now, Madam Minister, look at the situation in the field of electronic communications, if you want to, as a chronic argument, why these old ones must be arranged differently and we propose the simplest solution to return the solution that has already worked well in the past; it has proved to be a good thing. In fact, today the situation in the field of electronic communications is such that in the tender for broadband networks that are key for the development of a region, the following parts of Slovenia have been eliminated: White landscape as a territory along the border with Croatia, northern coastal region as a territory along the border with Italy, northern Koroška as a territory on the border with Austria and one part of Prekmurje as a territory on the border with Hungary. This is said to be precisely the most sensitive parts of Slovenia; those most in need of development incentives have been smoothly excluded from the tenders. Some with such a strange explanation that when I read it, I could not understand what they were reading. They did everything, they had everything, they fulfilled all the conditions — they were all eliminated! This, Madam Minister, was effectively excluded from the development of the state of Slovenia by the exact same government, which, at the same time, adopts specific laws on, I quote, "equal regional development" in the National Assembly. But don't make fun of the words! Just when it comes to electronic communication, it is twice as important because, on the one hand, it does not only allow people, including those involved in science – in short, if you want intellectuals to stay in some area – but also enables the development of a certain part of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. Moreover, virtually all entrepreneurship today is a broadband network a fundamental condition for normal functioning, for normal business. Here in recent years, not only has it done nothing, I claim that a great injustice has been committed. I've already listed those border areas, maybe some sort of solution at the time, I don't know. The Minister has promised a report, we probably won't even wait for it now, but in any case, there was something very wrong with both sides. Above all, it is reliable and evident from the point of view of the Government, because even when we were discussing the issue of electronic communications and broadband networks and public calls, the Minister acknowledged in this regard that he was considering bringing certain actions against individuals at the Ministry and some who were supposed to call on this ministry. On the other hand, the representatives of the municipalities — quite a number of mayors present there — have pointed out that they are also considering lawsuits against the Ministry or the Minister and the State of Slovenia for lost developmental potentials as well as for, according to their assessment, obvious infringements when it comes to the further development of electronic communications. Such is the actual situation, Madam Minister, in the field of electronic communications at this time. I submit that, even or perhaps especially because of this transfer, and obviously today, this area is much more politically exposed or, if you want, politicised than it was before, when it was different and within another ministry. For this reason we propose this solution, this is not the solution, as you said, for toys. Obviously, someone has been toying with electronic communications and with the development of the border areas of Slovenia, those most exposed: exposed to the pressure of neighbouring nations exposed to the vital interests of the state of Slovenia, to be as connected as possible with the border areas, as it is the vital interest of each country to make the most of it, on the other hand, to preserve life, life and development in these areas. Do you know what's going on in the border areas today? Not only entrepreneurs, I have repeatedly warned about this, but young families are now moving from Slovenia to Austria. This is a national disaster and now it's the highest level! And why? Because they don't have broadband electronics here, and they don't have anything else. And certainly not the last, because in Slovenia because of bluffing, how we have successful state banks, no one dares to move into a real estate balloon, the price of real estate, a square meter of walled land up there, say, 250 euros, just across the border – but the borders are no longer because we are in Schengen – is 15 to 25 euros municipally equipped with a meter of walled building land. Yeah, it's normal for people to go there! It's normal for entrepreneurs to go there! And we don't even build them infrastructure, we deny them. People apply for invitations and are expelled, so that even the minister there couldn't tell them exactly why. I told him we'd wait to see if there was a complaint or how it would end. This is a real situation in the field of electronic communications and thus the real question or, if you want, the real situation on Slovenia's vital development field. Because Slovenia cannot build on some mass industry or anything like that. He just doesn't have the conditions. He can only build on knowledge. But for your knowledge, you need an extremely good electronic communications infrastructure. And there is now two years not only of death, but of actual decline for competing countries. We are also losing this; we are losing the potential and time that will not be recovered from anything. However, this is a national issue of development. With nothing, Madam Minister, we cannot return this, and the numbers you have cited have nothing to do with this. Because it doesn't matter how many there are in public administration. If this were effective, it would not be as important as it may seem. These two issues are much more important: the question of developing electronic communications and thus building knowledge-based society, a developmental, entrepreneurial society. On the other hand, it is a question of friendly society, as well as, if you would like, again in the field of electronic communication or other conditions of human life. After all, I think it would be a great time if you've already expanded this topic so much that someone would break through this real estate balloon, from which only real estate speculators are profiting, and those in banks that are at the expense of a fake oversized portfolio are paying off too much of a successful business, and then they need banks for new and new capitalisation and new recapitalisations, and in fact we pay taxpayers with twice the quality of life as well as with the recapitalisation of these banks. Someone should have figured it out, because we must also become comparable after that at least to neighbouring countries. This is a completely long-term unsustainable state for you to have good judicial protection across the border, financial discipline, a square meter of walled-up building land of 15 to 25 euros, immediately to the home broadband connection with the light cable and the providers are literally competing to do it to you. With us — the other way around! Where they could even receive state aid to establish a broadband network and thus establish an electronic communications system, in an area that is already more exposed – that is where they are denied it! And then you will convince me that the current arrangement, when left to this ministry, is appropriate. It's not! Because this is where the development stopped. Development has not only taken place in these areas, but also in other areas. Once again, please look at the Internet, where data on the development of electronic communications, accessibility and speed are the criteria for each country. These comparisons also exist on the websites of the European Union and will not need to be searched for. You'll see how terrible we've gone back in just three years. Three years ago, we set an example for virtually all post-socialist countries. Today, many countries, even Slovakia, which is much lower in development, are already far ahead of us. This is a loss of potential, no one will be able to return it, Madam Minister. None of these numbers you've been quoting mean anything to me. Otherwise, we can say that it doesn't matter which ministry does it, but the simple fact is that one ministry in the past has done it well, another ministry is doing it wrong today. All that has caused is a whole lot of court proceedings, administrative complaints and everything else, which we are facing and which, by the way, is costing us again, Madam Minister. For this reason, this proposal is justified and justified and solid in terms of the development of Slovenia, even necessary to transfer electronic communications to where they have already been, where they have developed well and where we estimate they belong. This is for the Ministry of Economy and Development, because this ministry needs electronic communications, these electronic communications, which should be in the function of knowledge, science and entrepreneurship. If you want, I'll say that mainly entrepreneurship. What you seem to have forgotten in your reign is what you regret. It's not just development or, if you want, ruling by rewarding certain groups, you've been successful at it. Those you have chosen as your political potential have been rewarded with "zero". No one can cut your knees on this. But the problem is, you've forgotten your development. The development framework for small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, which would allow for further development of the whole of Slovenia and in which electronic communications are vital, I say again, practically for all, but for some aspects of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship are absolutely necessary. And if you have excluded one part of Slovenia from these procedures – and you have done so at this Ministry, which is now competent – you have objectively condemned those parts of Slovenia, the White Landscape, which is already affected now, North Primorsko, North Koroska and so on, to a slower development. Maybe even a stagnation and a setback. Against this, Madam Minister, consider this my debate. In order to correct what can be done, we are proposing a solution that has already proven to be good in the past to transfer this to the Ministry of the Economy. This is why we personally and the entire SDS Group are proposing and unitedly supporting this law.
ParlaMint-SI_2011-04-21-SDZ5-Redna-27.ana.u178	All the advertised debaters you wanted got the word. Since the time set for the debate has not yet expired, I ask whether anyone else wishes to discuss the Rules of Procedure of the Assembly on the basis of Rule 71 of the Rules of Procedure. Not [[...]] [[advertising from the hall]] I'm asking if he wants another one, please, who wants to discuss it: yes or no. Nothing else [[No, no, ……]] I'm closing the debate. On the proposal to conclude that the proposal for a law is suitable for further consideration, we will, in accordance with the timing of the meeting, decide on Tuesday, 3 May 2011, in the framework of the votes. This concludes this agenda item. I hereby adjourn the 27th meeting of the National Assembly, to be resumed on Tuesday, 3 May 2011, at 9 a.m. The National Assembly will begin its 42nd extraordinary session in two hours, which is at 7:20. In 10 minutes, a meeting of the Committee on Labour, Family, Social Affairs and Disabled Persons will begin in the Grand Chamber of Tomšič in 10 minutes. The Committee on Culture, Education, Sport and Youth will also start the meeting in 10 minutes, which will be held in room 212 in Šubičeva. Thank you.
