ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e26	The called alternates, for Rogaland County Terje Halleland and for Vestfold County Heidi Ørnlo, have taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e40	The representative, Mr Bård Hoksrud, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e43	On behalf of the representatives of Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Inbjørg Vokskesen, Arne Sortevik, Harald T. Nesvik and myself, I have been pleased to present a proposal for a representative on an action plan for enhanced oil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e48	Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e51	On behalf of the representative Borghild Tenden and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a representative to set up a registration system for lobbying in Stortinget, in the departments and in the Prime Minister's office.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e56	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e74	The health queues have increased by approx. 60,000 patients under the Stoltenberg government, and 262,671 are now waiting for health care. The waiting time for treatment increases, and for some patient groups it has increased significantly, including for addicts, who now wait 12 days longer, and for the group ‘indeterminate’, who wait 19 days longer. During the right-hand government, both the health queue and the waiting times for treatment were significantly reduced. In an article in Today’s Business on January 7, 2006, Jens Stoltenberg wrote that it was about 270,000 in a health queue in 2001. Thus, the number of waiting people was reduced by at least 70 000 up to the 1st tertiary in 2006. An important reason why the health queue and waiting time were reduced in the right-wing years of government was our policy of providing more patients with the opportunity for treatment at private clinics at the state’s expense. This is demonstrated, inter alia, by: of the SINTEF Health Report on Specialist Health in 2006, which reads as follows: ‘All health regions have experienced a relatively clear decline in the rates of waiting patients and waiting time for patients on waiting lists during the period 2002–04, while private commercial hospital consumption has increased relatively significantly. Given that the private commercial activity is primarily related to elective surgery, there is reason to believe that parts of the decrease in waiting and waiting time are the result of the use of private operators.» When the waiting lists have grown and the waiting time has increased under the red-green government despite the growth in the appropriations for the specialist health service, this is due in particular to: one of the policy reasons has chosen to reduce the use of private healthcare and to limit the patient’s right to choose. The Soria Moria I Declaration stated: «The Government will need to limit the scope of agreements between regional health establishments and private commercial hospitals. [[...]] Free capacity in public hospitals shall be used. Agreements between health undertakings and private commercial hospitals shall not have an extent that undermines the patient base of the small local hospitals.’;» There is not a single word about the patient's rights and the need to continue to reduce waiting times and waiting lists. When we have an organisation of our health services where the goat fits the oatmeal – namely, that those who order private hospital services on behalf of the patient are the same as both paying the bill and owning the public hospitals – it is understandable that the regional health companies have seized the wording of the Soria Moria declaration with enthusiasm. The waiting time for mental health protection for children and adolescents is on average two and a half months, or 76 days, and 28 pst. may not be dealt with within the three-month period. In 2006, the right asked that the current Minister of Health, Brustad, should identify the possibility of faster treatment through the use of private operators with free capacity. This has not been followed up. Aleris Private Hospital is only allowed to treat time-limit patients. They may not agree to treat patients until the deadline has expired. In Stockholm, the same company operates the entire mental health service on behalf of the public, and has succeeded in reducing queues and waiting times. One working three-child mother had problems with a shoulder and was told in the summer of 2008 that she had to operate. The waiting time was seven months. In the meantime, she had to get sick – she had a lot of pain and problems with her daily tasks. The lady herself found out that she could be treated at a private clinic, the Ringvollklinik in Askim. However, they were not allowed to treat several patients on behalf of the state that year. The patient could no longer wait for the public treatment offer and paid the operation himself, without exploiting the capacity of public activities, as stated in the Government Declaration. Public purchases of premises in private rehabilitation institutions have decreased by 53,700 treatment days between 2005 and 2006. There was a slight increase in the period 2006–2007, but not large enough to compensate for the decrease in the previous year. At the same time, the capacity of public hospitals increased. However, the challenge is that many patients do not need the highly specialised hospital rehabilitation. They need the multi-disciplinary, comprehensive and long-term offer made by the training institutions. This applies, for example: women with muscle and skeletal disorders who have experienced increased waiting time for treatment at Jeløya Kurbad after Health South-East reduced the purchase of places there in 2006, despite the fact that the patient association, the MS association, pointed out that their members preferred Jeløya Kurbad to a fraction of the cost of hospitalisation. A doctoral thesis on the topic shows that patients are more satisfied with the rehabilitation offer given in the training institutions than with that given in the hospitals. As a result of changes in the treatment of heart disease, fewer patients are treated with open heart surgery. Despite the fact that the National Association of Cardiovascular Hospitals, the Feiring Clinic, is the most satisfied offer for patients, and which has the highest quality indicator score, it is this offer that needs to take the greatest reductions in the number of operations. Public hospitals and regional health establishments are primarily responsible for filling up their own capacity and want to push the Feiring Clinic out of this offer. Liv Marit Tangen from Hurdal has debilitating heart fibrillation and is partially ill-reported. She has been removed from the hospital waiting list because the waiting time is too long. The celebration clinic in the neighbouring municipality would like to treat her, but it has been strictly told by Health South-East that it is not desirable for the clinic to establish this offer, even if they pick up doctors from among others. Germany and don't take any doctors from the public hospitals. This development does not only lead to longer queues and waiting time. It also leads to a classed health care system. The private offerings have not been lost as a result of the government’s policy – they have only been offered to those who have the money to pay out of the public health queue or to those who have private health insurance. There has been an explosive trend in the purchase of private health insurance under the red-green government. From 2006 to 2008, it grew from 42 000 private health insurance to close to 100 000 – or 97 000 to be completely accurate. That's an increase of 132 pst. in two years. In the right, it shows that the red-green health policy leads to increased class distinctions between those who can afford to buy out of the queue and those who do not. This has also led to a greater targeting of private health services for simpler conditions and cosmetic interventions. They thus use their competence on unpriority groups, rather than reducing the waiting time for the patient groups that are prioritised through the public health system. The question of having a private offer in the healthcare system is not just about waiting times and waiting lists. There is also a question of quality and diversity. Former Minister of Health Bjarne Håkon Hanssen gave reasons for a more positive view that there was a need for competition in order to arrive at price differences. I believe that there is an even greater need for competition to produce the differences in quality and ways of working to create a diversity of services for patients, which actually need other services than the one-sided public services. The aim of this interpellation is to clarify whether it is actually such that the Government has abandoned this policy that has led to increased queues. In the election campaign there was no sign of this, but the retired health minister meant something else after the election. In editorial EN on 8 October this year he was confronted with the growing health cows. Then he said, ‘That is why I am also very pleased that in the government platform that became public yesterday, we are taking some very clear new policy initiatives to overcome the waiting time. That is why I have been a very active driver for new formulations, such as more flexible use of private hospitals." Can the new Minister of Health confirm that she will implement this change in course, and how can this be done specifically to regional health businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e138	The government's objective is to ensure that public health services are of high quality and that the population is guaranteed equal access to healthcare irrespective of where they live and regardless of income. This government has significantly strengthened the budget of hospitals. Since we joined in 2005, we have allocated more resources for patient treatment. With next year’s proposal for an increase of DKr 1.45 billion, patient treatment allocation has actually increased by DKr 8.3 billion from 2005 to 2010. In addition, SEK 4.9 billion is added to increased pension income. Never before have several patients been treated in Norwegian hospitals. Approximately 100,000 more patients were treated in 2008 compared with 2005. The government believes that the public should be the pillars of health care. It is a fact that public hospitals have far more complex and demanding tasks than private hospitals do. An example of this is immediate help, where public hospitals are essentially responsible. Immediate help patients account for about two thirds of all patients treated in Norwegian hospitals. At the same time, private hospitals are an important complement to public hospitals. It is the regional health enterprises that are to ensure that the needs of the population for specialist health services are met. Regional health establishments take care of their responsibilities through their own health establishments and by concluding agreements with private providers. The political control of regional health enterprises is carried out through the business meetings and the mission document, as well as the representative Höie is well known. The practice is that private service providers must have an agreement with the public in order to trigger reimbursement, and we stress the need to comply with the tendering rules. There are private actors in very many medical areas, and the number and size vary from field to field. For example, there is a significant extent of private actors in X-ray and laboratory services and in training and drug treatment. But I would like to stress that there is only a limited amount of private commercial hospitals. The use of private hospitals declined slightly from 2005 to 2007. During the same period, the activity growth in public hospitals was greater than the reduction in the use of private hospitals. From 2007 to 2009, there was an increase in private use. In 2008, such stays amounted to about 2.5 pst. of all hospital stays in Norway, according to the Norwegian patient register. Converted into numbers, this is about 36 000 stays. Some of the increase may be linked to patients who have received help through the ‘Retreaters’ scheme, but this does not explain the whole increase. In the second quarter of 2009, the waiting time for specialist healthcare treatment was 73 days on average. But about 75 pst. of those awaiting treatment have started before such a long time has elapsed. However, we look seriously at the increasing waiting times and the fact that some patients have to wait so long for treatment. I can assure you that the patients who need it the most get treatment first. If we look at what patients are actually in line for, it turns out that the entire 80–85 pst. waiting for an out-of-patient investigation in the specialist healthcare service. Increased private use for multiple operations will therefore not solve the waiting list problem alone. The waiting lists say a great deal about outpatient activities in the specialist health service. Many patients have been granted their right to health care when entering an outpatient consultation. The government is dedicated to reducing waiting times and is working on finding effective measures. I expect regional health companies to also put pressure on this work. As the representative Höie is familiar with, the new government platform emphasises the need for regional health businesses to put in place measures to reduce waiting times for diagnosis and treatment. Using private actors may be one of the measures in question if it helps to reduce waiting times and provide patients with more rapid treatment. Questions have been asked about the appropriateness of today’s waiting list targets for managing and planning the specialist health service. As it goes from Prop. 1 S for 2009-2010, the Ministry wishes to review today’s waiting list targets and assess the need to change them. The government is committed to providing the best possible healthcare for the population. Our policy is based on Community solutions. We therefore also emphasise in the new government platform that we should have a strong public health system and with private actors as useful partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e171	I must admit that I thought you would get an answer from the Minister of Health that was more positive than this. It confirms my suspicion that the former Minister of Health had a more positive view of the use of private health services – for which he has not been included in the government statement. It also confirms what has been our feedback, that all three main limitations, the ideological constraints, for the use of private health services that were in Soria Moria I, have in fact been passed on in the Soria Moria II declaration. This means that there is a clearly ideological distinction between the Government and the opposition in a central area as to how to get shorter waiting times, shorter waiting lists, in our healthcare system, and not least how to ensure a diverse offer to patients. In Soria Moria II, the following wording is used: ‘The government will ensure good conditions for hospitals owned and operated by non-governmental organisations [[...]] It makes me very concerned about the large proportion of health institutions that are owned and operated by non-hospital non-governmental organisations, but which, among other things, are. are training institutions. These are the ones that have the big challenges today. The Minister of Health also said that those who need it most quickly get treatment. I deeply disagree with that. Those who need it the most are those who have experienced the highest increase in waiting time, among others. those addicts who are now waiting 12 days longer. They're the ones who need it the most. At the same time, regional health businesses are now being seen tightening up. Competitive voluntary non-profit-making offers that should have had long-term foreseeable contracts are put out to competition; they can only offer on the spot market and they also experience a pressure to reduce the duration of treatment. Among other things, Health South-East has suggested that the private drug institutions involved in multidisciplinary treatment should have a severe reduction in the treatment period for drug users in order to increase the flow, as it is called. It is true that Rusreform II and Stortinget’s intentions that multidisciplinary treatment for drug users should be a treatment offer that is not only a specialised health care but also a rehabilitation where you learn to get back to life and not just become drug-free. This is contrary to the Russian reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e193	Before the State Council Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen gets the floor for a three-minute post, I would like to inform you that the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e199	There should be no doubt that this government aims to reduce the waiting time when people are going to treatment – to reduce the waiting time in the whole country, so that people can get faster treatment and better services. From the representative, Höie's side, there were many things that came up. When we're concerned with good public health, it's just because it's going to be access for everyone. It's not that we don't recognise private businesses – we do. They are clearly an important complement to public health. When building a health care system that is good, predictable and that applies to everyone, it is important that it is based on the responsibility of a public health system. I want to comment on some of the numbers, because it's clear it's worrying when the waiting time for treatment increases. That's something we're going to have to pay a lot of attention to. But 80-85 pst. Of the 62 000 now waiting queues, outpatient treatment is awaited. This is why it has provided for greater flexibility in the funding system, so that hopefully we will soon bring down this queue and improve treatment provision for more people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e208	For us red-green, balancing health differences is a main concern of health policy. Everyone shall have an equivalent provision of health care. The health differences in Norway are greater than we can accept. The health differences, which apply throughout the country, affect, among other things. level of education, occupational groups, income, health and long-term living. Most causes of death are also socially biased. Many relationships contribute to the creation of social health differences. Preventive health work must be given, and should be given, much greater priority. The proximity of health services is important, and public health services need to be strengthened, not weakened, because Community solutions are the best care for all. The waiting times for diagnosis and treatment must be reduced – the Council of State also stresses that it expects regional health businesses to take action in this way. The use of private individuals may be among the most appropriate measures considered by the Council of State. But as Bent Höie has brought, and as the Right-Man Bent Höie doesn't like, we're imposing restrictions to ensure that we don't undermine the public offer, where the smaller hospitals are particularly sensitive to the failure of the patient base. I would say that it must be resource-disposaling not primarily to use available capacity in public hospitals. It is therefore also necessary to limit the scope of agreements between health businesses and commercial hospitals. Limitation is about finding the right balance between the different considerations to be taken into account and considering an equivalent offer for all is the most important. After all, public spending billions a year on various private actors and will continue to do so in the future – 35 billion is actually about. And that's absolutely necessary. They have an important function in addition to the public offer. Not least, they do a lot of good work, but we can't let people decide for themselves whether they want to use a private hospital or a public hospital, and therefore public health funds, without the healthcare companies being in control of the scale. Is that really how Right wants it? Bent Höie said that the belly was set to fit the oat sack. I'll say it like this: it's a good bow. Yeah, that's actually the horse we choose to bet on, because it ensures everyone. We have to remember that we are responsible for ensuring an equivalent provision of healthcare throughout the country. It's also an important dimension. District Norway will obviously lose weight on the basis of public health services. We find the private hospitals and clinics mainly where the population base and income possibilities are greatest. It is good that Bent Höie is busy reducing the waiting time. We agree on that. But I allow myself to express a never so small suspicion that the Right is not only concerned with bringing down the waiting times, but that these, like in other areas of society, are looking at increasing access for private providers as a political goal in themselves. To put it another way: I think the Right would fight because more health tasks had to be solved by private, sail if there were hardly any waiting lists. Or am I wrong? As a social democrat, I am deeply concerned about the freedom of people, but I am well aware that the individual's freedom should not be at the expense of the freedom and security of others. We want smaller differences between people, not larger. For us, it's not a political goal to turn more of the health care system into a store, to say it like that. There is certainly no objective to contribute to the ending of precious health crowns as profit. That is also why we are trying to distinguish hospitals owned by NPISHs from commercial actors, while saying that some of the commercial actors are less commercial than others. The red-green government has significantly strengthened the economy of specialist healthcare and patient care. Nevertheless, we are facing major challenges. We're going to use every day to improve health care. For example, we believe that the interaction between hospitals needs to improve. We need to get the most efficient management of and better overview of the waiting lists. I think it is also important for the patient to receive better guidance on treatment options. Maybe the difference between the right-hand side and us is just to what extent we accept differences between people. So I actually agree with Bent Höie that there is an ideological distinction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e223	It's a very timely debate the interpellant here is going, commendably enough. In many ways, I get the impression that red-green politicians have a kind of allergy to everything that's private. Unfortunately, I am left with the impression – even after the answers we have received here today – that this is correct, despite the fact that private and non-profit actors have been very important in Norwegian health care for a long time, both in terms of patient treatment, trials, development and research. Where would people have been in the rehabilitation field without the efforts of private and non-profit institutions and, in particular, the efforts of individuals over a hundred years? What would care have been without contributions from private and non-profit institutions, such as drug users? The Minnesota model, the Alpha Foundation, etc., and what had the heart surgery in Norway been without the competence of the Celebrating Clinic and not least the capacity contribution over many years? Another paradox for me is, of course, that waiting times and waiting lists have increased radically during the red-green government period, both within somatic areas, care and rehabilitation – while the free capacity of private and non-profit stands unused throughout the country every single day. This is an unsocial and unfortunate policy, which primarily affects patients with the least resources. It brings me to another aspect: that LO and other parts of the trade union movement and the red-green politicians spent a lot of resources and a long speaking time in the election campaign talking nonsense about the health policy of the Progress Party. It was claimed that we wanted American conditions in the Norwegian health system. It's untrue and was used as a terror propaganda to the voters. It should be allowed to engage hard in election campaigns, but I had not expected direct falsehood. The promotion party wants to equalise private and public institutions, hospitals and other health services. However, the funding shall be made above the tax return, as is currently done. In order to make it as clear as possible: the Progress Party will provide public funding for health and care services for all, irrespective of income, place of residence, sex and age. If the red-green and professional movements have still not brought it along, then there is every reason to believe that there is a deliberate strategy to talk falsely about the health policy of the Progress Party. Let me ask the following questions to the red-green politicians in general and perhaps the health minister in particular, who is talking about communities and spice layers: what is preventing the resource-intensive people from buying out of the red-green health queue today? What is it that prevents a millionaire from buying an operation at a private hospital during the day? What is it that prevents a resourceful mother or father from buying a drug institution place for his son or daughter in the daytime? The answer, of course, is nothing. Thus, in today's red-green social democracy, it is fully possible to buy better health services or care services and thus go ahead in line. The Progress Party wants everyone to have a rapid and good health and care service in Norway. Individuals must be able to choose between private, non-profit or public institutions, hospitals or rehabilitation. This is about bringing down health cows and waiting times. It's about 250,000 people not having to stand in red-green queues. It is about 4 500 drug users getting help in time. It's about betting on rehabilitation for everyone who needs it. It's about human dignity, it's about health, and it's about the security of individuals. In addition, it is good policy and a good social economy. It costs society an incredible amount of money to have patients go on sick pay and that more and more people get dissatisfied.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e238	Let it be clear that the Right will have a strong public health service of high quality. We want equal access to healthcare across the country, regardless of the economy, even though the representative Hagebaken is trying to make it in a different way. I hear the Health Minister says that you are positive about using private hospitals, but in action, the opposite happens. I had actually believed – with the long health queues and the increased waiting times we have – that the signals had been more positive. It is, as the representative Höie had in mind, 262,000 people in health queues, and it is 60,000 more than it was in the first quarter of 2006. At the same time, there are several free beds in the private hospitals and clinics. In this way, it should be a curative matter to ensure that patients come out of health cows and for treatment in the available private offers – and this is, of course, to be paid by the public. The main issue of the government in this case is obviously not to provide the patient with faster health care. The main objective is to protect the public health monopoly and to combat private hospitals. In the online newspaper on 12 July 2007, Director Aarseth of the Health Directorate said that the reduction in cooperation with private clinics is the main cause of increased health cows and waiting times. But this is not primarily about waiting list statistics and activity figures. This is about patients who need treatment for their health problems. It's about a working three-child mother who had to pay her own shoulder operation because she couldn't wait seven months for an operation in a public hospital. Seven months is a long time for a working mother who must be fully married, both at work and at home. This is about the technician who was diagnosed with gallstones and was suggested a minimum of three months waiting time for surgery. He used himself instead of health insurance and was treated at a private clinic in the course of two weeks. It's about a young mother with eating disorders who had to get help from the family to pay for treatment at a private clinic. Everyone's working on rapid health care. All parties aim to ensure that patients receive prompt treatment. First of all, it is good for patients and their families, who are spared unnecessary suffering and unnecessary problems in everyday life. The employer serves this because they get their employees back to work faster, and society saves social and health care costs. So far, it seems that the red-green government is not concerned about what patients, families, business and society have earned in this matter. They're most concerned that someone, as they say, is making money in health. The right is most concerned about what serves patients. Therefore, we will provide patients with faster treatment in private hospitals and clinics on public account. It is the policy of the red-green government that leads to the privatisation of health services and a classed healthcare service, where only those who have good finances can buy themselves out of line. The others have to stand at the back. The warm community that the red-greens talk about, and that they promised, has become a union. It's a community that patients could probably be apart. Of course, this doesn't like the red-greens to hear. They've had a majority for four years, they still have a majority, and it should have been possible to do something. In conclusion, I must say that I am not impressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e255	If we are to achieve the objective of providing an equivalent level of health to the population regardless of their place of residence and regardless of the size of the wallet, we need to have a well-developed public health system, both in the primary health service and in the specialist health service. Just by having it, just by focusing on it as an important clue in the years to come, we will be able to achieve the goal of a well-developed public health system. We've come a long way there today. We also spend money on private health services. The public buys the private in size – if I don't take a lot of mistakes – 2 billion a year, within the drug field and within the specialist health service, where waiting lists are too high, and where you have to do it to reduce waiting lists. Health businesses are the ones that manage this to a large extent and see where the need is greatest. This is how it works today. But then it comes to the question here that you want more use of the private thing. Then I ask the question: is it also applicable in those areas where the public does not have waiting lists? Is that guidance to be applied as a general order? I was visiting UNN, the University Hospital in North Norway, last week, where they could tell me that they are now far on the road with control and even don't have waiting lists for heart operations. This applies to most regional hospitals, whether I'm properly informed. They could tell that in order to be required to increase the use of private services — for example: by the Feiring Clinic – a dual capacity would be built up, and this would undermine the strict priorities they had to make. There is reason to ask questions about the health policy that the questioner here and the bourgeois parties are looking for, that we should build a private health service in parallel with the public – building up double capacity. That is what can be achieved if we follow the policy of increasing private use. The money to finance this, you have to take off the public, you have to take them from the hospitals and put them into the private, and that's how you undermine the public. That's the difficult priority you have to do in order to have a health care system across the country, in order to have a decentralised healthcare system and to provide an equivalent offer. That's why we see the question, the appeal in the question, so that you want to build up double capacity where we have enough. The example of heart operations is such an example. We are going against this, and I fully support the answer given to the questioner by the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e268	I would first like to thank Bent Höie, who is addressing an important topic. I agree that it is very important to reduce waiting times for priority health care groups. But I think it's a derailment to make this just a matter of increasing treatment capacity by using more private hospitals. According to the opinion of the Center Party, the solution is primarily to prevent better, so that the patient’s flow is reduced. A stronger prioritisation of prevention and community health services is the most important in the long term in order to reduce pressure and reduce the need for distribution and treatment in the specialist services. Another important part of this debate on waiting times is medical developments, which are going very fast. We are faced with difficult ethical issues related to treatment modalities for each resource use to be inserted. At all times, there must be a balance between what kind of services and treatments should be the responsibility of the public and what kind of services and treatments should not be. In the government platform of the red-green government, it says that to ensure a good health supply for everyone, we need a strong public health service where hospitals in the main are eight and run by the public, with private businesses and contract specialists as useful partners. Hospitals which are eight and run by voluntary organisations shall ensure good conditions through agreements with the public. The Government Platform further states that the free capacity of public hospitals should be used. Agreements between healthcare providers and private commercial hospitals shall not have an extent that undermines the patient base of the small hospitals. The health wording of the government platform is entirely in line with the program formulations of the Center Party. In the election campaign, I visited several local hospitals in Hordaland, among others. in Odda and at Voss. The messages were ready, and they go straight home in this debate. Why does Right think that we should increase the private hospital supply when we have public hospitals that have free capacity and that ask for more tasks? The centre party believes that one must first use the capacity of the public before considering increasing the supply of private health services, and suggests that regional and local health businesses, which are to take action to reduce waiting times, also give priority to this principle. Finally, in this debate, I will mention what is happening to the health services in Scotland. The Scottish Parliament took over the government of National Health Service Scotland in 1999. They have since broken the privatisation trend and the use of market mechanisms to deliver an effective public health system. The competition release is in the process of disappearing completely. There is currently little research that can say for sure if the changes in the bulkheads give a better and cheaper health care, but people have noticed that waiting times have fallen. I think this is interesting, and it shows that investing in a strong, public health system can be a good way to reduce the waiting times in the healthcare system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e284	Last week, it became clear that another private health care institution, this time rehabilitation, has to go down as a result of legislation that is not for the benefit of patients but for the benefit of lawyers. Bjørnang Rehabilitation Centre in Forest in Nord-Trøndelag made a marginal formal mistake according to the law on public acquisitions and thus did not compete for a renewed operating agreement with Health Mid-Norway to train patients after an accident or illness. 30 employees lose their jobs, and 36 years of experience and competence are lost. I don't see any sign of a more flexible use of non-profit institutions here. I would like to thank the interpellant for producing so clearly the double message that the Government stands for in its government statement in the case of private hospitals – and for the part of institutions other than hospitals. We have a public health system that is a broad political consensus that we should have. It is not necessary to view private hospitals as a threat, as we feel you are doing today. Rather, they should be seen as a resource. They can supplement public hospitals and they can correct public hospitals. Yes, they are more than sporadic useful partners. In a system where the public plays the leading role, it has to be clear what kind of role private has to play. With the unclear control of the red-green government, this is not clear. In a system where regional health establishments are both placed as orderlers and performers, the use of private individuals cannot be entirely up to them, or for the part with a large room for interpretation of the control signals. Private hospitals and institutions are not required to play the main role in the Norwegian healthcare system, but they must be more than statisticians. They also need predictability of operations and investments. As we have heard, the use of private money has fluctuated in recent years. It must be demanding – and we know it is demanding – not to know its role. I could have listed a number of institutions that have been lost in recent years, both in the fields of drugs, mental health and rehabilitation. After four years of red-green rule, we clearly see the effects of unclear political governance. It is not a political will to value — in practice — the private and ideal hospitals and institutions. The Christian People's Party is particularly concerned with the ideal institutions. We are particularly critical of the use of tenders in the specialist health service. Tenders are used for which groups of operators are defined out of competition. Example is that Health West exempted LAR treatment from its tenders. This was not about using available capacity in the Health West, but about building up their own treatment facilities and thus defining several private institutions that had operated LAR treatment for many, many years. At the latest in the election campaign, we witnessed that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen promised money to build a new Rusakutt in Bergen. It's to be built next year. At the same time, there is an entire department available at the Bergen Clinics, just for this purpose. Yes, there is even public funds that have invested this. This primarily affects patients in line. The Christian People's Party has proposed to review the tendering rules for the provision of health, care and child protection services. In a letter from the Minister of Renewal and Administration dated 28 May 2008, she stated that this should be investigated and that she would return to the Stortingen with this investigation. It's been said in many other contexts. My question to the Council of State is: When will this investigation be submitted to the Stortinget? It is quite incredible to me that it did not come in the previous growing period, as it was suggested. Regarding the representative from SV, I want to answer the following: It is clear that the question was whether we should build up the private ones. I would say that we are going to keep institutions – the ideals – that have in fact been in many cases the ones that have started up and taken care of the very sickest, for example. the spaces in this country. Those are the ones that are now being hit. And of course, in line with that, it's about freedom of choice for patients, which is also very important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e305	Today’s debate on the balance between public and private health services in Norway shows the importance of health policy visions. The Workers' Party will choose organisational solutions that support our health care objectives, today and in the future. An equivalent health service provision for all citizens does not come about by itself. We know there are social inequalities in the distribution of good health and good living conditions. The basic benefits that we want to provide for all citizens are therefore equal opportunities for good health care and good years of life. In order to do this, policy cannot abdicate. Policies need to be sufficiently close to healthcare, even if the field is politically demanding. It is through sufficient political proximity that we get sufficient transparency of services and can correct prices when necessary. We know that the priority challenges in the sector are getting bigger and more difficult in the coming years. This will require political leadership in particular to combat social inequalities in health. Modern health services are difficult to manage in all countries, including because of the tearing of knowledge. In 1945, Alexander Fleming received the Nobel Prize in Medicine for the Discovery of Penicillin. This year, this prize goes to researchers who have found out how small molecules protect the mutagen in the cells. Today we can buy a penicillin tablet in the nearest pharmacy for 2 kroner. At the same time, new and advanced treatment is often very expensive and can challenge our solidarity in the years to come — especially in the recruitment of health professionals. Good organisational solutions are then important. The Labour Party wants to use a wide range of healthcare service providers when such choices support the vision of equivalent services and good years of life for the whole population — today and in the future. That is why Norwegian healthcare today is both public and private. Publicly organised services dominate in emergency medicine and advanced specialist health services, while private decision-makers dominate in the first-line service. More than nine out of ten permanent doctors are self-employed. The decision-makers hold 13 million consultations each year. In comparison, there were up to 4 million visits to somatic outpatient clinics in the same period. In this debate and through the election campaign that we have behind us, it has been said several times by the opposition that the Workers' Party is allergic to private solutions. Allergy works so that by being exposed to a speck of a substance you can get very severe symptoms and get very sick. I cannot recognise the image used in the Health Policy of the Workers' Party. We have a health system where 93 pst. by their decision-makers are private traders. This does not coincide with the fact that we were going to be very bad about being exposed to a bunch of fast doctors. On the contrary, we have to say that the prescribers are the main portion of the diet in everyday medicine. We presented this to the voters through the election campaign. This is our main approach to a system, so we're going to be able to spread good and equivalent healthcare to the whole population.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e322	I want to take this opportunity to address a problem similar to that of the interpellation, namely the fact that we also have many private providers in the care of drug users, and the fact that, despite the fact that there are more than 4,000 drug users waiting for treatment, a number of treatment sites have disappeared. In any case, it will be absolutely essential to put in place good and complete post-protection in the direction of the municipalities and in cooperation and understanding with the individual. Today's after protection is very defective or totally absent. This has resulted in many having received a treatment offer, up to several times. Had even the after-protection functioned, the queue of the treatment strenuous might have been somewhat shorter. At the same time, it is a fact that too many good treatment sites have been lost during this government. Drug users are different. They have different reasons for having ended up in their abuse. They have different challenges and additional diagnostics, and they abuse different types of drugs. In addition, some have a small number of years of abuse, while others have struggled with their abuse for an incredible number of years. This means that if we are to provide a good treatment system, we also need a variety of services — a diversity that allows individuals to be given the most optimal range of services. We have this diversity today, but we also know that we have lost good offers. For me, for the Progress Party, for the drug addicts in line and for their relatives, it is simply unacceptable that we with open eyes sit and watch that good places disappear, just because these places are run by private people, just because the government has a belief that public care should be so much better. Some time ago, the committee received a copy of a letter from a mother. The letter was sent to the then State Council. She told me about her fight to get help for her daughter in almost 21 years, who goes on, among other things. Heroin. Despite her young age, her mother has been fighting the system for six years. After multiple overdoses, a treatment site is sought in May. In July she is told that she will receive a treatment site in February or March 2010, i.e. ten months waiting time. The mother writes in her letter: ‘Her arms and legs are full of squirts, she is hooves and she has bullets and her veins have collapsed. She's used up her necks and the blizzards. She's manic and in abstinence. She can't take in food or liquid and her body gets no rest." Further: "I felt powerless, helpless and angry. I had now tried all the ways you politicians say we should go, I had tried the whole system and I put as helpless as before." Many beautiful words about strengthening the care system have been given. The party's question to the State Council is therefore: Will the State Council use the available capacity and knowledge, irrespective of who operates the offer? Will the Council of State use its influence and position in such a way that the girl and her mother and others in the same situation may not wait ten months for a treatment offer in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e347	I noticed that the representative Health in beautiful order described how to develop a good health care system in Norway, through ‘political proximity’, as it was said. Now I think maybe most patients want something more than political proximity, perhaps the effort of some more professional staff than what we politicians represent. Otherwise, it was not political proximity nor state ownership of a hospital that caused Alexander Fleming to prove penicillin in his time. But then to the Council of State. The government's reason for keeping private hospitals away from patients is that they would otherwise undermine the patient base and, as I understand it, especially for small hospitals. It was further underlined by the Council of State here today. But when 250,000 people are in health queues, there must actually be a lot of people and patients to share. Two speakers, the representatives of Geir-Ketil Hansen and Kjersti Toppe, raised the great dangers of overcapacity. But overcapacity is a much easier problem to tackle than undercapacity, and that's the situation we're up today. It seems that, for the sake of planning health, you have to have a length of the queues that make it easy to plan, while perhaps you start to look at patients more like chocks and as numbers in the statistics. I must also note that, unfortunately, it seems that the state systematically mixes its important role as a health planner and health financier on the one hand, with its less important role as a hospital owner. As a hospital owner, it appears that the state is afraid of getting competition and thus being measured on quality and efficiency every day. The obstacles that have been overcome on a daily basis not only by politicians but also by an obedient bureaucracy in order to allow patients to choose private hospitals are also a consequence of this. Today, free hospital choice is more theory than practice, because it is subsidiary, i.e. the hospital selection only takes place in the event of an established deadline breach. I have a concrete challenge for the State Council of Ström-Erichsen: Could she think of distinguishing the role of the state as a hospital owner from the order function, or at least distinguish more clearly? And the Council of State would imagine that the ordering function was based on hospitals, for example. was ISO certified, and not necessarily that the main feature of their delivery was that they were owned by the State? Isn't it time to be interested in quality and overall capacity to get rid of health cows, for the benefit of those in them? What prevents private hospitals that meet objective quality requirements, a challenge right, which would also lead to the quality and efficiency of state hospitals? Here I want to add that for me it is not essential whether it is a private hospital service provider or a state hospital that wins that competition, only we get all the parameters on the table, meet the requirements and get rid of the health cows. I look forward to the fact that we are going beyond the declaration stage and are taking concrete measures, means that are working and that can reduce and shorten the health cows, and not just bring new words to this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e360	It has been said here from the pulpit that government parties are disappointed, and not least from the Council of State. I'd say I'm a little disappointed in the Right. I understand why the Right rises the problem that the Right does, and continues to hammer on the Government because it has allergy to private, which has become a mantra that goes on again. However, the right also has a tradition of addressing another important debate, namely the debate on health care priorities, between patients and between diseases and also the use of resources between levels, and whether we are using resources right, where people live, close, and preventive, or whether we are putting them too much on, for example. hospital level. I think that this debate had deserved the Right Representatives to focus more on it. If we, for example, It's interesting, of course, to look at the queues. SV is also concerned that we should get rid of cows in the hospital. But we also have to ask ourselves whether that is how the queues go down for the patients who need the most treatment, whether they go down for the patients who like to be thrown into the system, for the chroniclers, whether the quality is getting better, and whether it's acceptable waiting time for those who are waiting in line. So we have to go into the numbers and not just look at the numbers themselves. Then I believe that we are failing our task as elected representatives. Then we're just dealing with a tabloid debate that doesn't provide any answers that we really need in health policy. I also want to remember some of the things that were discussed during the previous government, just linked to the use of private, in particular commercial, actors, who have obviously now been a little forgotten, and as I think it is entirely in their place to come forward again. I think a lot of people here come from counties who have experienced something of the same thing as what we've done in Westfold. We experienced that the public, common hospital, which all the inhabitants of our county would use, was exposed to strong competition from commercial operators who had obtained agreements that were far too extensive in lucrative areas, where they could make a lot of money to specialise in areas aimed at patients who were really not to be given priority in the healthcare system and who could wait longer. It dropped the hospital for resources, money, because of the DRG system and input-driven funding, and it was dropped on the resource page for competence, i.e. for people who were going to do the job. But not enough with that, in addition, it went beyond the whole, so that you couldn't cooperate well enough against, for example. other hospital wards that would be interested in knowing about the diagnosis patients were also interested in them, so that they could treat other parts of the patient because there was perhaps an underlying disease that had to be addressed. I think it's important that we discuss quality to a much greater extent, not just quantity. I would also like to remind you of some of the headlines that we read quite frequently during the previous government, as there was a strong increase in commercial private hospitals: ‘Created sleep party for private people’ was one classic, ‘wage create inequality’ and ‘privatisation makes well-being more expensive’. Scotland, for example, has been brought forward by the Centre Party. It's very interesting to see what's happening in Scotland now. You try to reverse some of this. It is also about ethics, because the more the market is introduced in an area such as health, the more it will affect the very essence of health, which is about ethics, the view of patients, whether they are profitable or unprofitable. It's actually quite tragic when we end up in a situation where health workers are more likely to have to make assessments based on whether patients are profitable for the hospital. I would also like to say that I think it is in place now to draw up a discussion relating to the use of tenders and competition policy in the health sector, in particular in relation to non-profit actors. We've seen it in the ru area. We're looking at it in a lot of other areas. And I wish Right welcome to take a phone call to his own colleagues in the Municipality of Oslo and other municipalities where you sit with power, who use that policy quite rawly. And we, from the government team, should also tackle this and secure long-term contracts that enable us to develop the quality, especially for those groups of patients who today become caste balls, as Kari Kjenaas Kjos described very well. It's a dramatic situation for the patients involved. This also applies to other eating disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e373	This debate shows that red-green politicians have become effective spokespersons for the overpaid directors of regional health companies and hot system champions, but have completely forgotten the individual patient’s wishes and needs and the desire to choose healthcare for themselves. The representative Hagebakken says that the overall objective of the red-green health policy is an equivalent health service for all. If that's the overall goal, then let's go inside and look at what obviously has to be the criteria to achieve that goal. Has e.g. the number of private health services purchased from their own wallet, increased or reduced under the red-green government? The answer is clear: it has increased sharply. Has the number of people buying private health insurance been increased or reduced under the red-green government? The answer is clearly, it's increased by 130 pst. Has the waiting time for all, i.e. those who do not buy themselves out of line, been increased or reduced under the red-green government? The answer is unique: it has session. Then one can look at the priority patient groups, which the representative None Marte Thorkildsen was concerned about, and which I also talked about throughout my post, especially those patients who need multidisciplinary specialised rehabilitation, those who are drug addicts. It is the patient group under the red-green government that has had the greatest increase in waiting time. So now the waiting time has increased by twelve days. So if you're going to evaluate the red-green policy from what the representative Hagebakken says is the overall goal, it's ironing, ironing, ironing on all the criteria. Then it would have been interesting if the red-green politicians were concerned about maybe looking at whether there are other instruments that could lead to this goal. But they're obviously not, because they're effective defenders of a system instead of effective defenders of the patients sitting at the bottom of the table. Because it's not like it's in the areas that one here pulls out from the red-green side, in outpatients, in high-status medicine, in somatics, that the problem that I'm dealing with is the greatest. The problem is greatest for those who need training in training institutions, because they cannot afford to pay for it themselves. The problem is greatest for those in need of interdisciplinary treatment for drug dependence, because they cannot afford to pay for it themselves. And the need is greatest for those who do not have a good enough offer today, for example. those with eating disorders.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e386	There came a real, yes real post from the representative Höie: The government is an effective defender of a system and does not think about the patients. I will refute that strongly. It's clear that when we're concerned that we're going to have a good health offer in our entire long-term country, it's to help patients, not to maintain the system. Let it be perfectly clear, because I also see, of course, that if patients have to wait a long time in a system, it could impair the quality of life, and of course not be good for society either. But it's not an answer to just say that we're going to use all kinds of private businesses that have to be on the market. We need to be in charge of the health sector, and we have established ourselves with regional health companies, which to a large extent have agreements with private individuals as well. It might seem like you don't have it. It's completely wrong -- you have it to a great extent. And I have to say that I am a little surprised when I hear the representative Davøy talking about that we have a double message. It's actually a very short message we have in the government statement – it's a good idea to read why a public health service is important. I think we really share that view that it is important, but we also say that we should have «private enterprises and contract specialists as useful partners». In addition, we say one thing that is also important in connection with the Davøys post: ‘The government will ensure that hospitals are owned and operated by non-governmental organisations through public contracts.’ Some of these ideally driven hospitals have been part of public health throughout all time, and they are still. So for drug treatment, too many have been involved. Clearly, it is something that affects all of us when we hear examples of people being in line for a long time. I just want to emphasize that 60 pst. of all treatment institutions are run by private — to a very large extent non-profit institutions, but by private. And just in the end, let's not doubt that as Minister of Health I'm going to work every day on this problem to bring down the waiting lists and make better offers to the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e402	Then there's case no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-03.ana.ud1890e570	Thus, today's map has been processed. Is anyone asking for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
