ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e22	The representatives Morten Höglund and Sigvald Uppøen Hansen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. A number of permit applications are available: by the representatives of Elisabeth Aspaker, Torgeir Micaelsen, Kenneth Svendsen, Anette Trettebergstuen and Øyvind Vaksdal on leave from 19 October to 13 November, all to attend the 64th General Assembly of the United Nations, second part, in New York. from the representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen on parental leave from 19 October to 29 November. from the representative of Jan-Arild Ellingsen on leave from 20 October to 22 October to attend meetings of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Italy. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Rogaland County, Terje Halleland, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in the Stortinge under the leave of the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen, from 19 October to 25 October, for reasons of well-being. That application is proposed to be examined immediately and to be accepted. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For the Province of Buskerud: Kjell Børre Hansen For Hedmark County: Farahnaz Bahrami For the Nordic counties: Kari Storstrand and Allan Johansen For the Rogaland County: Terje Halleland, Marit Amundsen and Pål Morten Borgli For Troms County: Kent Gudmundsen – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e112	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e115	On behalf of the representative Abid Q. Raja and myself, I would like to make a proposal on the reorganisation and release of Innovation Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e120	The representative, Mr Q. Raja, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e123	On behalf of Trine Skei Grande and myself, I am delighted to promote a proposal for a representative to step up efforts to combat school drop-outs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e128	The representative proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e131	President! I forgot some propositions. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e137	I record that the State Council of Storberget wants to promote further propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e140	I'm sorry, but there were only three kilograms left. propositions, and it is important to present them today. It is no less than the State budget. [[Great cheer in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e145	The President agrees that it may be right for these to be presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e163	One year ago, when I was standing here on this pulpit and presented the last state budget, it was three weeks since the American investment bank Lehman Brothers had left. We were facing the greatest economic crisis since World War II. The world’s financial systems were at risk of collapse. The consequences became dramatic in many countries. Banks have had to stop their business. Companies have gone bankrupt. Many have lost work, housing and savings. Even more would be affected if the authorities had not been able to take effective action against the effects of the crisis. Nevertheless, we have had a very strong setback in the international economy. Norway had a better starting point than many other countries to meet the crisis. We have a business structure that has made us not hit as hard. We have money on a book that enables us to spend money on budgets to keep unemployment down. Health, care and education tasks are jointly addressed in a large public sector. It stabilizes the Norwegian economy and working life. Social security provides us with a good income insurance. And good regulation of the financial sector has provided security for both society, business and individuals. But good assumptions do not exempt us from difficult balances. We've been working on bombs to find the right measures at the right time. Norway’s Bank has reduced the governance rate in several rounds and is now at a historically low level. Measures are in place to ensure liquidity and lending opportunities for banks. And we've spent a lot of money on measures for work, public construction and infrastructure, raising skills, investing in higher education and green migration. The measures adopted by the Storting in the new year were temporary in character. This means that expenditure measures have been substantially reversed in this budget and that the 2010 measures have to be compared with the original budget for 2009 before the exceptional measures. Now we can sum up: after a sharp decline in the Norwegian economy towards the end of last year, developments in 2009 have been better, and we expect growth in the mainland economy of 2pst. in 2010. Labour market developments are significantly better than fear. The employment has remained well up. Unemployment, as measured in the Labour Force Surveys, AKU, has remained stable, at about 3 pst. so far this year. This unemployment rate is 1.25 percentage points lower than the average over the last 20 years, and it is about 6.5 percentage points lower than the level in the United States and the euro area in July this year. No country in Europe has lower unemployment than Norway. We have passed the tests in the financial crisis so far, but there are still major challenges to come. Although many people in Norway have not been hit by the bad times but, on the contrary, improved purchasing power, some sectors are still at risk. This applies primarily to the export industries, and the situation of the yard industry is uncertain due to few new contracting parties and falling order servers. The construction sector has also marked the decline. The crisis is not over. The budget presented today is adapted to the challenges we are still facing. We follow the rule of action for the gradual phase-in of oil and petroleum revenues in the Norwegian economy. Too often, the rule of action is described as preventing the use of oil money. It's not like that. It ensures predictable use of oil money, while saving for those who come after us. The rule shall take account of the economic situation, using less than the expected fund return of 4 pst. when there is high activity and pressure in the economy, and more in recession. And that's exactly what this government has done. We were under 4 pst. in the rise times ahead of the financial crisis, and are now significantly above. Employment is the direction of the budget. Unemployment is wasted on human resources, and we do what we can to prevent unemployment from increasing too much and getting stuck on a high level. The government's 2010 budget proposal involves a structurally oil-corrected budget deficit of DKK 148.5 billion, which is DKK 44.6 billion higher than the expected fund return. As the outlook improves and growth in the Norwegian economy rises, the budget needs to be brought back to the 4-percentile line. In this way, the freedom of action in budgetary policy can be restored, while strengthening the ability to meet the growth of expenditure that will result in more elderly people in the future. The outlook for the Norwegian economy in 2010 is somewhat better than for our trading partners. However, also for Norway, growth in the mainland economy is estimated to be lower than the trend growth, and unemployment is expected to increase slightly from 2009 to 2010. The government has therefore found it appropriate to increase the use of oil also in 2010, corresponding to about 0,5 pst. of the GDP of mainland Norway. However, the expansionary impact on the economy is slightly less than this. The budget is weakened by over NOK 6 billion as a result of lower dividend income on the government's hand. Such reductions in income usually have a weaker expansionary effect than a corresponding increase in expenditure. The actual underlying expenditure growth of the State budget is estimated at about 1,75 p.m. in 2010. This is about 1 percentage point lower than the trend growth in mainland GDP, and also lower than the estimated GDP growth for mainland Norway next year. The financial crisis has hit the world acutely and has forced decisive policy action by the authorities. It is my wish that the crisis caused by climate change will mobilise the same creativity, knowledge and courage. Climate negotiations in Copenhagen will be a test of the level of commitment that the international community is willing to make to address climate problems. The government will actively contribute to the implementation of an ambitious international climate agreement covering as many countries and sectors as possible. The new agreement must be set up in such a way that the objective of limiting anthropogenic temperature increases to 2 degrees from pre-industrial levels can be achieved. The agreement should include measures against deforestation, technology cooperation and adaptation to climate change. Global warming will bring great costs to people both in poor and rich countries. We have a strong interest in reducing greenhouse gas emissions, but it is also important in an international solidarity perspective. It is the poorest countries that are hardest hit by climate change. The Government aims to over-fulfil Norway’s commitment under the Kyoto Agreement. As of 2008, more than 70 pst. of the Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions subject to allowances or charges. Technology for CO2 management will be one of the tools we need to use in the fight against global warming. The Government will contribute to technological development and reduced costs through the realisation of CO2 capture, transport and storage projects. The construction work of the technology centre for the capture of CO2 in Mongstad is under way, and further work is being done on the planning of full-scale CO2 management. We propose to allocate almost SEK 3.5 billion in 2010 for this purpose. There is an increase of approximately DKK 1.6 billion compared to the 2009 budget. For the period 2006-2009, EUR 2.4 billion has been allocated to renewable energy and energy efficiency improvement through Enova. This is four times as much as in the previous ageing period. In addition, during this period Enova has had revenues of SEK 2.9 billion through the application of the network tariff. Energy and energy efficiency improvements continue in the 2010 budget. The renewable energy base and energy efficiency improvement fund is proposed to increase by DKK 5 billion to DKK 25 billion in 2010. We also propose 100 million. kr to a new eco-innovation grant scheme. The tax and tax system shall promote environmentally friendly behaviour. The conversion of car charges in a more environmentally friendly way is continued. This work started on 1 January 2007, and the changes are working. The CO2 emissions of the first registered vehicle have decreased significantly. For several types of cars, the reduction in the one-off fee has been 40 000 and 50 000 kroner. A CO2 tax is introduced on the domestic use of gas for heating purposes in barley from 1 April 2010. The exemption from the car diesel tax for the proportion of biodiesel is halved in 2010, with a view to final phasing out in 2011. Understanding the causes and impacts of climate change and how best to meet the challenges requires knowledge and capacity for innovation. But knowledge is not just a prerequisite for solving the climate challenges. It is also a prerequisite for maintaining and processing the welfare state, ensuring a future business life and further developing democracy and our common values. The Government proposes to increase research and development appropriations by around DKK 1.7 billion from the budget in 2009. This means that publicly funded research and development is estimated to be 0,97 pst. of GDP in 2010. The capital of the Research and Innovation Fund is proposed to be increased by DKK 5 billion. The revised national budget in 2009 provided funds for the creation of 3,000 new places of study. The government proposes a further escalation of some 2,600 study places from the fall of 2010. This allows the recording capacity to continue at the same high level as in 2009. From 2009 onwards, a statutory entitlement to nursery facilities has been introduced. In September this year the county officials reported that the municipalities had offered room for all children with the right to kindergarten. We also increase efforts for the earliest school years. The Government proposes targeted measures to improve the quality of initial training. From the autumn of 2010, the number of hours of instruction is increased by one week divided by the first to seventh stages. Schools decide where to lay it. There is also a proposal for an offer of eight hours of free homework on the SFO for students at the first to fourth stages. During the period, the Government will have in place one hour of free SFO daily for all children in first to fourth grade. We have research reports that indicate that participation in the SFO provides better learning. Therefore, it is also important in a cohesion perspective to give more children access to this playground for play and learning. Early effort shall assist those who are struggling to crack the reading and calculation codes before developing into a problem they are moving further into school. It's important to prevent rejection later. Absence from secondary education increases the risk of unemployment. Unemployment over time and lack of education increases the risk of poverty and exclusion. That's why we have to prevent young people from falling out of school. The government is proposing 53 million. to new measures to improve the level of completion of secondary education. The temporary increase in the grant to apprenticeships in 2009 is also continued in 2010. Today's school students are tomorrow's workers. In particular, we will need more employees in the healthcare sector in the future. We want a population that is healthier and lives longer. But a population composition where there is an increasing proportion of older people demands us very much. We must have a financial backbone to bear increased expenditure on pensions and on high-quality care and health care. The work of preparing us for this has already begun. That's why we're betting on building nursing homes and nursing homes. We are systematically working on recruitment and empowerment in the sector. Municipalities are important to ensure good care and well-being throughout the country. For the four-year period 2006-2009, the total income of the local government sector has actually increased by 3.1 pst. average per year, against an average annual growth of 2 pst. per 1 % years from 2002 to 2005. The real growth in total municipal income from 2008 to 2009 is now estimated at DKK 11.4 billion, or 4 pst. The January package of fiscal policy measures made a significant contribution to municipalities. The municipal economy was further strengthened in the revised national budget in 2009, inter alia. through increased framework transfers. In addition, the revised national budget has provided new information indicating that the tax revenue of the municipal sector this year is DKK 1.2 billion higher than previously assumed. In addition to the projected growth in income, the temporary maintenance grant to the municipalities and county municipalities amounted to NOK 4 billion, which was part of the action package in January. The government's 2010 budget proposal continues to be strong in the municipal sector. The proposal represents a real growth in the total income of the municipal sector of DKK 8 billion. Increased free revenues account for more than half of this. A good welfare country where everyone has rights independent of residence, economy or background is one of the most appreciated by most of us in Norway. The expenditure in the population is the single area of the budget which is increasing most for 2010. The government is committed to maintaining the welfare state as a spice layer, all of which provides the community’s capability. It requires that we have confidence in the tax system and that the most powerful contribute. The government has made some substantial changes to the tax system, without increasing the overall level of taxation from 2004. It has helped to make fiscal policy more visible as a distribution tool. The total tax changes over the period have provided clear reinforcements for the richest, while those with lower incomes have largely benefited from relief or unchanged tax. The wealth tax is the main source of taxes from the wealthiest in society, and it contributes large revenues to the community, worth DKK 12 billion in 2009. Therefore, it is important to maintain wealth as a tax base, but at the same time to make the wealth tax fairer. We have secured a more real and equal valuation of different types of wealth, and we have removed some of the opportunities that the most wealthy had to reduce the wealth tax. The stock discount and the 80 pst rule have been removed, and the asset tax base deduction has so far tripled for single and more than six-fold for married couples. In the 2010 budget, we follow up with proposals for new and more accurate rules to value dwellings. The equation values of the day are set at random and sometimes systematically unfair. It is not acceptable that a block apartment on Mortensrud on the east edge of Oslo should have a higher value for the property tax than a much larger and more attractive apartment on Frogner on the west edge of Oslo. The current equation values are lower for more expensive dwellings than for reasonable dwellings. It can give completely unreasonable results, not least for older people who want to move from a large and impractical dwelling to a more practical and newer nursing home. Since the large old dwelling will often have low equivalency, the newer one will often be close to the maximum limit of 30 pst. of the market value, by selling the old dwelling and moving to a smaller and more practical residential property, an increased taxes on wealth can be achieved. Among other things, I received an enquiry about this from a 70-year-old woman who was in exactly that situation. Both she and others she knew seemed quite impossible to understand why a less nursing home should be taxed harder than a larger and more valuable ordinary dwelling. I agree. Our proposals for conversion will mean that we correct a lot of this injustice. We propose a moderate increase in the equation values, but at the same time we increase the bottom of the equation significantly for all wealth. The proposal does not increase the taxes on wealth of owner-occupied dwellings overall. On the contrary, we propose to lighten the property tax by 760 million. kr. That means that eight out of ten people who pay taxes on wealth today are getting relief. The average equation value as a share of the value in turnover increases from 20 pst. up to 25 pst., an increase primarily due to the lifting of particularly low equivalency values. But the maximum equation value still has to be 30 pst. of the value in turnover. The sum of the changes we're proposing means that a couple without any other wealth can own a debt-free dwelling worth up to 5.6 million. kr without paying taxes on wealth at an equation value of 25 pst. and up to 4.7 million. kr at an equation value of 30 pst. Now I hear that someone from the opposition is out and saying about this proposal before they may have had the opportunity to get into it well. Some claim that this is a city tax. 92 pst. the population of Oslo receives either unchanged or lower taxes through this proposal. It can't be a city tax. I would encourage the opposition to take some time to get involved in this proposal, because that means that a gross injustice, which many have been exposed to over a long time, is corrected. Secondary residence, i.e. an additional non-recreational or commercial dwelling shall be valued at 40 pst. of value in turnover, i.e. at the level of commercial real estate. More and more people are investing their wealth in an extra home, such as: used for rental. Many first-time start-ups get a more expensive access ticket to the housing market because they compete with such investors. There may also be reason to believe that investment in a so-called secondary residence may be at the expense of investment in industrial activities. Thus, equal value of secondary housing and commercial property can have a beneficial effect on the overall resource use of society. We believe that we have found a good compromise between the need for fair distribution and the desire for a moderate tax on the wealth of people's homes. The distribution effects are good. In total, 120 000 fewer people will pay taxes on wealth under this proposal, and there are 760,000 lower taxes on wealth under this proposal. The share of taxpayers who pay taxes on wealth will come down to 17 p.m. in 2010. In 2005 it was 30 pst. by the taxpayers who paid taxes on wealth. We're going to get this because we're going to increase the bottom line for lonely, from NOK 470,000 to NOK 700,000, and for couples to SEK 1.4 million. kr. Four years ago, in 2005, the deduction was NOK 151 000. So here's a significant redistribution for the best for most people. It is a goal of the Government that social and economic differences in society are reduced. Tax policy contributes to redistribution. In addition, the Government proposes an increase in funding of just over DKK 1 billion in 2010 for targeted measures to reduce poverty. The differences in living conditions are evened out, among others: through the increase in the minimum pension and other minimum social security benefits and increased housing support. Proposals for increased expenditure on action against drug abuse and to improve the return of prisoners and sentences to society also help to balance differences. The main task of economic policy over the last year has been to help maintain employment so that unemployment does not increase much in a situation of severe recession in the international economy. Work provides income and participation and is important in the fight against poverty. Safe jobs and increased value creation and development across the country are also central to the 2010 budget. During 2009, grants and loan frameworks under Innovation Norway increased sharply as part of the response to the financial crisis. Also for 2010, the appropriations for Innovation Norway and the loan framework for nationwide innovation loans and the low-risk loan schemes are proposed to be significantly increased. The guarantee framework of the Export Credit Guarantee Institute, GIEK, has also increased sharply in the last year to counter the effects of the financial crisis. We propose to continue the high levels in 2010 for the General System and for the U.S. system. Furthermore, we are proposing to establish a new guarantee scheme for long-term power contracts for power-intensive industries with a framework of DKK 20 billion. In addition, the government proposes a significant increase in labour market measures in 2010, and we also propose to extend the target audience for the long-term unemployment guarantee. The government will facilitate value creation and development throughout the country. It requires good infrastructure. National transport plan 2010–2019 has an overall planning framework for the period of DKK 100 billion higher than the national transport plan 2006–2015. We will phase in the efforts on transport as quickly as possible, but of course within the limits set by a sound financial framework. The 2010 budget represents a significant phase-in already in the first year of the programming period. The government’s proposal involves an increase of 23 p.m. for the State Road Service. and 18,5 pst. for the Railway Station. The growth in the free income of county councils allows for an increase in the appropriations for the new county roads of DKK 1 billion. We are also proposing a new interest compensation scheme for county councils, with an investment framework in 2010 of NOK 2 billion. In order to achieve the objectives of living communities across the country, increased efforts are being made in the field of research and innovation. The agriculture agreement for 2009-2010 represents a framework increase of DKK 1.2 billion compared to the 2009 agreement, of which it is SEK 560 million. net amount proposed as increases in appropriations for the State budget in 2010. The Nordic regions are a foreign policy area, and a part of strategic thinking is to ensure good use of resources, research, industrial development and infrastructure in the north. It provides the basis for development and optimism in our northernmost part of the country. We propose to increase the measures in the northern regions by about 530 million. kr. Children have the right to safety and care. We have a duty to provide for those children who do not have a safe family situation. That is why we are strengthening the appropriations for the protection of state children. We are increasing the appropriations for the municipal operation of crisis centres for those who are subjected to violence in close relations. The government also wants fathers and children to have more time together. Today, dads don't just want to meet their kids, but they want to know them really well. We extend the right to a father's allowance, so that it also includes families where mother has earned the right to parental leave for less than 50 pst. position. That'll give you about. 1500 more fathers are entitled to a spring quota. Culture provides quality of life and experiences. The government is in the process of escalating the cultural promise. Someone may have brought it. The goal is to 1 pst. the expenditure of the State budget shall be used for cultural purposes by 2014. The government is proposing an increase of 812 million. kr for the follow-up to the Cultural Promise. The cultural budget has thus increased by around DKK 2.7 billion, compared with the level in 2005. We propose, among other things: 200 million. SEK to a new VAT compensation scheme for the voluntary sector from 1 January 2010, to be escalated up to DKK 1 billion by 2014. Cultural experiences cannot be measured in money. The same applies to disease safety. A good health service, which we trust, is of great value to society. The Government proposes to increase the appropriations allocated to the operation of health businesses and to facilitate a growth in patient treatment of about 1.3 pst. from 2009 to 2010 and the full introduction of a new distribution of income between regional health establishments, in line with the recommendations of the Magnussen Committee, in such a way that none of the regional health establishments reduces their income. Improvements in the health system are still needed. We need to ensure that different parts of the health sector communicate well and that they interact better. Patients on the way from hospitals to hospitals or to other municipal services must feel sure that they are well taken care of. The interaction reform must therefore be followed up in order to provide patients with a better and more holistic health service. The Russfeld and the care sector are strengthened. The investment grant to nursing homes and nursing homes is increasing. The age limit for self-employment exemptions for self-employed health services 1 is proposed to be increased from 12 to 16 years and an automatic free card scheme is introduced. Crime creates insecurity, and the most important thing we can do to combat crime is prevention. But we also need a well-manned and up-and-coming police force. The 2010 budget proposes to increase the appropriations allocated to police and prosecution authorities by a total of DKK 1.3 billion. The government will continue 460 civilian posts and 104 police posts established during 2009. The new special agreement between the State and the main associations on working time regulations in the police is equivalent to an estimated 230 year-old resource increase. In 2010, it is proposed to record 720 new students at the Police College. This is a doubling of the recording, compared to the recording in 2006. Since 2007, there has been a significant increase in the number of new asylum seekers to Norway. We will therefore spend SEK 1.4 billion more on state reception and host municipality grants to municipalities with asylum reception. This includes 400 million. kr as a result of several lone minor asylum seekers over 15 years of age. The number of care centres for lone minor asylum seekers under the age of 15 is proposed to be increased by 120 places. At the same time, we are strengthening the UDI and the police's work in the field of foreign affairs. Increased expenditure on return and reintegration measures is also proposed. The international crisis has hit many countries hard. In order to help mitigate the negative impact, Norway has made new loans available to the International Monetary Fund. We have also promised bilateral loans to Iceland and Latvia, which are countries in our vicinity that are particularly hard hit. We are particularly concerned about helping Iceland in the difficult situation it is experiencing. Norway has been a driver of early and significant support for Iceland through Nordic cooperation. The Norwegian loan is SEK 480 million. euro. That's about. NOK 4.2 billion of a total Nordic framework of EUR 1.8 billion. We in Norway place great emphasis on the Nordic countries joining forces to support Iceland in this way. Both Norway and Iceland serve to strengthen Nordic cooperation and support Iceland in the context of international cooperation. Last week the Prime Minister sent a letter to his Icelandic colleague confirming the Norwegian loan offer within the Nordic framework. Like the Prime Minister, I am concerned that Norway and the other Nordic countries support the efforts of the Icelandic Government to re-establish the economy and normalize Iceland's relations with the outside world. We continue to closely monitor developments in Iceland. Poor countries too are hit hard by the international crisis. At a time when there has been reason to fear that the rich part of the world has enough with itself and its own problems as a result of the financial crisis, it is an important signal from Norway that we are stepping up aid efforts. Poverty is not random. It is based on biased structures of power, unfair distribution and discrimination. The government’s development policy will challenge it to distort the distribution of power in and between countries and conditions that contribute to injustice. The aid budget is increasing by over DKK 1.2 billion. The aid framework's share of estimated GNI, gross national income, is increasing from 1 pst. in 2009 to 1,09 pst. in 2010. The effects of the financial crisis are international, and good policy instruments against future economic crises must also be developed internationally. There is a broad consensus that excessive risk-taking, strong international infective effects and lack of and, on the one hand, absence of regulation in central individual countries were important causes of the crisis. Banking regulation is clearly moving towards demands for more and better core capital and requirements for the construction of countercyclical capital buffers. Furthermore, there is a broad consensus that systemically important financial institutions must be subject to stricter rules – in particular with regard to risk and the amount of capital – and better supervision, even across borders. In the wake of the financial crisis, there has also been a strong focus on the remuneration and remuneration systems of financial institutions and the activities of credit rating agencies. New rules that can help to avoid strong conflicts of interest and prevent undue risk-taking are now being considered both in the G20 and in the EU. The financial crisis and a sustained pressure, inter alia: from Norway has contributed to a change in policy by most so-called tax havens in the world. Several of these are ready to open up to our tax authorities. During this growing session, the Government expects Norway to establish transparency agreements with a number of countries that have so far been closed for such transparency. This will include the most important countries in which Norwegian taxpayers have been able to hide money in order to avoid taxes. Norway will continue to participate actively in international work to eliminate such opportunities for hiding and tax evasion. The specific measures taken to counteract the impact of the financial crisis in Norway are temporary. As the situation in the Norwegian economy becomes normalised, the measures will gradually decline. The Bank of Norway has already begun to increase the minimum price of the swap loan scheme as banks’ financing opportunities in the markets have improved, and the Bank has announced that the last auction will take place in December of this year. Until the beginning of October, there are swaps for NOK 228 billion in the scheme, and it does not appear that the entire framework of NOK 350 billion will be used. The deadline for applying to the State Financial Fund for capital injections expired on 30 September 2009. Requests had been received from 34 banks. On 17 August 2009, when the State bond fund presented the report for the first six months, SEK 6.2 billion of the 50 billion framework was placed in the bond market. The need for capital injection into business and banks through the State Bond Fund and the State Financial Fund is reduced when capital can now be reclaimed from other sources. Also the interest rate, which is now historically low, will eventually have to increase again. Norway’s Bank has indicated that the interest rate base has now been reached and that the interest rate will gradually increase. Norway’s Bank has estimated that the normal level of the interest rate is between 5 and 6 pst. It will also be necessary to phase out gradually the incentives of fiscal policy and to bring the use of oil revenue from the State budget back to the 4-percentile line, in line with the budgetary policy action rule. When the growth of the economy takes place, the use of oil revenues must again correspond to the real return of the State pension fund — Foreign. It will limit the scope of action in budgetary policy in the future. Measured as a proportion of the value added in the mainland economy, the proposed use of oil revenues in 2010 is estimated to be 2.3 percentage points higher than the expected fund return. This is a far more favourable starting point for securing good government finances than most other countries have. The OECD estimates that the structural budget deficit in the US will rise in close to 9 p.m. GDP next year, while the deficit in the United Kingdom is estimated at over 10 pst. Japan and some euro area countries also face a large budget deficit. At the same time, these countries have some significant net government debt initially. The strategies chosen by individual countries to restore sustainability in public finances will affect the further economic development of our medium-term trading partners and also represent an uncertainty factor for the assessment of developments in the Norwegian economy. The 2010 budget is well adapted to the economic situation. It is a budget that takes account of the still need for action against unemployment. It is also a budget that strengthens the aspects of Norwegian society that have helped us through the financial crisis and that will help us to face crises in the future as well. Not least, it is a budget that reflects the seriousness of climate change and the need for migration to a low-carbon society. It is a budget that takes the challenges of the future seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e313	The President will propose that a comment round be opened, limited to one post of up to 5 minutes from each batch group. That is in accordance with Section 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure. The President will then propose to depart from Paragraph 34(a) of the Rules of Procedure, so that, after each intervention by the opposition parties, a comment is given by the Minister of Finance and then a final comment by representatives of the opposition parties of up to 2 minutes each. Furthermore, it is proposed that a comment by the Minister of Finance or the Prime Minister be opened up to 3 minutes at the end of the debate. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e322	The red-green government regained the government power in September on a clear message of value about work for all, fair distribution and bet on the common arenas of society. It may not surprise me that among these goals, there is work for everyone who is in a special position, because work is the very support of society. A year ago, I remember that was a great deal of uncertainty, and the Minister of Finance has described in an excellent way – what to say – the tone, what we faced when Lehman Brothers went bankrupt, and the stock exchanges ran all over the world. There was a serious danger to the jobs of very many Northmen. In time, the government’s medicament has shown that both timing and dosage were correct. We quickly made the financial market work again. Banks are no longer equally concerned, and the growth in unemployment will not increase in much near as much as we feared this winter. On behalf of Norwegian workers, I am pleased that the measures we took have worked. But I'm worried – still – about parts of Norwegian business, what is particularly competitive, and we need to pay particular attention to that in the years to come. However, although there will be difficult times of great economic uncertainty, I believe that the Government's proposal to the government budget responds to the challenges, both by pursuing an economic policy that is responsible, by continuing many of the nutrition proposals in the winter action package, and by increasing the number of action places for people who lose their jobs. The struggle for jobs is the Workers' Party's historical heritage, and a struggle it is worth continuing. But the draft budget also contains many good proposals that I believe strengthen the Community arenas of society. More people are going to be treated in our hospitals. We follow up on the promise in the election campaign of a separate investment grant for the construction of new lucky day care places for our elders. We're betting in common school by expanding with one extra lesson and offering free homework, so that all kids get a better training offer. All of this is possible because we have tough enough leaders and tough enough politicians to say no to billions of tax relief. But saying no to large tax cuts is not the same as not making the necessary improvements in the tax system. It's been the last four years that those degrees have shown us. We have a much fairer tax system today than we had four years ago. I believe that the proposal on fairer rules for the valuation of dwellings in property taxes is a new, clear improvement in the tax system. The Minister of Finance also described this. It is simply no longer possible to explain and defend how residential property has been systematically valued unfairly throughout the country. It is therefore high time that something was done. But I have to admit that I am excited about how the opposition will react to the changes proposed, and not least how they will react to the fact that there is now a red-green government with a finance minister from the Socialist Left who is proposing, far on the way, that it is now over that ordinary people should bear the main burdens of the wealth tax. Who would have thought it was a prime minister from the Norwegian Labour Party and a finance minister from a socialist left-wing party who has increased the net income tax from NOK 150 000 and up to SEK 1.4 million. kr. Yes, I say: I welcome the opposition to debate on these proposals. As for what was proposed in the election campaign, that one would challenge the very bearer of the wealth tax, that is, remove it, it should be very interesting to see if it is the red-green parties that are implementing the extensive changes, or what is going to happen. I will end by welcoming the opposition to cooperation in the Financial Committee. It will be an exciting harvest, with an exciting political government budget presented. And then I look forward to good debates on both taxes, taxes and other important welfare areas in months to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e339	It was good that the Council of State Storberget remembered to present the budget today, so that we could then have any good cooperation in the financial committee and actually deal with the budget! I was a little worried that you now thought that through the majority it wasn't necessary to go the way about the Storting. [[Laughter]] But I'm very happy that it was fixed at last little. I note that this government's presentation of the budget shows in many ways a government that wants to manage. There has been strong criticism from us in the Progress Party and the rest of the opposition through debate on the census and media debate related to Soria Moria II, and we lack visions and visions on how to reform Norwegian society in key areas where the welfare society has major challenges. This budget does not respond to these challenges. This budget seems to me to be a desire to continue to administer. By spending a lot of oil money you can still add in a number of areas, but the big visions and the visions are missing. It's pretty interesting to look at the government's oil money usage. The government spends a lot of oil money, more oil money than the Progress Party has ever proposed. At the same time, this use of oil money is justified by the financial crisis. That's why you can spend so much money. I assume that in 2011 you will start tightening up this use of money. How this is to be done with the government's own rhetoric – now that you're essentially adding to all public budgets, in all departments, and are spending a lot more on public bureaucracy – that you're about to start tightening up in a year, can be interesting. I think you're going to meet yourself at the door as long as you have the sacred relationship you're saying, to the famous rule of action. The financial crisis is not over. It also confirms the Minister of Finance. She also justifies a great use of oil money. But if you still have a financial crisis, which I think you have, and if you see that parts of Norwegian business have major challenges, why doesn't this government budget respond to these challenges? There is nothing in this state budget that meets that part of Norwegian business that is struggling because of the financial crisis. The Minister of Finance himself said that there were major challenges in the export industry, the shipbuilding industry, construction and construction. However, these are now parts of Norwegian business which are not specifically taken care of by the State budget submitted. There will then be something hidden when you say that you are very concerned about this financial crisis, but do not respond to the challenges of the budget that have been presented. I also record that the government is noticing that interest rates are going to rise, because the governor has said so. It also means tightening up too much of Norwegian business, and not least for many consumers in the year and years to come. The great effort that the Prime Minister spoke about in the election campaign was to be care of the elderly. This budget provides for a grant scheme for 2 500 new nursing homes and nursing homes in municipalities. The special thing is that the greatest promise, the greatest reform promised by the Government, namely to strengthen the care of the elderly, is left to the municipalities. There are now 430 municipalities that want to make use of these grants. 430 different municipalities should say whether they have the ability to implement the promise of care for the elderly as promised by the Government. So you promise on behalf of someone else, who might want to consider implementing it. So we know that the local government sector, despite new, fresh money from the Government in this state budget, is facing major challenges – among others. It has a lot of loans. It has not been said that you can handle this expansion that the Government now promises on behalf of the municipalities. And why do you need a roof? If it is important to expand nursing homes and nursing homes, why does the grant scheme have a ceiling of 2 500 places? I don't understand. What about the health cows? We know that we have over 250,000 patients waiting for important treatment at our institutions. The government's response to there is an increased patient treatment of 1.3 pst. There is a poor consolation for many of those who will remain in line with this state budget when the budget is most likely to be clubbed through here in the Stortinget. The Minister of Finance also mentioned the movement and appearance of the bet there. Yes, it is a big effort, but the effort proposed in the 2010 state budget does not follow up on the national transport plan that was adopted a few months ago. So you're going to have a backlog already in the first year of the national transport plan, which shows the tables that are in the proposition. It is worrying, all the time we have woken up today to the news that there is no capacity available and that more could be done on the construction side.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e362	A brief comment of up to 2 minutes from the Minister of Finance is given.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e365	I strongly disagree with the representative, Leirstein, that this is a budget without vision. There are clear objectives to create a more solidarity and a more environmentally friendly society. That's what we're looking for in this budget. We're going to get CO2 clean-up, which is going to be an important technology development to limit climate emissions. We are proposing a conversion in terms of the valuation of dwellings and the property tax, which is a big grip. I noticed with interest that the representative Leirstein did not comment on it. I hope that means that he's going to spend some time getting into it, because there's an extensive material that's right there about it. Then we can get rid of some gross injustice. An important vision is to pursue a policy of fairer distribution and to remove gross injustice. A clear vision has been to put in place full child care coverage, and we continue to strengthen the offer to the children because we know that both school, SFO and kindergartens are the most important venues for combating differences and for giving kids the best possible starting point. A clear vision is to provide good health services to the population through both strengthening the treatment capacity in hospitals and ensuring that we are smarter in the future through the interaction reform, which means that more patients can be treated in municipalities when they are ready for hospital discharge. We know that many of the patients are now in hospitals, and this is how others in line prevent them from coming in and getting good treatment. So, the demanding thing about this budget is to figure out how we're going to deal with oil money. Every seven dollars of public budgets is now an oil crown. There are good reasons for doing so because unemployment is increasing further. But the challenges of the competitive sector cannot be allowed to escape. The way we do best to help the competitive sector, it's to keep up the use of oil money, and we do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e381	I find it strange that the Minister of Finance says that oil money is being held back when you spend as much oil money as you actually do. I don't have any problems with that government doing it. It is more interesting that the government's own rhetoric should not mean that you would spend so much money. But you choose to do it when it suits the Government – and that's the government's privilege. I did not have time to comment on the property tax, simply because this was on a note I never wanted to get to. That's what's the dilemma in here sometimes, when the clock goes fast. The progress party is very happy that the government is now increasing its bottom line to NOK 700000. Very good! That means you think the system was unfair as it was. So you used four years of government to realize that this was unfair, and then you made a proposal that is very positive about increasing the bottom line. How this will turn out with the increased housing tax for someone as an element of property tax, we need to look into it. I hear you say you have to correct some biases. I think as long as you have the wealth tax, there'll always be distortions in the system. You'll never be able to create a perfect system where you won't have any so-called injustice. Either way, the unfair thing here is going to be the entire wealth tax as such. Many who invest in jobs and invest in the continuation of value creation in Norway feel that it is unreasonable to be taxed in the way that wealth taxes are charged. But the bottom line is absolutely positive, and I am very happy that the government came to the realization that you had to get a much higher bottom line. As far as visions are concerned, I still believe that the major reforms are lacking, which should perhaps have been taken into account. I hear you talk about the interaction reform. Well, it's also a little bit ahead of time. The point now is that for all those who are in line today, for those who are waiting in hospital, waiting for patient treatment in one of our hospitals – everyone who is in need of treatment now – the reforms will not help in a few years’ time. We need action, and we need that now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e390	The division of labour on the budget day is often the government's discretionary model, and the opposition has to find the critical points. So let me start by stating that Norway is a good country to live in, and that will also be after this budget has been adopted. We have unique opportunities in our country, and we have got better through the financial crisis than the very many fears. There are also positive signs in the Norwegian economy, and it is important that we take care of them. I would like to stress that there has been good cooperation on the measures taken during the financial crisis, in particular those relating to banking and finance, but also other measures. On the right, it has always felt that the financial crisis should have been used to invest more in the future, to focus more on knowledge, more on research, more on a shift in a more sustainable and environmentally sound direction, and to improve measures for enterprises in the private sector, for job creators, for small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, there is reason to remain concerned about jobs in industry and in the competitive sector. The budget presented today will not dampen the pressure on interest rates and exchange rates, nor will there be any other measures that could have facilitated the situation in the private sector. The government announces in the budget that it will get tighter in the years to come. There will be less room for action in the public budgets. Then is the time over which you can measure any success in how much money you give. Then the government should be more concerned about what results you achieve. There is a need for tougher priorities. New solutions are needed if we are to manage more public sector tasks. For me, it seems that the government is a little empty of ideas, that it lacks the power to implement reforms that allow us to get more out of the money we have at our disposal. We have been growing health cows for four years and saying no to working with private people to bring down health cows. We have been through a period when there have been increases in traffic, but where we say no to new solutions that could help us build faster. Let me point to some of the major challenges ahead. There is a need to provide a leverage for higher education and research. This budget means continuing the interception of higher education. It's going backwards into the future. There is a need to release funds in public budgets, so that we can invest more in the future, make sure that we invest in knowledge and research. The second challenge is that we have to make sure that more of the job growth comes in the private sector. We have to make sure that there are easier conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises, for job creators. In that case, we will have to reduce the administrative burden on Norway through less red tape, less form fields and reduce taxes and taxes on businesses. There is a need to reduce the exclusion. It is worrying that more and more people are being pushed out of the labour market and are going into social security and are not coming back into a job situation for a shorter or longer period. There is a need to ensure that we can solve more tasks within the public budgets we have. Norway should then be made less over-administrative, in terms of the municipal sector, in terms of the number of levels of administration, and opened up better cooperation with private individuals. But we have a government that is a bit trapped in its own network because you have an allergy to working with private forces, and because you don't want to do anything about the municipal structure. Finally, it is gratifying that the Government is increasing its asset tax base. However, real reductions in property taxes should be made in order to strengthen private ownership in Norway, so that we could ensure that owners were given more capital to invest in small and medium-sized enterprises to secure jobs in the future. Then there are many people who have to expect that they will get higher housing taxes in the years that come. It will come to the top of the government's increase in housing and property taxes by DKK 4 billion over four years, and that many will also have to count on higher interest rates in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e409	I am glad that the representative Sanner starts by saying that Norway is a good country to live in, too often it is in this kind of debate that many people have to rub their eyes and do not feel completely familiar. I am also pleased with the cooperation we have had with the opposition, especially with regard to banking measures, and the situation in which it was about obtaining credit for business – because it was precarious at some point in time. So I'm willing to look a little bit big on all the calls I got from the Right and other parties in the opposition that we came too little late to fight the effects of the financial crisis. Now, when we look back, we've taken the right measures, with the right scale of the measures we've taken. But they're temporary. We are phased out now, and there are still challenges in the Norwegian economy in the future. So the representative, Sanner, accuses the government of having gone empty of ideas. So the big, innovative ideas from the Right are large-scale privatisation and municipal mergers. I am not able to see that there are new proposals. It has been tried by many countries before with very poor results. There is no reason that neither Norwegian business nor the majority of the people would want to go after large-scale privatisation in Norway. On the contrary, the Norwegian welfare state has been a very good starting point for dealing with business in a time of crisis. The fact that we have done important tasks, for example: in terms of health and education, together, has been an advantage when markets have collapsed, as we have seen in countries around us. But the representative Sanner is right. It's going to be harder to get out of challenges in the future. And it's going to make greater demands on how we use the resources we have in society. [[President clubs]] For the major challenge we face in the competitive sector, we do not put ourselves in a position to fire under a [[President clubs]] [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e420	The President will draw attention to the fact that when the clock in front of the interlocutors shows zero, the speaking time is out. It's not indicative! It will be practiced at least as strictly as the rule of action. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e424	Then it's a little flexible, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e429	If you want to deal with time like the rule of action, we have a little to go on – at least in 2009 and 2010! With regard to the financial crisis, we have now seen strong growth in public employment. At the same time, we have mainly lost many jobs in the private sector. The Right believes that time has come to ease the burden on small and medium-sized enterprises, for the many job creators in our country, to reduce administrative costs, to have less bureaucracy, to reduce legislation and to lower taxes, so that we can create more sustainable and secure jobs in the future. I believe that one of the most important tasks we have is to make sure that more of the job growth comes in the private sector. Then we have to have a government that is happy in businesses, which makes it easier to create and secure the jobs we have in the private sector. I did not say that we wanted some large-scale privatisation, but I called for cooperation with private individuals. For what we have experienced in recent years is that there has been a record amount of money allocated to health and many other areas, but no similar results have been seen. The health queues have increased. It is built less by road than it was done under the bourgeois government. We are at the top of appropriations for school, while we have medium-sized results. That is why there is a need for innovation. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen, the outgoing Minister of Health, has said that the Right is right when we say that more cooperation with private individuals will bring down health cows. There is evidence that cooperation with private individuals in the transport sector would have meant that we could have built more quickly. I therefore say that the government is empty of ideas, because it responds with yesterday's solutions to the challenges we are now facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e438	In yesterday's throne debate, Siv Jensen asked very contemptuously where the red-green government would now let the welfare state eze out. She has received the answer today. The welfare state will explore important areas which are important for children’s growth conditions, for the safety and quality of life of older people, for the environment and for the willingness of citizens to contribute to the community. The budget shows a solid impact on the main issues of the SV. The environment, fair distribution and growing conditions of children are strengthened out of this budget, which is so-called weakly expansive. Extended school day, two hours free of charge SFOs in a week with homework for the youngest children, measures against high school dropouts, kindergarten reform, new grants for cultural schools and interest-rate compensation schemes, so that we can clean up schools and swimming facilities, are important steps that children and young people will enjoy in the years to come. I don't think they're going to share Siv Jensen's slightly demeaning description of a welfare state that's escalating, or the statement to her colleague Tybring-Gjedde about unauthorizedness. In the field of the environment, important promises are made. Our government has received a lot of attention for the rain forest effort from the climate agreement, which is now being reinforced. I'll say a little bit about why this is important. Firstly, one fifth of global greenhouse gas emissions are caused by the destruction of rainforests and other tropical forests. halting the loss of tropical forests is the most effective and the most reasonable immediate measure to reduce climate change. Secondly, large parts of the natural diversity are linked to the rainforest. And thirdly, it is important to ensure the rights of indigenous peoples and other forest-based peoples, which in turn are essential to halt deforestation and thus reduce greenhouse gas emissions. The solution to the cancer, HIV/AIDS or malaria may be found in the natural diversity of the rainforest. Norwegian nature has also made important contributions to human health and well-being. In 1969, for example, a Swiss married couple who went for a walk on Hardangervidda, an unimaginable soil soup. The substance contained ciclosporin, which has been shown to facilitate the transplantation of hearts and other organs. Besides climate change, eradicating species diversity is the greatest environmental challenge of our time, and it can thus deprive us of human beings important keys to better health and quality of life. Researchers now estimate that the rate and extent of species extinction is up to a thousand times that of normal. If the trend continues, as much as one third of all species on the globe may be lost by the middle of this century. The government's forestry effort must also be seen in the light of this. In addition, we are now increasing the appropriations for the Ministry of the Environment, so that we can follow the laws of natural diversity – the most important tool to stop the loss of natural diversity here at home. The budget is also characterised by the commitment to CO2 clean-up, climate research, environmental technologies and the introduction of important environmental taxes, as well as the provision of alerted interventions to make it more profitable to choose cars that pollute little, and more unprofitable to choose cars that pollute the most. This is very important because the increases from emissions in road traffic are very large and make it difficult for us to achieve the climate targets if we do not put in important steps. We've notified that we're going to do it, and we're going to continue the conversion that we started on. Finally, we also get a CO2 tax on gas, which will remove an important barrier to competition for bioenergy. There are opportunities for a green industry that can provide many new jobs in the future. A little about distribution at the end. With the 2010 government budget, the government intends to introduce a fairer tax on housing. The feature of the NRK today early, with Peter Batta at its head, was completely misleading as to what is to happen now. Our government, unlike the previous government, where the Right was involved, has systematically made the tax on wealth more fair. Large groups have been relieved or are now free to pay taxes on wealth, while we have tightened up on top. It's in line with the principle that we're going to deliver by ability. The handles that are now being taken to ensure a fairer and fairer valuation of dwellings will primarily mean relief for large groups of people. But for a small group of approx. 1000 persons with gross income on average over 3 million. kr will increase the property tax by approx. NOK 15 000 per year. years. The big picture is that we now ensure a redistribution from the west edge of Oslo and Bærum, the core areas of Jan Tore Sanner, to the east edge of Oslo and the rest of the country. 92 pst. of the population of Oslo, as the Minister of Finance said, has any relief from the taxes on wealth or from the current taxes on wealth. Eight out of ten people who pay taxes on wealth today are getting relief. It gives some perspective on this discussion. Our government is for justice. We're not just for tax purposes, but because it's fair that people provide according to ability and get as needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e467	The 2010 budget is being presented at an internationally very demanding time. Through a deliberately expansive fiscal policy combined with historically low governance rates, Norway has progressed far better through the first phase of the financial crisis than countries can naturally be compared with. There are several reasons for this, including: our large financial assets, our large public sector and a significant sale of natural resources, as commodities, where the price level is less affected than the prices of ordinary industrial products. Norway is currently almost as a privileged island in a European sea of leisure. This creates new challenges in a situation where there is free movement of cross-border persons within the EEA territory. However, it is important for the Central Party to insist that this real economic situation is a result of long-term political priorities, resulting from a wide-ranging public change of words and associated political conflict. We are reaping today from previously saved values, economic and political. It is the many unemployed people with their industrious hands who have done this job in practice. Knowledge-rich people who stay in good shape and meet precisely at work are our main national capital. Norway has huge natural resources in relation to the population, both non-renewable natural resources such as oil, gas and coal, and – even more important in the long term – huge renewable natural resources such as fish, hydropower, timber and large areas where we can produce our own food through photosynthesis. As a result of a very high rate of extraction of oil and gas, we have over time received a special cost level in Norway that poses major competition problems for our export industries. At the same time, our oil production is strongly decreasing. International, inter alia in the United States, Germany and Japan, efforts are being made to break free from the strong dependence on oil and gas as a source of energy. This fact requires that we urgently put in place a national strategy for a new industrial era in Norway, based on long value chains and a knowledge-based technology for the processing of our natural resources. Most importantly, the focus on such value chains is on our renewable natural resources. In order to maintain our high level of well-being, this future business must have a high level of payability and a high degree of competitiveness in international markets. As far as the Central Party sees the matter today, the two most important areas of government are shrinking our enormous distance costs in our long-term country, as well as powerful public stimulation of new technology, so that it becomes profitable for our private businesses, small and large, to invest in forward-looking production processes that can in the short term have a high risk and a low-payable market, but that we will need in the future society. This public incentive sees the Central Party as a necessary correction of the market forces to which the maximum effort is required. In order for this to be a necessary force, it is necessary to stimulate a change of words among owners, professional organisations, local communities and our university environment under the VG network: ‘What do we want with Norway?’ It requires priority and short-term economic delays to provide a safe platform for green industry when the oil epoch is phased out. In this state budget, an important innovative step has been taken through the proposal to grant 100 million. kr over Innovation Norway to the new eco-innovation investment aid scheme. The centre party will develop and expand this idea in order to realize our industrial policy visions. What we're talking about is, for example, This twig that I have here, a reviewer, which is the stronger it grows, the greener it is, the more carbon dioxide it eats. Gran contains carbon. Carbon from wood, if developed industrially, can eventually replace carbon from oil and gas so that the plastic in future cars comes from wood instead of gas and oil. - Very large, exciting perspectives! Norway has the prerequisites to address this issue. The State budget also represents an increase in appropriations for more communications that will shrink the country. There are investments that we want to enjoy for many years, which must therefore give greater priority to this period of government. The State's budgetary rules should be reviewed so that we can relatively invest more and consume less. The local government sector is committed to, and is committed to, the voluntary sector by proposing a start-up grant in 2010 for a new VAT compensation scheme for defined voluntary organisations paying for their purchases. Finally, the Government’s proposal for a new asset valuation of housing has not been addressed in the Central Party’s large-scale group. For the Central Party, it is central to have a housing tax that continues the Norwegian political tradition in which the view of housing and homes implies that housing is tax-subsidized, so that most people can own their own nocturnal homes, regardless of where they live in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e495	It could be tempting to say that the fig leaf debate we had before has had a more soil-dwelling revolution in and with Lundtigen's articles. What Lundtegen said was very wise, but unfortunately I have nothing to follow up with just when it comes to type of twig. [[Laughter]] But let me say that no one after this can claim that oil crowns are not used in the state budget, because that is for good. It is such an expansive budget that it must be allowed to believe that after the sweet itch, the sour wean can come. It will be, I think, the Government's biggest challenge in the budgetary years ahead of it, and it could lead to the central bank having to use the interest rate to bring about more balanced economic development gradually. It's been talking about visions, and if there's something we could agree on, I think – from the Christian People's Party too – that we should have visions about, it's making sure that as few people as possible are poor in this country and as few as possible in the big world. We must then record certain disappointments with this budget. If we take the poorest countries, we have to find that there is a real cut in aid, both in country-to-country aid and in aid to international organisations, because the aid is actually eaten up by rainforest activity and the influx of refugees into our own country. It's disappointing from the Christian People's Party. In terms of the poverty rate at home, we are absolutely in favour of an increase in the housing support scheme. However, when it comes to a very important area, such as the Russians and poverty, which are often Siamese twins, I have to say that what is in the State budget is strange reading. We have over 4,000 people in treatment queues, and what's in the budget is barely enough to create a few places. In fact, the budget does not say that new places will be created. go to research activities. For me and for the Christian People's Party, it's a failure statement, and I want to challenge the Minister of Finance on the following: Just before the summer, before the previous accumulation went apart, several non-profit organisations had to put down their well-run treatment sites. Can the Government, through the Minister of Finance, provide a guarantee that there will be no endowment of 4 000 treatment sites operated by non-governmental organisations because of the implementation of a tender system that weakens and partially destroys cooperation between public and voluntary Norway? It should be easy to provide such a guarantee when we know how many queues are waiting for treatment. If you think about poverty, you have to see the relationship between drug policy and poverty policies. We should also like to see that instead of just giving an hour to everyone in the SFO system, targeted measures both in kindergarten and in the SFO, so that those who have the worst advice are given less space, and also free space – not that it is spread out to everyone. It would also have been targeted at poverty. What does it mean when you cut the city plan for children and young people with 20 million dollars? Do you really want to delete this item? It goes right in the target group that you say you want to give priority. So it's a lot to deal with. I am pleased with the invitation from the Financial Committee's head of cooperation. We're going to use that. When the Minister of Finance comes up, my challenge can be: How much room for action – what rule of action – has she given her party traps here in Stortinget when we are about to start working on the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e510	Public cooperation with voluntary non-profit organisations, whether in the field of drugs or child protection, which is another area where there is a great deal of cooperation, has been the subject of government negotiations on a new platform, and has been the subject of many rounds, because we want to have long-term, predictable agreements with the non-profit organisations offering high and good quality access to child protection and drug abuse. However, it is not possible for me to say that any non-profit organisation with any action maintains that quality, or is what is needed in relation to drug treatment, but it is a challenge we have to get good cooperation arrangements with the non-profit organisations that maintain high quality. I had hoped that the representative of the Syversen would also see that there is a commitment to poverty in Norway in many areas of this budget, both in terms of the housing support system and in terms of the lowest social security, which now comes up twice the basic amount of social security. However, I also agree with Mr Syversen that many of the most effective measures in the fight against poverty are those that prevent new ones from becoming poor in the future, namely the provision of children. Of course, there may be a number of measures that need to be targeted. But we have very much faith in the broad universal arrangements, which make children take place in the same place, regardless of their background. That's why the hour of free SFO, and especially we who are from Oslo, knows that in those neighbourhoods where there are many people with minority backgrounds, or parents with poor advice, too few children go to SFO – what's the new playtagata. As far as aid and development are concerned, it is not right that the rainforest rate should be at the expense of aid. It is true that part of the expenditure to receive asylum seekers and refugees in Norway is regarded as assistance, but the representative Syversen may be pleased that he lives in a country with a red-green government, and not in Sweden, where his sister party cuts the aid.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e519	The representative of the Syversen is absolutely happy to live in Norway. If it's because the finance minister's name is Kristin Halvorsen, I'm a little more in doubt about it! But I have it relatively well, and fortunately they have all, most of them – I will admit that too. It's not a problem to be able to say that we have a welfare society we can be proud of, which, of course, also means that we have obligations to help others who are in a completely different situation. Just to take the family policy: I noticed that action was now being taken, so that fathers could now not only meet their children, but they could also get to know them properly! And the reason why you could do that is that 1,500 more people are now going to have a paper issue. So I have to say that there is no lack of vision in certain areas of this government. The Minister of Finance will have that. As far as poverty is concerned, I believe that we may have a slightly different view of this in relation to the general arrangements that we are going to have. But if we are really going to reach those who are involved, we also need to target the measures to a greater extent. Now the Minister of Finance did not answer if there was any room for action for the Red-Greens in the UK to negotiate this budget, but I would challenge the government parties to this very thing, that we could jointly target more measures, so that fewer people would experience poverty in our own country. Let me also hurry to praise something in the budget. The police budget seems to be very good. I also want to commend the government for following up on this with quality of life, that we should not just measure gross domestic product as a kind of unit for what gives good quality of life. The government should be commended for that. Then, as I said, I hope that there is a basis for even better solutions – as the Minister of Finance would say – than what is in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e530	When, as a fresh deputy, I was in the state budget for the first time, I wish I had a large fig leaf, like the size of a spruce tree, to hide behind me, but I am not sure if I had been visible with my Norwegian-Pakistan skin! Now that we've gone through the budget papers and heard the Minister of Finance's statement about the state budget, these first comments from me and the Left will have to be seen in the light of the fact that we haven't been thoroughly involved yet in the budget papers. The Norwegian economy is still in a slightly unbridled situation. We don't know if the crisis is over, or if we have a temporary breathing break. However, I am surprised that the government is choosing such an expansive budget. I had probably expected a budget that was more or less up to the same oil money use as the level adopted by the Stortinget in the context of the revised national budget in 2009. We are – to say the least – reasonably far from the four-percent rule, even if it is to be used flexibly, and there will be strenuous exercises in the next few years to return to the expected fund return. It is not entirely inconceivable that the 2010 government budget contributes to a higher level of interest rates than would naturally result from the mandate of the Norwegian Bank. However, it is also good that the growth in unemployment is not going to be very close to the level of fear. In this area, we might be able to give each other some praise. The package of measures we have agreed on and contributed to has worked. On the other hand, the worrying aspect is the strong growth in the cost of sick pay, disability pension and other benefits over social security. This is a development that we in cooperation must manage to reverse, but where naturally there is a particular responsibility on the Government. Rarely has a draft budget been more predictable and contained less news and less political will to solve the major challenges than what we have been presented today. The major achievements are the results of policies already adopted, the continuation of crisis packages and political settlements, inter alia. to climate and the elderly. The budget appears to be a bit of a revision of the crisis package and a revised budget for 2009. Where the Government should have guided development through budgetary policy, the budgetary policy is governed by development. It's not political leadership. One would think that the government, having won a choice with many and expensive promises, would actually follow these up. There's few, if any, traces of this. Many will feel disappointed, with good reason. But even though the economic space has become slightly smaller than the record growth that the government has had in recent years, there is not a lack of money that is the biggest problem, but that the government lacks the will to find ways to spend it better. When the state budget is then predictable to the degrees, the criticism becomes predictable. The left is calling for exactly the same thing today that we have called for in the last budget negotiations. The government shows no willingness or ability to address the major challenges over the next four years. We need radical new policies for modern low-carbon societies, a liberal knowledge society and reform for a warmer welfare society. In these areas, the Government is at best moving small steps in the right direction. I had hoped that we would finally get a budget that gave what most people agree on: a powerful tax shift from red to green tax. Instead, the Government continues the fiscal policy they have pursued in the last four years. A total change in environmental, energy and car charges of 150 million. kr is with respect to report surprisingly weak. The proposal to change the property tax on housing I would characterise as interesting, but would reserve me and Left a little more time to put us into all sides of that matter. For the left, in any case, there will be a parentheses on the road towards the liquidation of the entire property tax. However, as has already been pointed out, the government and government parties, which have spent almost the entire electoral campaign on attacking parties that will reduce and liquidate the wealth tax, subsequently propose net relief in the same tax of 760 million. kr. The 2010 state budget proposal implies a total absence of targeted policies to provide the many new knowledge companies we need in the future. In reality, the UH sector is being cut off. The answer from the Government to the many who wonder if they should dare to bet for themselves as founders is a crying no. All free labour shall enter the public sector and there are no concrete proposals to facilitate the start-up or operation of small enterprises. It is still early in the budgetary process, but on behalf of the Left, I can promise that we will make proposals for a completely different and more focused effort to address climate challenges, a completely different focus on education, research, innovation and the organisation of many new small, green knowledge businesses, and not least a targeted effort for a warmer welfare society. We will do that within the same economic framework as the Government proposes. That role will the Left dare to take because we both have the ability and the will to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e553	Let me just first say about the basic appropriations for higher education: now the opposition has to stop talking about the'sleep cut'. It's fixed too far. There is a significant commitment to higher education and research in this budget. There is a good focus on industrial research in this budget, and there is a significant focus on study places in this budget. That line doesn't get any better by repeating it. It's all wrong. Then to the representative Raja. I think the representative has got a lot of the headlines in the budget. The dilemma we have for 2010 is how we are going to both ensure that we have a policy that is holding back with regard to increasing unemployment, and at the same time see that we are going back to the 4-percentage line at some point in the future. This is a weakly expansive budget. That's 1/2 pst. budget impulse. It cannot be characterised as an expansive budget in that sense, and there are other conditions, which I had in my post, which make it even less expansive, namely the loss of significant income from dividends to the state. So in terms of the challenges of the future: I think it's refreshing to see how offensive the Left has started this ageing period. It is a fighting left with many suggestions, both yesterday and today. I think that is inspiring, because in many areas we need a discussion on how to follow up the offensive effort that is on the environment and climate in this budget. But we cannot rest there, and I am absolutely sure that the Left has good proposals for how we can get on with it – and also in other areas. That's right, as the representative Raja says: the most important asset we have in Norway is not oil and gas, it's people. That's the knowledge, that's how we develop the school and education systems, so that as much as possible can contribute to society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e562	After four years of starvation of universities and colleges, the government has not discovered the seriousness. The red-green government introduced the cutting of rest in the last period, but does too little to correct the effect of this. The consequences are still meager for this sector. The knowledge billion demanded by the university and higher education sectors has now been reduced to just under 50 million. DKK in increased basic appropriations and DKK 5 billion for the Research Fund. This is too weak. The left will increase the Research Fund to SEK 150 billion in 2010. We will also fully finance study places and increase basic appropriations in addition to the Government's proposals. So I would like to say something about the fact that we would rather see that we had a greater focus on education, research, innovation and the organisation of many new small and green knowledge companies, and not least focused on a warmer welfare society where the fight against poverty among children had the main priority. As the last speaker in this debate, I will be able to add on behalf of myself and the Left – and perhaps reflect the opinions of this Chamber as well: I hope that the Government will follow up the Prime Minister's words from yesterday that the Government will be responsive to good reports and ideas from the Stortinget. I hope not least that will also apply to the budgetary procedure. Unfortunately, this has not been the case in the last four years; hardly a penny has been changed in the budgetary procedures we have had in Stortinget. There has been frustration not only for the many who have met in the open budget hearings of the Storting, or for us who have been in opposition, but also far within the ranks of the government parties. So I hope that especially this year, when the Storting has so many new representatives, the Government is extra responsive to the recordings that are coming. Finally, I would like to say that the words should still have meaning and validity and, not least, echo in our spinal cord, the words expressed by my party's founder, Johan Sverdrup, from the National Assembly's pulpit in 1884: 'All power in this Chamber.'
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e577	Councillor Kristin Halvorsen finally receives a final comment, limited to up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e581	I think this has been an interesting round, for I had expected, and especially after hearing some comments on the radio this morning about this proposal on the valuation of housing in the property tax, that someone on the right-hand side after the spinal reflex had used this whole debate to try to spread rumors about what was really going on, which was not true, and free themselves from it as far as possible. But that hasn't happened. I think we'll be very happy about that, because it's a very good proposal that now lies here, that can eliminate injustice, or provide for a much fairer wealth tax system. I take the tone shown in the debate in this area as a sign that the opposition parties of the Storting also need to consider what the proposals actually are about. There are many single elements here. But many have been concerned for many years with the unfairness that has been associated with the valuation of dwellings. It has existed for a long time. It's incomprehensible to people. A lot of people don't know how unfair it can actually be. Here it is a good grip that takes hold of it. When we then look at what we have done to make the wealth tax a much more effective tool in the distribution policy, I am quite proud that we have raised the bottom line from NOK 151 000 in 2005 – it was for individuals and couples together – to now NOK 700,000 for individuals and SEK 1.4 million. kr for married couples. That means that in 2005 it was 30 pst. by the taxpayers who paid taxes on wealth. Now, after this proposal, it's 17 pst. which pays taxes on wealth. That means that the unfairness it was through many holes and discounts that the most prodigious people used, of which we have now densed again, we have used for the bottomless deduction of ordinary people. Especially with the relief we now have in implementing this system to calculate the equivalency of dwellings, a lot of pensioners will discover that they no longer pay taxes on wealth. There are 520,000 individuals who paid taxes on wealth in 2005, who are now completely free to pay taxes on wealth. Then we have done a good job over time to get it more accurate in the distribution policy, and I am happy to answer the questions that had to come to further elucidate this situation. We have tabled a budget which, of course, is not a loose sketch of how we think it should go further in Norway. This is our proposal for the 2010 budget. But now it's in Stortinget, so now it's up to Stortinget to discuss the basis on which to deal with this budget. We believe that this is a good starting point and an offensive policy for 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e590	The President will propose that the Minister of Finance's statement on the Government's proposals for the State Budget and the National Budget for 2010 be discussed at a later meeting. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-13.ana.ud2161e810	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
