ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e22	The representative, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e25	On behalf of the big business representatives Øyvind Korsberg, Kåre Fostervold and myself, I have the great pleasure of proposing that a big deal be made about the construction industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e30	The representative, Mr Ingreigt S. Sørfonn, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e33	On behalf of the representative Hans Olav Syversen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to strengthen the concern for value creation and regulation simplification by bringing together the responsibility for business-related laws in one department.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e38	The representative, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e41	I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative from the depositors Ketil Solvik-Olsen, Tord Lien and myself to allow the oil reloading of Russian oil and gas products in Bøkfjorden in Kirkenes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e46	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e72	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e81	Yesterday, the Prime Minister was in Saudi and said that the rest of the world should have done as Norway did in dealing with the financial crisis. Then I expect that the Prime Minister also included the administration of the Norwegian people's savings, namely the oil fund. It's nothing less than a scandal. So here, $633 billion has evaporated. It's such a big amount that I'm going to try to break it down. It's going to be 135000 kroner per year. North. It's equal to 744 miles by motorway. It's equal to 1.5 million sick places. So there's large amounts that are now gone. I believe that the Norwegian people are entitled to know what kind of consequences this will have for those responsible for the administration, whether it will have any consequences at all. I also believe that the Prime Minister must respond to whether the Government will soon publish what kind of bonus schemes are given to the employees in the management of the petroleum fund. For example, the government has been ready to publish its bonus schemes to all those working in the private sector, in banking and finance. Most of us understand that, but then it's hard to understand why you shouldn't publish the bonus schemes for those who have managed this money on behalf of the Government. And it might be interesting to know if this means that the government is now going to lay down the management of the petroleum fund. I just want to remind you that the vice president of the Workers' Party, Helga Pedersen, has called it the Progress Party would have done, namely to invest more of this money at home, to throw money out of the window. My question to the Prime Minister will then be: Who is the one who has thrown the money out of the window?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e92	Firstly, in a short time, the Stortinge receives a large-scale report on the activities of the State pension fund — Foreign. Then Stortinget can get all the numbers and all the details about management and about returns and ask questions. When I say that, it's because an important part of the Storting's work is just to control and follow up the decisions the Stortinget has made, the work the Government is doing, and the work the State pension fund is doing. So here nothing is to be hidden, here everything is to come up. Everything has to be reviewed. In addition, it is already announced by the Government that with regard to the rules for what is called active management, they need to be changed because they have learned from what has happened in the past. But then a little bit in general. There is a broad majority of the Stortinget who have thought that the revenue we receive from the oil industry should be invested in Norway. This is why we invest a lot in Norway. We're presenting a transport plan where we're going to spend 100 billion kroner – a lot of oil money – to renovate infrastructure, invest in Norway. But on the one hand, it has to be saved, by investing in assets, shares, in other countries. It has historically given very good returns, although it has also been historically strong fluctuations. The problem now would have been if you were forced to sell. Then you would have suffered great losses. But the state is a long-term investor, and you've quickly earned back the fluctuations you've seen in previous setbacks. Therefore, it is quite possible that in a few years' time we will sit and say that we are not now selling, as many other investors are doing, very profitable when prices start to rise again. So historically, placing money partly in bonds, partly in shares has been very profitable. The State shall not sell and therefore not realise any losses.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e103	Now, there are very many experts in stock placements of this type of investment who believe that what is going on in the oil fund is not very smart, and that it is wrong when the government talks about the long-term perspective – precisely because many of the companies into which the oil fund went, after all, went over 14 days after making large investments in them. The Prime Minister can't explain that. What he cannot explain either is that even on repeated occasions, not later than October 2008, he has attacked the Progress Party and called our proposal to invest more of the oil money at home, to invest less of the oil money in shares, to take less risk, a huge economic experiment. In addition, Martin Kolberg has said that we have to be careful so that the state does not have problems paying the pensions for the future. After all, the name of this fund was changed, called the State pension fund – Foreign. Nevertheless, NOK 633 billion of the Norwegian people's money is now gone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e110	The money is not gone even if the prices of shares are fluctuating. All experience suggests that we are going to experience an increase in share price again. It's only if you were now forced to sell, that this would have been real loss. The last time we had a decline in shares, in 2002, the state bought. There were some of the most profitable investments we've made, and then the prices went up. But then I will insist that it would have been a great experiment and would have led to great uncertainty if we had done what the Progress Party has proposed, namely in good times to spend much more money. Then we had built up the industry, got higher interest rates and major problems. Just because we have kept money in good times, we can now spend a lot of money in bad times. Now we're using a lot of extra oil crowns, just because we've been careful in the good times. This means that we secure jobs, counteract the decline, but then we cannot follow the direction of the Progress Party. Then we have to have a good, responsible management of the money, as the government says.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e119	There will be four follow-up questions – first Jan Tore Sanner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e122	I agree with the Prime Minister that we must look at the management of the oil fund in a long-term perspective. The right-hand side is behind the management's main lines and, among other things, behind it. The Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection adopted a resolution on the proposal from the Commission to the Council (COM(87) 547 final — Doc. I don't think that would make any sense in the situation we've now been in. At the same time, it is important that we have a nuanced and open debate on the oil fund. I understand that many people are now concerned, because this is about our pension money, and it is important that we, as politicians, respond to that concern with transparency and show the cards. It has, among other things, has been found to have been invested in mortgages in the United States, that these investments have been borrowed, that there has been a so-called ‘gearing’ of these investments. I think that we can say in retrospect has not been in line with the caution that the oil fund is going to show. I would therefore like to ask the Prime Minister to confirm that there is now a need for more transparency in both bonuses. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e127	We have to make a very clear distinction between two things with regard to the State pension fund and the price development you have seen on those investments. One is where the market has been followed, followed the reference index. There's been a fall. That the Pension Fund feels that it follows, that is in and on its own as intended by the Storting when there is a major decline in international markets. But then there's another type of case, and that's what's called the active administration, where you haven't completely followed the market. That's what really bothers me the most, and that's why it's important that we now go through the experience with the active administration. Although that amount is much smaller, it is more serious, for it is something that should not have happened, based on the guidelines set by the Storting and followed up by the Government. That is why it is announced that we will have new rules for active management, and therefore also an important part of the message we are now presenting, just a presentation to the Stortinge on the experience and learning of the experience of active management.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e133	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e136	I think the Norwegian people understand just as much the importance of investing this Norwegian wealth out and own businesses like Prime Minister Stoltenberg and I do. They understand that owning shares will fluctuate in value on paper, but over time there will be a higher return than any other way to keep savings. But if the Norwegian people are to understand this, they must know, and we must have so much confidence in our people that everything is put on the table. For people can quickly become suspicious of what happens, if they don't get to know. Therefore, it is necessary that these bonuses come on the table. Perhaps even worse, what has emerged in recent days, namely that Norway’s Bank has chosen to publish much less through the quarterly reports after the financial crisis came to an end. When they had bad news, they had less they would tell the Norwegian people about the bad news. This means that everyone should become skeptical of this policy. Will the Prime Minister now make sure that his people know what he knows?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e141	Yes, it is very important that there is transparency about the investments, about the activities of the State pension fund and of the Norwegian Bank. That is why, first of all, accounts and annual reports are provided, and we regularly provide a big deal for the Storting. In a short time, the Government will provide a big message about the activities of the State pension fund with comprehensive information, and the Stortinget will have the full opportunity to ask more in detail if it is considered that there is insufficient or comprehensive information. In the case of bonuses, there is transparency for senior executives at the Bank of Norway. In addition, Norway’s Bank has gone further by explaining in its annual report the number of performance-based salaries, the average fixed salary they have, the upper bonus frameworks for investment departments and operational departments, and the bonus payments given in 2008 as a percentage of wages and salaries. So you explain bonus payments, the remuneration of administrators in Norway's Bank, in addition to that resulting from the Accounting Act.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e148	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e151	I would like to return to this with active management. In today's Our Country, which has a picture that I expect the Prime Minister to recognize in which rainforests are being rescued, it appears that Norway has increased its investments. The pension fund has increased its investments in companies that are raging rainforest, so that the investments there are almost three times larger than what we are actually doing to counteract rainforest erosion. So my question is, when the Pension Fund is running an investment policy that is contrary to what the Government says it stands for, does the Prime Minister believe that that type of investment is long-term and forward-looking investment on the Norwegian side?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e156	First, what the government does, with broad support in the Storting, to save the rainforest, is very important. One of the most important things we can do to combat global warming is prevent deforestation, and there is a significant effort by Norway there. Secondly, there are ethical guidelines for the Pension Fund, also with broad support in the Storting, and we follow up those guidelines, withdrawing from companies like, among other things. do not follow up human rights and have activities in breach of international treaties to which Norway has acceded. There we take individual companies one by one, including those who have serious violations of e.g. environmental standards. So we'll follow that up. Therefore, it is not possible to decide on a single company or any individual company in a debate in Stortinget. It is in the case of a case before the Ethics Council, and an assessment of the extraction mechanisms we have. But what we have also announced is that we are going to create our own environmental programme in the State pension fund – this to further strengthen the environmental profile.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e161	Ulf Leirstein – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e164	I have to say I'm going to be surprised that the Prime Minister is taking so easily the loss of value that has been in the State pension fund – abroad. What we've heard about is NOK 633 billion, is the loss you have for 2008, while it's not very long until we get a quarterly report for the first quarter of 2009, where we're probably going to see even more blood red numbers. So it worries me that the Prime Minister is not more concerned about it. But to that with transparency: I record that in the annual report of the Staten pension fund – Foreign countries on page 42. ‘By the end of October 2008, an expected relative volatility of the Fund was measured that exceeded the framework established by the Ministry of Finance.’ This means that you can openly admit that you have actually broken the government's instructions on how to manage this. Is that why you choose to cap bonus payments in Norway's Bank Investment Management, and that you may have paid bonuses to people who have actually broken the rules laid down by the Government itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e176	First of all, because there has been greater risk than the size and the government has put up, it has been reinforced that the guidelines should be followed, second, that we should go through the model device we have to measure and manage risk, thirdly, we have notified new guidelines, and fourthly, we have notified a large-scale report that comes to the Stortingen in a short time, about all of these conditions, i.e. about the activities of the State pension fund. There is transparency about management remuneration at the Bank of Norway. All executives are fully transparent about this. In addition, several years ago, the Minister of Finance has taken the initiative of extra or more transparency, so that the annual report explains how many people have bonus payments, average bonus payments, bonus frameworks, fixed wages, etc. This is publicly available information which goes beyond what is provided by the Accounting Act, to which the Norwegian Bank is not subject, but which it has nevertheless chosen to follow.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e183	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e186	I will be allowed to challenge the Prime Minister to lift his eyes, to look a little into the future. We are facing a growing choice for the autumn that will not only respond to day-to-day policy in Norway, but will also respond to how we build our country to meet our challenges for the future. We know that in ten to fifteen years, the wave of older people will start to take real action on public expenditure in Norway. We have ten years to build our ability to carry a welfare society where we're going to have both more and better quality of what we give to the elderly, and on the hospital system we have. In 2001, we agreed quite broadly in Norway, from the Labour Party to the Right, that there was a good reason for us to spend more oil money into the Norwegian economy. So we were going to use 4 pst. to invest in growth capacity annually in the future. We had to invest in growth-enhancing tax incentives, we had to invest in infrastructure, and we had to invest in research and development. This government has lost track of those objectives. It's documented that only 20 pst. the funds during that period have been used for those purposes. Now when we look forward, we know that a return of 4 pst. gives us almost 500 billion dollars in aggregate over the next ten years to bet on just these conditions. My challenge to the Prime Minister is whether he is willing to go into this election campaign and say yes, the extra oil billions coming in the years to come will be used for what we agreed in 2001, we will commit ourselves to the mast, now we must lift the Norwegian growth capacity, so that we bear the welfare of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e194	Firstly, I am pleased that the representative, Solberg, addresses some fundamental and important issues relating to the long lines of Norway and Norwegian policy. Secondly, I would like to say that I am always a little cautious about using the word ‘fire wave’, because in it there may be a notion that there is something negative. The fact that more people live longer is basically one of the most positive things that happen in our country. And we actually live a lot longer than before. Lifetime increases by something like two years every ten years based on the last numbers, and it's amazing, it's historic. In addition, we give birth to many children. So there's obviously a lot going well in this country. That being said, it is clear that there are some challenges, and they must be met. It is primarily about securing a lot of jobs. Low unemployment and high employment are important. That is why I am pleased that we halved unemployment from 2005 to 2008 and set a new record in the number of people working here in the country. Then I am pleased that a broad majority of the Stortinget have joined a pension reform that makes it more profitable to work, and that promotes the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy – perhaps the most important single measure that has been taken in many years to strengthen the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. Third, there's a lot of investment in value creation here in the country. We've had record private investment. We have big public investment. The transport plan is an expression of that. We're doing more research than ever before. But I also mean a good health care system, a good school, municipal expenditure – these things – is helping to strengthen the growth capacity of the Norwegian economy. We both have to create and share. If we're good at one, we're good at the other, and that's the government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e205	I can only note that the Prime Minister will not commit himself to what he provided in 2001 for why we should phase in more oil money into the Norwegian economy. He does not want us to commit to using the extra space for action to increase growth through tax incentives for business, by providing more research and development and more infrastructure. So the 100 billion more on the infrastructure that's in the plan is just 20 pst. of the space of action that the Government itself estimates during the same period that the Norwegian economy is receiving because of extra oil money, and I must say that it is disappointing. It disappoints that you are so short-sighted that you are not willing to take the big debates and promise things in the future. So under this government, our competitiveness has become worse, and our growth capacity has become worse. We will not be strengthened out of this crisis if we do not lift our eyes and give some clear commitments, including: lifting research and development and providing better framework conditions for business. I hope the Prime Minister can give a clearer signal about yes to the use of oil money in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e214	First of all, the most important thing we do to boost growth is to secure people's jobs. Nothing contributes more to growth than people working, and nothing contributes more to reducing growth than people going unemployed. That's point one. Point two: Yes, we're going to bet on research. That's why we've increased the research appropriations, and we've increased them more than the previous government. So both the level and the rate of growth are higher with this government in terms of investing in research. Yes, we need to invest in infrastructure. Let's get 2 billion dollars over the Bondevik II scheme per year. years from 2005 to 2009. We've overfilled it, and now we're going to go 100 billion kroner over it in the next decade with a fantastic effort to renovate Norwegian infrastructure. No, we're not going to reduce the overall tax rate. We made that clear in 2004, when we had the tax reform. Then we said we should continue the level we had when we made the tax reform. We have that promise, and you can trust the Workers' Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e221	There will be four follow-up questions – first Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e224	The Prime Minister said that one of the most important things is to ensure that people have jobs. But I guess it's so important to make sure people don't lose their jobs. I want to remind the Prime Minister that one million people in Norway today work in small and medium-sized private companies. Almost no matter who of the business owners I talk to – or entrepreneurs, innovationists – they all point out that the government's response to the financial crisis has not benefited these companies, primarily because the government is terrified of using tax relief. Many of these enterprises will survive the crisis, assuming that they are able to manage their expenditure, and tax relief will be a very important instrument. Therefore, I would like to ask the Prime Minister whether he is willing to consider tax relief as an instrument to ensure that people keep their jobs, in the part of business that actually creates the values that politicians love to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e233	Small and medium-sized enterprises are very important. They're very good, and I'm very good to them, but we may disagree on how best to promote, strengthen, small and medium-sized enterprises. I also meet a lot of people who represent these companies, and they're busy with a lot of different things. The government adds that we're going to do a lot for them. The main measure is now lower interest rates. It is for the benefit of all small and medium-sized enterprises that have debts, and it is an advantage because people get more purchasing power and go and trade goods and services produced by small and medium-sized enterprises. Secondly, the things we are doing in the public sector — raising schools, maintaining roads — are also giving many jobs to small and medium-sized enterprises. Thirdly, we have given relief on the tax side, not least to small and medium-sized enterprises, through the tax relief we provided in the package of measures on 26 January. And fourthly, I believe that even small and medium-sized enterprises understand that we need money in the common fund, that fissure layer, which allows us to pay for health, for hospitals, for schools, for care over the tax bill, and therefore we do not generally promise lower taxes, but we promise a fairer tax system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e240	Hans Olav Syversen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e243	I have to say I am stunned when I hear the Prime Minister talk about investing in higher education and research. The self-certificate of a formerly responsible minister was that you were inside a rest section, a rest section you're not actually out of yet, if you look at the realities behind the figures. Then, of course, it is certainly nice for both small and medium-sized enterprises that the government is happy with them as well as for them. But the question is, what do you actually do when the central bank manager can now say that the cost growth in Business Norway is so much higher than in other countries, and that where we have previously taken it back when productivity increases, it is now falling also in relation to countries we can compare with? So my question is simply: what will the government do to improve the framework conditions for the small and medium-sized enterprises that you are both happy about and for?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e250	I think that small and medium-sized enterprises are happy that we are happy with them – and the opposite would at least be a problem. But the second is that everything we do to secure value creation, the safe Norwegian economy, is about small and medium-sized enterprises, because what is the main emphasis of the Norwegian economy is the small and medium-sized enterprises. So when we succeed in pursuing a good economic policy in general, we also conduct a good economic policy for small and medium-sized enterprises. So, for example, the main means of meeting the setback in the international economy — lower interest rates — is for the benefit of small and medium-sized enterprises. Secondly, I also pointed out that we have set up a tax system now that targets specifically the small and medium-sized enterprises that are struggling, that have deficits, because they can carry that deficit and get paid money already this year, if they have suffered losses. Thirdly, I believe that small and medium-sized enterprises are also concerned that we have a good welfare society. We see that there is actually a lot of entrepreneurship, a lot of businesses, that are established in Norway, not least because we have a good welfare society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e259	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e262	The most important thing we can do in a recession that we're in now is to invest in growth. Now we have to see, so that something can grow when the growing season comes, and it's definitely coming. When Prime Minister Stoltenberg resigned as Prime Minister last time, in 2001, the Governor of the Central Bank used the beginning of his speech immediately afterwards to say that the Norwegian economy is in bad shape. Unemployment increased, and there was record low start-up of new businesses. Growth is about having enough large and small enterprises that are profitable. The most important thing that can now be done is to put the seed into new businesses. Now we have record low start-up of new businesses again. I don't think, because there can be anyone else who can do something fast with the economic cycle, that the country needs a government shift because we need to invest in growth capacity, small businesses, and understand that it's about trust in such businesses and not about the suspicion that oozes of red-green governance today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e272	I am concerned not to suspect small and medium-sized enterprises. I am concerned to express a positive opinion about them, because they are therefore the backbone of the Norwegian economy and Norwegian employment. Once we have managed to halve unemployment, measured in the Labour Force Survey, from more than 100 000 in the autumn of 2005 to about half of 2008, this is due not least to growth in small and medium-sized enterprises. But now, unfortunately, the situation is more serious, because now unemployment is increasing. The main reason for this is that we are facing the strongest, the largest and the most serious setback in the international economy the world has seen since the 1930s. We're doing what we can through a lot of different tools to dampen and counteract it. But we're going to see increased leave, because some companies are going to have to cut down, quit people, and then our job is to create new businesses, new businesses, so that those who leave the job go as short as possible, and get a new job as soon as possible. The availability in Norway — new AKU numbers today — is above 3 pst. It's higher than what we're used to in Norway, but we're busy keeping it down.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e281	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e284	I agree with the representative of Sponheim that we need a new government. Erna Solberg started this round by inviting the Prime Minister to raise his eyes, look forward to the future. We are in a crisis situation how many people lose their jobs, where businesses go bankrupt, and it is necessary to have a discussion about how to get out of the crisis, how to make sure that businesses are stronger, more profitable, and jobs safer when we get out of the crisis. Instead of answering that challenge, we get a discussion about who has granted the most money in the past. That is not what this debate is about. But the fact that by 2020 we will be able to dispose of about 500 billion kroner – that is, five health budgets – gives us a unique opportunity to invest in roads, rail, knowledge and research and provide better framework conditions for businesses, so that they become more profitable. Does the Prime Minister initially agree that this money should be used to invest for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e295	The answer to that is yes. When I say yes, it is because of course I believe that this money should be invested for the future. But I don't promise tax havens. We can have a fairer tax system, we can re-distribute, but generally lower taxes make us get less money to invest in the future, whether it's school or roads or research. So I disagree with the Right opinion when they talk about investing for the future, because that means right tax havens. I'm not for that. I'm for more money. That's better. I notice that the Left and Right say they want a new government. It would have been more credible if you had agreed on what new government you wanted. I think you can first concentrate a little on that, and then you can come up with clear messages when you have given answers to that question. We will go to elections in autumn 2009 with a policy to invest in the future. We have shown for four years that we are able to do so, and we want to continue that policy after the 2009 elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e304	The President recalls that all speeches are addressed to the President and not to 'they'. Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e309	One of the major debates in many elections has been how different schools should be treated here in our country. A new government has often led to a new war — ever new rules and changing assumptions for this school battle. In May 2007, the Christian People's Party and the government parties made a compromise with slightly different premises – we to save the schools and the government to stop the commercial ones. We got into port, and we agreed. The Prime Minister, for example, stated that: that we now have a broad majority behind the law, so that these schools get more stable and predictable framework conditions. The same pronounced SV State Council. All the newspapers that the conciliators tend to read the most, such as the nations, the class struggle, our country and the daily newspaper, praised the job and stressed that this would now bring peace, and that it was good that this would last over time. But now one of the negotiators has broken the terms. SV, who also has the Council of State, will now suddenly put the whole agreement into play and stop these schools. In these days, parents receive answers as to whether their children are accommodated in a school that has chosen a different way of running. Can we now trust that these have a school to go to? Can the government now say that they want to keep that agreement? Does the Prime Minister guarantee that this will take place over time, and that the Government will not restrict schools on religious or pedagogical grounds?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e318	Yeah, we're on the deal. We are not going to experience in Norway that private schools are being banned or that schools with alternative lifestyles or alternative pedagogics are being refused to establish themselves. It's important, because I think it's an important value, an important quality of Norwegian society that there's room for diversity. I think diversity is about accepting what you like. I, for example, have enjoyed going to Steinerschole and am happy in that school. But it's essentially about accepting what you don't like, and understanding that someone likes what you don't like. I'm e.g. trailer of gay marriage. I think it's important that gay people can get married. I think it is great that we have female priests, but I fully accept there are congregations in Norway that do not want it, and they must be allowed not to want it. There may be aspects of both schools and communities I don't like, but part of the diversity is that they too are allowed to exist. That is why I believe what SV has decided to ban schools with alternative life views, i.e. that you should no longer have private schools with alternative pedagogics, is wrong. The same applies to the removal of State aid to non-equality associations. That's not the majority in the Storting. It's not going to be a majority for the Storting. I feel that this matter is really very clear. So there's one additional dimension that's complicated, and that makes me think we're going to have a conversation about the topic. We now see a debate in Oslo on how to avoid using the privatisation of schools. I'm an opponent of commercial private schools. There, together with the Christian People's Party, we have tightened the law – very well. But there is another dimension that is difficult, and it is: how are we to prevent the establishment of religious schools from hindering integration work? I'm just warning you that there's a more complicated debate that we have in Oslo.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e327	I interpret the answer as a guarantee that the agreement is in place and that the intention that it should be overdue is in place. I'm happy for the solitude. I trust the Prime Minister, but I think he has to understand that this has caused considerable unrest in students and parents, and not least in the schools themselves. Because the Council of State is from SV, it was a very important premise when we agreed to tighten up who would be allowed to start, that those who were approved would receive a generous and liberal treatment. We have experienced that things have been squirming, that they have been difficult to get through with these types of schools that we should allow. Can the Prime Minister now guarantee that these alternative, non-commercial schools will not be treated with suspicion, as if they were commercial, and that they will now be given the opportunity to be the alternative they have been permitted by law to be?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e334	Yes, of course, we should follow the agreement, and of course the law should be practiced. It is about providing state aid to schools with alternative life views or educational options, and the answer to that is yes. But the law also makes some demands, i.e. that you must not undermine the existing school structure and the kind of things you want to do. This still applies, and that means that you have to deal with each individual application. We now have an application from a school in Oslo that raises some questions about integration. So I'm saying there are some balances that have to be made, but the equation is on the right track. This government is for montesorriskols, stone schools and also schools with alternative life views.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e341	There will be four follow-up questions – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e344	This may be a contentious matter within the Government, as far as I can see, there are no representatives from SV in the Chamber today. They might have guessed that this could be a topic. What the SV national meeting really does is, of course, criticise its own State Council for having too kind a private school policy. Today, approx. 2.3 pst. Among students in private schools — and Stoltenberg itself is an example of the fact that it can deliver quite eloquent results. The Party is committed to diversity in the school sector as well. Then we hear that the Prime Minister disagrees and that the Workers' Party disagrees with the decision of the Swedish National Assembly. But nevertheless, the Council of Knowledge has cut off the knives, and he is the one who is fronting the matter in the media, and sometimes it appears in a way that he is speaking on behalf of the Government. Does the Prime Minister think it is a problem that we have a knowledge minister who criticises the Government's knowledge policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e358	First of all, I would like to thank the representative for thinking that students from Steinerschole can do well. Then I want to say that everyone who follows the media image, I believe that at the SV national meeting, a decision was made that SV's management, including the minister of knowledge, was opposed and voted against. That decision is not a decision on behalf of the Government. It is a decision on behalf of a majority of the SV National Assembly, to which the Government disagrees. The government has a different policy and has made a settlement here in the Stortinget based on a different policy, but as the management of SV was opposed, voted against and expressed it. That is why I can say with such great confidence that when a massive majority here in the Grand Duchy disagrees with that policy, and the Government disagrees with that policy, there must be no misunderstandings. The SV National Meeting has not adopted what is the Government's policy, and the Government's policy is determined. We are on the verge of a Christian People's Party on private schools.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e365	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e368	Most of what was adopted at the SV national meeting is, of course, contrary to the government's policy. I register that the Workers' Party has already been out and cancelled decisions both in relation to the health schools and in relation to withdrawing Norwegian soldiers from Afghanistan, and a few minutes ago the Prime Minister also cancelled the promise to withdraw the State aid from religious communities that do not do as SV says. We know that the government of Stoltenberg is part of – for over three and a half years – a policy that has nevertheless made it almost impossible to start and operate in this country. The question is: is there anything else in SV's program that the Prime Minister will cancel here and now, or does that mean that everything else in SV's program is negotiable in a new Soria Moria discussion?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e375	The starting point is that there is now national meeting time, and that all national meetings agree on what they call the party's whitewashed profile. We must respect that. I also think the bourgeois opposition parties are going to do that. Then you have to present alternatives based on that. What I think the three government parties have shown is that although there are three different parties and three different programs – that is why we are different parties – we are able to cooperate. And we're able to find solutions to the most fundamental issues of disagreement we've had, related to, for example. The EU, NATO and the EEA, but also the use of oil money and that kind of thing. We've put that in the bottom, and we agree on that. We were in 2005, and so are we in 2009. But then, of course, we're going to meet when we win the election and negotiate a new government platform. The difference between us and the opposition is that we agree on what kind of government we want, and which parties are going to sit in government. The opposition has not even agreed on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e382	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e385	I would recommend that the Prime Minister, who is also the prime minister of Oslo, visit the Oslo School. There the Prime Minister will meet a school system of 40 pst. language minorities – and who deal well with most of them. So before you begin to generalise that there may be a risk of integration, you should rather be concerned with what is good. If the Prime Minister is to take care of something, it is his closest collaborators who speak unpresidually and unpretentiously about religious concepts and other concepts. It is only necessary to say that the councilman Stoltenberg, who is Prime Minister, and who, together with me, represents this city, must have insight into the city and be happy about it. So to the question. How does the Prime Minister feel about having a government ally — and the Prime Minister has now commented and cancelled a country meeting decision — which, according to the evening post after their national meeting, has shown the ugly face of intolerance?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e392	I – and also all parties on Stortinget, with the exception of SV – disagree with the SV national meeting decision. It's me because I think it's a crazy way to organize a society not to allow diversity within religious communities, and not to allow to also use lifestyle schools and schools with alternative pedagogics to give a diverse society. That's what the majority of the Biggest has been saying for all these years. The Labour Party has meant it every year. We've had rock schools, montessori schools and Christian schools, even when the Workers' Party had a clean majority. So this isn't something we've been figuring out lately, it's something we've been thinking about for years. So that's the diversity I want. I want that tolerance. So the majority of SV's national meeting has a different assessment of where those boundaries and that balance go. We disagree, but I'm sure it won't be Norway's or the Government's policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e397	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e400	This spring we have experienced that the Government has stumbled into the debate on freedom of expression. They will basically punish religious criticism. On freedom of religion: they would basically punish opinions they don't like, economically. On the freedom of organisation: they will take the tax deduction from organisations with opinions they do not like — and now the right to parent. I remind the Prime Minister that this question is about human rights. It is not that the Prime Minister likes Steinerskolen and Dagfinn Høybrätten likes KG. Nor is it appropriate for Norwegian integration policies to follow these human rights. The Prime Minister should confirm here in Stortinget that he understands that Norway has obligations in relation to parental rights and in health schools with which we cannot simply scour and choose, either in national meetings or in a slightly loose way, that it may be necessary to follow this principle in some cases to be dealt with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e409	Of course, Norway will follow the international conventions to which we have joined – human rights. It's quite obvious. But sometimes it's against national decisions, because the Christian People's Party knows that very well. We have therefore been sentenced in the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg for violations of human rights by the large majority of the CRL in this House on the Stortinget. So it's not a foreign issue for the bulk of the population that you can make decisions that prove to be contrary to international conventions. We have been condemned in the past for a decision that most parties on the Stortinget voted in favour of. Otherwise, we have not wanted to restrict freedom of expression – on the contrary. This government proposed to remove the blasphemy paragraph, while the previous government wanted to continue the blasphemy paragraph. There is no doubt that we respect the conventions we have signed. We practice them. That is also one of the reasons why I am opposed to the decision taken by the SV National Meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e416	The size goes on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e420	As the Prime Minister says, we're in the national meeting season, and that's probably the start of a long campaign. I think we already notice a change of pace in Norwegian policy – naturally. That is what democracy is all about. The Prime Minister, not least when he became prime minister of this red-green majority, and many times later, stressed that a change of government does not give up, but small steps in a different direction, which over time can provide significant distances. I agree. That's why I think we need a different majority in Norway. At one point, it goes in a direction that I have to say, when you add up – it's been three and a half years, you see it in small steps, maybe at times benevolent – starting to become something that we in the left are startled by. The government is going in a direction that I want to characterize as equalization, suspicion of other people and minorities, and intolerance. I think we have to go in a direction towards diversity, trust that people can do something, without having to be careful in all respects, and tolerance. I'll give you some examples. Recently we have heard an increasing attack on cash support, which can be said a lot about. But the point is that there are fewer and fewer people who use it. The vast majority of people run the course that Jens Stoltenberg and I have gone, and want to go, namely with kindergarten and two family incomes. But most of us are happy that people have such a valve to live other lives. That's what the government is going to do. Another example is respect, which we've been through in this questionnaire, respect for the little troublemakers in business, who are met with suspicion. There is a lack of respect for and attack on the independence of non-governmental organisations. I am not going to talk about the ideological gust of the SV National Assembly, because they are in the pit of shame today, I understand, and I am not inside Parliament's Chamber. It is not least the slightly helpless, sloppy government in the matter of fundamental rights and principles. The election campaign has begun. For me, it's imperative that today's majority disappears. I don't want any more uniformity of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e429	I've been very clear in this room that I want a diverse society. I've been through several questioning hours, also related to some of the questions that are now being raised. It's e.g. not correctly that this government has attacked non-governmental organisations. Firstly, we have significantly increased support. Secondly, we have reviewed a decision in the Distribution Committee on the support for voluntary child and youth organisations, where the Distribution Committee – based on guidelines that were set up in a wide-ranging sample and which the Bondevik II government reduced – had called for non-discrimination in the case of trustees and organisations. Then the Divisional Committee followed those guidelines, and then in the Government we tried it because we thought it was undermining the independence of non-governmental organisations in relation to the handling of homosexuals. It's an example that this government stands by diversity, and that this government defends the right of organizations to be different, by trying to convince the Committee on Distribution to withdraw money support for the Salvation Army, which I think was the example. Then we have proposed to remove the blasphemic paragraph. It's a little strange to hear this from someone who put in a government that argued to keep it. When that government dealt with the suspension of the Freedom of Speech Commission and made a big deal about it, it argued in principle to keep the Blasphemy paragraph. We have argued in principle to remove it and proposed to remove it. In the case of cash support, this government has said in the Soria Moria statement that we will not liquidate it until we have full child care coverage, and then the parties have to make their program decisions. Then we're going to make it clear before the autumn elections what becomes the different parties' attitude to cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e438	Let me first say that there is a big difference between letting a sleeping paragraph continue to sleep and making a newly activated paragraph, where, fortunately, the government has come up with better thoughts after the road there had not looked quite neatly into the media. I understand that the Prime Minister is doing what he can to cover all these pages that are the small steps that I think are perfectly clearly documented. My list is long, and the Prime Minister will have it served in the election campaign. I promise. I understand that he's trying to cover it up – just as a capable finance minister, who's also SV leader, is trying to cast shadow over all the ideological slag she's leading. I will dry out the claim that the three government parties that Stoltenberg is running are in a way taking the worst of each other out. It's a social democratic template for how we're all going to live our lives, which he and his party want to tree down on us. We have an immature, premature SV that is once again exposed with its ideological slag – it is in and of itself an independent goal for the election struggle to get rid of – and a non-ideological centre party that seems to be in most cases just getting a few dollars for the farmers. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e445	It's obvious that it's the election campaign that's started. I think there's a suggestion here of things I don't think is right. Because it is not right that we are against a diverse society – on the contrary. In many areas, I have shown that we have provided more diversity, more value creation, and I want to pursue a policy for it. Second, it's that it doesn't just keep being against a government. You also have to be for something alternative. It is a challenge for the opposition to clarify what is the alternative. Thirdly, social democracy is about diversity. Social democracy is about us believing that the community is helping to create a diverse society. We believe that you have the good, strong community at the bottom, you can have diverse societies and creative people. I believe that the Norwegian, Nordic model of society shows that there are few communities that have such strong communities, with good public welfare systems, a good public community school and public pension schemes, and that it has created diversity in society. Safe people are awake, safe people are betting. That's why I think the community is making diversity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e454	There will be four follow-up questions – first Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e457	The big difference between today's government and the opposition is the belief that the individual can decide for himself, for his own life, and to a greater extent than what is being done today. A key is freedom of choice. In virtually no areas, the Government has chosen to facilitate increased freedom of choice. On the contrary. On the contrary, you talk about the community and present standard solutions that people most have to deal with, because the government believes and knows that it's the best for them. On the other hand, we have an important part of this, which is volunteering. Many people in Norway are engaged in volunteering. Yesterday, the Financial Committee gave an opinion on a proposal from the Christian People's Party, in which all the bourgeois parties concluded on proposals for a voluntary meeting, including: in the case of VAT and a number of other schemes, precisely in order to safeguard that part of Freedom Norway. The government has totally rejected these proposals. Why is it that the government that sits today knows better than most people and therefore does not facilitate freedom of choice? Why don't you meet Freedom Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e466	Firstly, I believe that having a good welfare society, strong Community solutions, gives more freedom of choice. The most important thing is the freedom to choose — whether you want to have a job or not, be at work or not. Unemployment limits people's freedom of choice, because you can't choose to live the life you want, go to the job you want to go to. When we put a massive effort into securing jobs, basically, it is to ensure one of the most important choices, namely the freedom to go to work, take a job, if you want to. Similarly, the most important thing we do to strengthen the freedom of choice of families with children is the possibility of having a kindergarten, so that you can choose it, if you want it. That's the way it is in a lot of other welfare areas. In addition, we would also like to open up the freedom to choose between different public services. It was the Labour Party in Oslo that introduced free home elections. It was the Workers' Party that introduced free hospital choice in its time, and there are many other examples of it. The most important thing is that the services are there. That is what guarantees freedom of choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e475	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e478	In all the well-being of solving problems for people, who have the Norwegian left side, they systematically choose to attack it that people can choose things other than the left side want people to choose. It is symptomatic of many of the ideological debates we have, that the Norwegian left side has a deep mistrust that people can make elections on their own behalf. This is the case with the cash support. It's about school. Yes, it's also going to apply to kindergartens gradually, because the government has promoted a proposal that's going to squander private kindergartens in the future. However, in some areas it also appears that this process contributes to a deterioration in the welfare of Norway. It is currently helping to increase the number of people in health queues. In the context of saying that you have to have a better public system, you get more people in health queues and a more class-based health system, where those who can afford to buy themselves out of line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e485	I believe that the most important contribution to human freedom in this country and over the last century has been the construction of the Norwegian welfare community. The Norwegian model has given an incredible number of people freedom, and it is a very fundamental understanding that you have the freedom to avoid experiencing unemployment, the freedom to care for your children and the freedom to go to school. There are very important freedoms that have been developed through the welfare community. It is not true that there has been a longer health queue because private hospital services have been closed. It is true that there has been a slight decrease in the use of private hospitals, but the rise in public hospitals and hospital activity has been greater. Overall, more treatment is now available than in 2005. There are several people who are being treated in hospitals. The sum of public and private has increased the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e492	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e496	What this round shows is that the Prime Minister appeals to celebrations and spells when he is challenged by fundamental questions about the freedom of choice of people in this country. I think I would remind the Prime Minister that in the election campaign before this big period he went to frontal attacks on people's freedom to choose the form of care for their own children, under the following punch line: We cannot premise those we believe have chosen incorrectly. I think it answers the whole question that was asked by the representative Sponheim. We know the loop at the same time, regardless of party speeches. What shines through in this government's policy is that you want to narrow the freedom of choice, because you know better than most people how to set up their lives. We also see this in the case of voluntary organisations, as the government has promised exemption from VAT. But you don't follow it up in practice, and you tune it down into the Storting these days.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e503	Let me just dement that quote, because it has persecuted me for many, many years that I have said that you should not premise those who have chosen the wrong one.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e508	That's what the Prime Minister said.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e513	First of all, I don't think I've ever said that. But if I have said that, I don't mean it, then it's wrong to say it. It's such quotes that just live their own lives. I don't know exactly where it appeared, but I can take a strong distance from what I've never said, and I've said it, I'm still taking a distance from it. So it's completely wrong. But when that is said, I would say that the whole discussion about cash support has been a different discussion, namely a discussion about how to provide support for families with children. I am a strong supporter of families with children, both in the form of services and kindergartens and in the form of cash. But I have thought that it was the wrong device to give the support only on the condition that you do not have children in kindergarten. We have many other transfer schemes for families with children, which do not make it a condition that we do not make use of a public offer. I still believe that this is a crucial aspect of the cash support.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e520	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e523	On the 50th anniversary, the Prime Minister received many well-deserved favors. But he also got the comment that he might not be the great ideologist. It's this question that comes up today, when you get to all the details, because there's actually ideology in the details as well. The Prime Minister said that support for non-governmental organisations has increased. Yes, it's increased. But it does so by preventing the free movement of income, by preventing the objective support schemes, and rather by going in and supporting exactly what you like. You get a sentence against yourself for a violation of human rights, for a violation of freedom of expression, and you go in and you meet it with the intensification of freedom of expression in the editor's poster. And when you do a big rock of museums in this city, you do it by not wanting to debate, and you do it by not wanting to hear the National Assembly. Why are inequalities and different opinions so incredibly painful to this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e530	First, it's a paradox, as I see it, that we're now criticized for not accepting different opinions, while I'm usually standing here and being criticized for having too many different opinions. Both parts can't possibly be true at the same time. But when that is said, I would say that I am in favour of debate, and I am in favour of discussion. I'm also concerned with ideological questions. I am pleased with all the good words the opposition gave me on my 50th birthday. I think the words were more well-worded on 16 March than they are today, but that's the way it is! So I just want to stress that we have given increased support to non-governmental organisations. We're open to looking at how we can compensate for VAT in some way. The non-governmental organizations themselves say that it's about $1 billion. We have said that we are willing to increase the aid by that amount. What we're now discussing is how we're going to give increased support to non-governmental organisations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e539	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e542	Politicians are escalating. We will see that later today when we get a demonstration outside the Size. Police officers from all parts of the country have traveled to Oslo to document and tell us how problematic it is within the Norwegian police force. It is in stark contrast to what the Prime Minister said on 22 March, when the Prime Minister almost said that there is full control within the police, but then by pointing out what the Government has actually done. I had hoped that today the Prime Minister could see a little ahead instead of pointing to what the Government has done. The situation is at least that in 2008, the police committed 2 500 cases with a known perpetrator, who should have resulted in prison. Almost 2,000 offences were committed where the perpetrator was known, which should have resulted in fines or other penalties. Police statistics now also show that there are major challenges to reporting issues in the near future. The newspapers today are also full of issues about raids, raids, etc. in Norway. My question to the Prime Minister is: When the police today show their arrogance in the form of a demonstration in front of the Grand Duchy, is it perhaps time for the Government to take this up and have a dialogue with the police instead of increasing the level of conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e551	I am at any time prepared to look forward, as the representative Sandberg says, in terms of the need to bet on fighting crime. We are committed to both combating crime, crime itself, police and prison, and combating the causes of crime. Crime is very serious. It's a very serious social sin. It hits a lot of people. It affects the victims, but it also affects all those who feel insecure. And those who experience being robbed, those who experience an invasion, feel like a very strong intrusion – far beyond the material wallpaper that ran, the burglary, or whatever it might be, is causing them. So crime is a very serious social sin. That's why it has to be mobilized. That is why it is also being mobilised against crime. As far as the police are concerned, the police have been significantly strengthened in recent years, and we want to continue to strengthen the police. Only this year do we significantly increase police efforts, with more than 700 new annual works – partly by providing more money, and partly by getting 450 new civil servants in the police force, enabling police officers to do police work. There is a historic commitment to the police, which is also followed up by the fact that we have almost doubled the admission to the Police College compared to the level that was when we had the progress party-supported Bondevik II government. Then you put significantly less effort on the police than what we are doing now. We're dedicated to improving the research methods. That's why we're now in the middle of a significantly larger bet on the DNA register and taking DNA samples, which increase the clearance rate. We are also concerned that those who have done something wrong will be punished, and that the punishment will be executed. When we took over after the advance party-supported Bondevik II government, the payroll queue was about 3,000. It's greatly reduced, to about 400, and we're going to continue to bet on reducing it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e562	I record that even though the Prime Minister has been 50 years old, he is still at a level where he owes no responsibility to anyone else. I note that the Prime Minister is answering the exact same thing today that has done for six months, that you have done enough. Now the situation is that the process time increases, the percentage of information goes down. In fact, the police have offered to increase their working week by two and a half hours, which is equivalent to 500 years of work. This only costs $300 million. kr. That rejects the Government, I understand. This is not the case because you think you've done enough. I think that's a little strange, because if you had really done enough and the measures the Prime Minister refers to had been satisfactory, I don't understand why hundreds of police officers and women travel to Oslo to tell the Stortinget and the Government that there's a crisis within the police. Does the Prime Minister really think that these police officers and women are wrong?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e570	That would be an advantage for the debate on the representative Sandberg referred me precisely. I haven't said we've done enough. I have said that we have done significantly more than the previous government, supported by the Progress Party. I'm a little tired of hearing that the Progress Party says we're doing so little. We're doing more than what they provided when they supported the previous government. So I pointed out what we've done, and I said we'll do more of that. We're going to continue to strengthen the police, because there's still a lot of work to be done. We will continue to improve research methods, including: Through the introduction of more DNA registration, and we're going to continue building down the atoning queues, because it's important that those who have done something wrong are punishing themselves. In terms of terms and conditions of employment, we have a very good tradition in this country so that we do not engage in wage negotiations either in the Stortinget or in the general political debate. It belongs in tariff negotiations, wage negotiations, and police working hours are part of the issues raised in negotiations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e579	As a result of time, there will be only one follow-up question – Elisabeth Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e582	When thousands of police today gather in Oslo, it's not to salute the Government. You can only wonder what kind of Baluba Workers' Party would do if it was the Right who, in government, had outrun the police's trade unions, violated the rules of the labour market, and established a new working-time agreement through dictatorship. Does the Prime Minister realize that the police are upset about the Red-Green Government's attack on professional rights? And does the Prime Minister realize that the police feel that they have failed by a Minister of Justice who has kept the police talking and not followed up the promised budget promise in 2008 – the year that would be the year of the police?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e587	We have not been running with what Aspaker says, that is to say talk. We've done things. I can repeat the list. I have the impression that – what to say – patience has been put to the test a little bit in order to hear again all the amazing things this government has done. But it's like we've put a lot more emphasis on the police, put in many more posts, almost doubled the recording at the Police College and only this year provided about 700 new positions in the police. It's concrete action to strengthen the police, and it's very important. In terms of pay and working conditions, I believe it belongs in negotiations. When it comes to the regulations we make, we do it because the police are in a special position, and then we say compensation for that is to be negotiated.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e594	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e597	The Prime Minister has probably recorded that the Minister of Health has started a quite comprehensive debate on Norwegian drug addiction. During the course of the year, the director of the State Health Authority stated in the news that an unknown number of offences are occurring in this area every day by refusing such treatment to patients who have the legal right to receive treatment in order to become drug free. I wrote a letter to the Minister of Health on behalf of the Højres Storingsgruppe in mid-February and asked the Minister of Health to give the Stortinget a statement that would allow the Stortinget to participate in the debate. The Prime Minister said he was a member of the debate. I assume that means that he is also a member of the debate in Stortinget. The Health Minister replied after three weeks that he did not want to give the Storting any explanation, among others. With reference to the fact that he has reduced a sample — the Prime Minister is also well aware of this. At the same time, the Minister for Health has answered all the questions in the last year, referring to the fact that the response to the increasing health queues, the increasing waiting times, the dramatic number of Corridor Asians — in short, all problems — will be presented to the Stortinge in the form of a reform in April. Now, two weeks ago, there was a notice that the Storting will not receive anything in April. On the other hand, Stortinget will receive a big message – of all things – in June, i.e. Right at the moment when the size falls apart after the end of the four-year period. It is the strangest time I think some government has delivered a big message to Stortinget. [[The President cut off]] Does this mean that the Government considers
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e606	The government has done a lot both in the field of drugs and in the field of health during the four-year period we have been sitting. We've reinforced our efforts, we've implemented the psychiatry escalation plan, we've stepped up in a rush, and we've made major and demanding structural changes, for example. a contraction of health south-east. We have. It has been presented to the Stortinget, it has been debated in Stortinget, and it has been part of the work that has been carried out. So we're approaching the end of a big period. Then a government can think that no, now we kind of go in for landing; now there's nothing more to put forward and something more to do. But that's not how this government thinks. This government has made a lot of progress, even though we've left behind the first four-year period. That's why we have the ambition to present things that point inwards in the next period, beyond this period. This means that we believe that it is useful to present a big message on what we think about the new major health reform, the cooperation reform, which we intend to implement in the coming years. It's going to take time, it's going to be a lot of challenges, but we think it's important that the government clarify its position. Then the voters can decide on it, along with many other things, in choices. Then the government has a clear position, a clear position, and then we have shown that we also have ambitions for the next big period. That's why we're submitting that big message.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e613	I perceive that the Prime Minister has now released the cat from the bag, namely that this big message is intended for use in the election campaign, and it has been carefully chosen to time it so that the Storting should be cut off from the possibility of even getting involved with it. I also interpret the Minister of Health's refusal of the request to give the Storting an opportunity to intervene with what the Government is doing with regard to the provision of drugs in this country. The question I'm really asking the Prime Minister is, how do you interpret the lines of this, namely, that you carefully try to avoid the Storting getting involved with what the Government is doing? Is it to be interpreted so that this is just an expression that this government, because it has a majority behind it in the Stortinget, considers Stortinget to be a superfluous part of the Norwegian government? Or is this an active line to prevent the Storing from interfering with what the Government is doing?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e620	The government believes that the Stortinget is an important part of the Norwegian Government. The government believes that the Storting is a crucial part of our democracy, and we are concerned that the Storing should fulfill the tasks and do the things that the Storing is supposed to do. This means, for example: the adoption of laws, which means, for example: to adopt appropriations. For this reason, in all the different areas – in the rush, in the hospital, in the psychiatry – many documents have been presented, on the one hand, their own documents and, on the other, budgetary documents, which have given the Storting ample opportunity to debate, discuss and adjust what has been presented. But then we warn that we also want to do it in the next big period, with new measures, and then we present a big message about the interaction reform, to clarify what is the Government's vision and ideas of that reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e625	There will be follow-up questions – Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e628	I fully agree with what the Prime Minister said in his first reply to the Representative for Wage, that the Government has made a lot of progress, especially in the area of health. The big problem is that there is also a lack of parallel decision-making in this field. Every time problems are raised in the Stortinget as a result of the approaching of 290 000 in health queues, and the fact that you do not actually deliver in the rehabilitation field, the Minister of Health comes on the track and says that we have now reduced a sample and are going to provide an interaction message in June, and then we are going to get the answer to that. Now that 4,000 people are in line and are waiting in the hospital to try and get out of bed, the Minister of Health responds to a selection. That is, it's going to be another year before we get some answer to how these people are going to get help. In addition, the Prime Minister himself has said that there will be 10,000 new hands in the care of the elderly, and the municipality's central association says it is currently less than 5,000.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e638	First, in the case of new annual works, we have promised 10,000 more annual works of care and care. That's what the documents say, that's what the Soria Moria statement says, and that's what all the documents we have published on this matter say. Then I may have used the term care for the elderly in some debates. But everyone who sees what we've written, and what I've written, knows that we're talking about care and care. That's the one. The other one's a rush. Fortunately, the Minister of Health has done much more than reduce a sample. He has significantly increased his efforts in several budgets in the field of drug care. At the latest when he reduced the sample and announced that we should have a separate review – with excellent members, also from Stortinget – he said that we should grant 60 million. To strengthen the lowthreshold provision of drug users. Once again, it is a combination of implementing concrete things — strengthening care and increasing treatment provision — and seeing that we need a more fundamental debate on the correctness of the device.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e645	So the oral questioning process is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e650	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 3 and 4 from the representatives of Borghild Tenden and Per Roar Bredvold, respectively, to the Minister for Transport, were answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has left. Questions 5 and 6 from the representatives of Torbjørn Andersen and Gunnar Gundersen, respectively, to the Minister for Transport, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 9, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Renewal and Administration, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative of Dagrun Eriksen to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Inclusion, who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e665	We go to question 1, as usual from the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e671	My question to the Minister of Finance is this: «Legal assistance costs to ensure taxable profit are deductible in addition to the minimum deduction only when the costs are not considered to be incurred in securing minimum deductions based on employee income. This means that legal costs to ensure disputed remuneration are not deductible, which means that employee’s claims are largely borne by tax and attorney’s fees. Will the State Council consider changes in the rules for employees in pay disputes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e680	Costs incurred in acquiring, maintaining or securing taxable profit may be deducted from general income. The deduction of labour-related expenses is initially granted as a minimum deduction. Minimum deduction is a standardised deduction which shall include the different deductions from the taxable persons relating to labour income. The minimum deduction means that employees may claim a deduction from labour income of a certain amount, regardless of the actual cost of labour income. Therefore, they do not need to demonstrate their actual costs. This implies a simplification of the general rules on deduction. If the actual costs which the minimum deduction is intended to cover exceed the minimum deduction, the taxpayer may instead charge the actual costs. In addition to simplifying the general rules on deduction, the minimum deduction also has a policy function for distribution. It contributes to creating a certain progressive effect within the otherwise proportional general income tax because the minimum deduction has a relatively greater effect on lower income than on higher income. Legal assistance costs are deductible in line with other costs incurred in acquiring, maintaining or securing taxable profit. However, when costs relate to labour income, the minimum deduction will replace the direct deduction. This means that the employee cannot claim a deduction from the actual cost of the minimum deduction. If the actual costs of legal assistance, together with the employee's other costs relating to labour income, exceed the minimum deduction, taxpayers may instead deduct their actual costs. The economic reality of this is that the taxpayer receives only an effective deduction of costs in excess of the minimum deduction. However, this is not particularly true for legal costs in labour disputes, but generally applies to employee service costs. The considerations behind the minimum deduction indicate that labour income costs are generally covered by this standard deduction. Therefore, only very limited derogations have been made from this point of view. The main exception concerns the costs of weekly commuting, etc. I do not have concrete plans to propose granting a right of deduction for specified types of work-related costs, other than the minimum deduction. Such costs should continue to be included in the minimum deduction and should be deducted only if they exceed the minimum deduction. This also applies to the deduction of legal assistance for the purpose of securing pay claims. In cases where the employee obtains his or her claim for taxable remuneration or compensation, he or she will often also be covered by the employer in whole or in part of his or her costs. By means of the so-called net method, this coverage can be applied against costs and thus become effectively tax-free, without reducing the minimum deduction. It is only costs that the worker himself must cover, which fall under the deduction limit as a result of the minimum deduction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e693	Let me first of all thank the Minister of Finance for her thorough review of the many good qualities of the minimum deduction. Let me also say that I wish that maybe she would look at those qualities in a different way when we discuss in other contexts the size of the minimum deduction, which the Right recently has often suggested to increase for several reasons, partly to get people to work, but also to increase purchasing power. It's a discussion we've had against this with interest rate reductions, and what gives the most effect. As far as the question is concerned, I have seen the clear message from the Minister of Finance, that she will not do anything about this. I think it's a little bad that she won't consider it, because these are very special circumstances. And in the time we go into, I don't ignore that this can become more topical than it has been.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e700	I believe I have given a review of how the current tax system works, and what the minimum deduction should cover. If you have actual labour costs and labour income in excess of the minimum deduction, you have to attach documentation of these costs. The question that fleet travels is just about this. As for the general discussion of the size of the minimum deduction, I am pleased that our government has increased the minimum deduction. There has been an important part of a significant redistribution that has been achieved by the red-green government, as opposed to the main profile of the tax proposals of the Right and the other bourgeois parties, which are about removing, for example, the tax proposals of the Right and the other bourgeois parties. the wealth tax, which would be a gigantic gift package for the most wealthy people in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e707	In terms of fiscal policy allocations, I would recommend that the Minister of Finance read our alternative budget better, because we have always been in favour of providing better conditions for those with lower and medium incomes, including by increasing the minimum deduction. In addition, we will reduce the wealth tax in order to improve companies' lives. There's no contradiction between the two things. I just want to repeat that I hear the answer. However, it is still a fact that those who come into this situation can experience cases where they do not get full coverage for their expenses — of course, slightly depending on where the level of expenditure on legal assistance remains.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e714	I have gone through the legislation on minimum deductions and any documentation of costs in addition to that. But just a small line to the question: As far as the tax profile is concerned, it is the sum of the proposals from the Right that show what kind of profile the Right has in the distribution policy. It's a clear profile, going the opposite of what the red-green government has achieved in these four years, which is a significant redistribution for those who have low and medium incomes, and for those who have low wealth. 400000 people who paid taxes on wealth in 2005 are now free to pay taxes on wealth. An additional half a million have been reduced in taxes on wealth, because we've closed gaps on top, which means that some zero-taxors have actually had to start paying taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e724	«While several banks have benefited from having Community funds made available, bonuses are paid to brokers who surpass what most have imagination to imagine. What is the Council of State's view on this, and what means will be considered to overcome this obscurity?'
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e731	I am very happy to have this question, because I think the representative Syversen is addressing something that is very important and important. He and I agree that both the pay and bonus systems in the brokerage industry in some cases far exceed what can be seen as a healthy and well-earned remuneration of labour. The system of exchange of sovereign debt, which we adopted last year, did not impose any direct demands on bank directors. It was because the scheme was on purely market terms. There are no other countries that have made the kind of demands associated with that scheme. In the case of the State Financial Fund, we are in a different situation, because there is a system that involves State aid. There is legal state aid, but there are very clear limits on the remuneration and remuneration of senior management. Freezing wages and salaries are required for 2009 and 2010 and no bonus payments for 2009 and 2010; otherwise, the terms and conditions for additional management salaries are to be clarified in the agreements made with the State Financial Fund. This applies to senior executives with an agreed fixed salary of 1.5 million. kr and over. As I have previously stated in the public debate, I believe that it is also necessary for the remuneration of the brokers – those who are not part of the management of the banks – to see what kind of development they have had in bonuses. My general opinion is that the remuneration in this area is, in fact, very high in relation to what you might think is a reasonable remuneration. I believe that in the wake of the financial crisis, we will have a different focus on this. This too will be embedded in the part of cost control that banks agreeing with the financial fund will also be required. I have previously announced that I intend to put down a commission that will review different aspects of the financial crisis. I believe that the theme of what kind of incentive schemes make sense for the future should be included in the mandate for this selection, because, in many cases, in addition to having such huge bonuses, the bonus scheme has been such that it encourages a short-term perspective. It focuses on short-term returns, because those who participate in these markets themselves have personal gains. So that's a question that I think we have to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e749	I share a lot of the general starting point that the Council of State presented. I choose to believe that when the concrete agreements are to be made with the banks that choose to take advantage of the opportunities of the financial fund that are established, this will also be made at the broker level. So my question is related to the transparency of the brokers' wages and other bonus payments. The Council of State itself has been very high in terms of private individuals paying bonuses at a level that we agree on is out of all reasonableness and called for transparency in some way. How does the Council of State feel about the same transparency with regard to government pension fund bonuses?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e756	Let me first make it clear that the specific requirements of the State Financial Fund relate to senior staff. The specific requirements for bonus schemes for other employees in the banks concerned are part of the bank's liability. However, with regard to the cost control that is also going to be a topic in relation to banks included in agreements with the State Financial Fund, I think it is a relevant question of what level you put on. I have not – and I think we would be far inside what would be the protection of the individual, ordinary employee of a bank – that the individual's remuneration or bonuses should be published. What I've been saying is that bank customers should have a much greater chance of thinking about what is the bank's pay policy, when they're going to choose a bank, because I'm absolutely sure that a lot of banking customers will pay attention to it. In the case of the State pension fund, I believe the same thing. We've published the manager's salary. With regard to the guidelines on how to handle bonuses and other remuneration for the brokers, they are also public.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e765	It is not likely that the State pension fund, through its active management, suffered a painful loss for 2008. Of course, many ask themselves how it may be possible in this context that bonuses are paid for a government that, overall, when it has been active, produce a worse result than if one had passively followed the markets. It is also the case that the Ministry of Finance has an agreement with the Bank of Norway, which is the basis of the administration of the pension fund. Will the State Council look at any changes to that agreement to ensure that there is better consistency between the overall profit or loss that the fund can present and the remuneration and bonuses that each individual receives?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e770	It's a short time until I'm going to present a comprehensive paper on the State pension fund. I am very concerned that there should be more transparency and publicity about issues relating to the State pension fund. That is why I introduced that we report to Stortinget in a separate message once a year. In the past, this was part of the national budget, and thus actually drowned the discussion of a great fortune that we manage in common, often in the draft struggle for the state budget. Now the whole Storting is invited to join and discuss the level of publicity, what are the causes of the loss associated with the active administration, how to limit this type of loss and better risk management in the future, and what kind of policies you should have in relation to bonuses and rewards. I believe that this is a very important and important debate. I would like to invite the Storting to join those discussions, because we manage people's savings equivalent to a Norwegian gross domestic product. It's very important that the whole Biggest is behind the way we manage them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e778	This question, from the representative Borghild Tenden to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e781	‘An article in the Evening Post states that a cost impact on the Ring 3 Wolfen-Sinsen project may result in increased tolling costs for people passing the bombing in Oslo and Akershus. It's of national importance that we have a well-functioning role that takes away traffic around the capital. What is the cost increase of Ring 3 Ulven–Sinsen, what is the reason for the cost gap, and will the Council of State help to cover the increased costs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e788	Preparatory work on the project rv. 150 wolf split – Sinsen started in February 2005. In the spring of 2006, the State Road Administration cancelled the tender for the tunnel construction price due to significantly higher offers than expected. The project was then reprojected and revised, cf. St. pp. No 40 for 2007-2008, About Oslopackak 3 step 1. Although the project was simplified and a number of cost-reduction measures were implemented, the governance framework increased by about 800 million. kr. Work started on the project in 2008 and it is expected that the project will be opened up to traffic in 2013. It is currently used in excess of NOK 1 billion on the project, and in addition, contracts have been signed for approximately SEK 780 million. kr. KS2 has been implemented twice on the project – before and after the redesign. The State Road Service and the KS2 consultants have agreed on the level of the cost of the project. However, in the autumn of 2008, the Road Administration registered higher costs than expected in three major contracts. The State Road Service has therefore re-examined a thorough review of the cost estimate and analysis of the cause of the cost increase. The final cost forecast for the project is 3690 million. kr, in 2009-krona. This increases by about 260 million. kr in relation to the revised cost framework for the project, cf. referred to as St.prp. No 40 for 2007-2008. Compared to the revised governance framework, the increase is approximately 650 million. kr. Clean-up work on today's Ring 3 has been taken out of the project to reduce costs. Estimates of residual needs per year 1 January 2010 is about NOK 2.4 billion. The analysis shows that the main reason for the cost increase is the higher price level of contractors and higher expropriation costs than expected. In addition, minor changes to the project and longer construction time than initially planned lead to an increase in costs. No decision has been taken on how to finance the increase in costs. The economic framework for Oslopackak 3 is given in St.meld. No 17 for 2008-2009, About Oslopackak 3 steps 2. Saka will be discussed with the Oslopack 3 Steering Group before the Minister for Transport returns to Stortinget with proposals on how to finance the increase in costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e803	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The background to this question is the concern that is related to precisely Oslopackakt3 and that it is simply going to come out wrong from the start. Initially, the red-green government, as the Left sees it, takes little account of the challenges facing our biggest cities. Does the Council of State understand the concerns of our cities – in this case the capital and the challenges we face in connection with Oslopackak 3?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e810	No, I do not understand the claim that this government does not take account of the largest cities, when this government, as the first government in almost all that time, has implemented the national transport plan and the level that lies there, unlike, for example. the government that the party Borghild Tende represents did for a short time. This means that the promises made in relation to the big cities have been delivered. At the same time, we are now laying new ambitious plans for how to develop transport and communication in the major cities in the future. The proposal for a national transport plan presented very recently is a historical plan to address the challenges of communication in the future, for example: as regards train connections. I can mention the link Oslo-Ski as an example of a long-awaited solution, and a project with which there has been a desire to get something done, and which is now almost said on rails. We see that the sum contained in the national transport plan causes us to solve the problem in a completely different way than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e817	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It was just the NTP I was thinking about when I said that someone didn't take into account the challenges in our big cities. But now leave it. We have the opportunity to discuss that later. In fact, the toll tariffs around Oslo are increasing. In the western region, there are even two toll collection operations. When I'm at local annual meetings, people say they're a little surprised that fares are rising without seeing any results. Will the Council of State ensure full transparency, and it quickly, about what the money is going to do? The buses are as bulky as they were, the queues are as big, and you pay a lot in tolls around Oslo. What we expect now is full transparency about what that money actually goes to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e826	I am absolutely sure that the Minister for Transport wants a corresponding transparency in relation to money use. There have been some stories related to toll companies and resource use within companies. We have all seen the reactions of the Minister of Transport to that – a wish that just transparency is what should apply. So I think I can assure the representative that in time, the Minister of Transport will also be focused on transparency, and that users and residents will know what toll funding is going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e834	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has been away.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e837	I have wanted to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions, but they are answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘According to the National Transport Plan, it may take 10 years for the Slomarka–Kongswinger route on Route 2 in Hedmark to be completed. The Nybakk–Slomarka line is mentioned with only two lines. It creates great frustration that such an important path does not become a higher priority. What will the Council of State do to complete this whole Nybakk–Kongswinger route as soon as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e846	First stage of rv. 2 Klöfta–Kongswinger, the route Klöfta–Nybakk, was opened for traffic in October 2007. As a second stage of development, it is planned to extend the 16 km stretch from Kurudsand in Kongsvinger to Slomarka in South Odal, which is 3.5 km east of Skarnes. The build-up has been delayed as a result of a conflict over the trasé elections. Following a number of questions on the validity of the proceedings concerning the work of the Municipal Council and subsequent opposition cases, the Ministry of the Environment concluded in February 2007 that the decision on the 2003 objection was valid. After this, the State Road Administration has clarified road standards, it has been concluded with a four-field road with a width of 16.5 m, and has developed control plans after the so-called Nord alternative. The regulatory work has taken a long time, including: because of clarifications in relation to the Cultural Memory Act. The regulatory plans for the second stage have been adopted in South Odal and Kongsvinger municipalities. External quality assurance of cost estimates, known as KS2, and local policy consideration of toll planning proposals for the project are now to be carried out. The Swedish Road Administration states that the basic material for KS2 will be sent to the Ministry of Transport in spring 2009. In St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009, National Transport Plan 2010–2019, 300 million have been proposed. kr in State resources for the route Kongsvinger-Slomarka in the first four-year period and 380 million. kr in the last six years. Subject to local political support for a partial toll financing scheme for the project, the Ministry of Transport intends to present the matter to the Stortinget during the autumn of 2009. There is no room for prioritisation of government funds for the Slomarka-Nybakk route in the first four years. The development of this route therefore needs to be considered in the context of the next revision of the national transport plan, for the period 2014 to 2023.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e859	I thank the Council of State for a comprehensive and good answer to my question. But what's left is that it can take ten years for this distance to end. It is clear that for those who use this route – and this is a road used by many, including many heavy vehicles, which create some accidents and near-accident accidents – and for those who live right by this road, there is a great need for the road to be good. We're happy with the distance that's being completed in a few years. What we're not happy about is that more than half of the amount is toll-financed, and of the total, approx. $1.6 billion to $1.7 billion, the drivers have to pay $957 million. kr. Is there no possibility that the whole route could be completed faster than in 10 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e866	I think the representative in an illustrative and good way describes why it is important to raise the transport sector in the future, why it is important in the national transport plan now to put an ambition higher than what has been done in the past in terms of infrastructure development in our country. There is no doubt that the description given by the representative of this route is a description that we will also recognise from many other places in the country, and that is correct in terms of how the local population feels to have a path on which they want the standard to be improved. So I think what we're doing now is also a contribution to the roads that are not within the transport plan, because we're getting closer to solutions on those roads that aren't prioritised in the first part of the period. So the answer to the question is, as I said in my first post, that in what is now within the first four-year period, there are other sections that are prioritised. But that of course also means that we're approaching the distance that the representative here is taking up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e873	I thank you for your answer. And what's a little bit of a worry about is that it's not going to be any of the last distance. As I said, we're very happy with what's now happening to the first distance, that it ends and it's rigged down. If it is to be rigged again, of course, it costs a lot of money, and it takes a lot of time. That's why we wanted it to be a whole expansion of this line, and that we could be sure of it. It had also created predictability for those operating in this industry, for it is clear that there is a lot of uncertainty about this. If we had got an entire extension, it would have gone faster, it would have been cheaper, and it would have been good both for those who need a new road, and not least for those who are going to build this road. Could the council also say something about this: that we do it as cheap and easy as possible by rigging up and then finishing up, and then we can rig down and start somewhere else?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e882	What I know is that the Minister for Transport is concerned about the issues that the representative raises about getting the maximum effect of travel money in this country, and that she has also seen examples of just that with the dismantling of facilities for later uplifting again, which has not been appropriate. So I feel confident that it has also been part of the assessment in relation to the priorities that have been made, and what has been put into place in the first part of the National Transport Plan 2010-2019. So now that we're doing so much on this important road section, I think it's a pleasure for the residents along the remaining part, and it also increases the possibility that you can get started on this project, which I fully understand that the local people are engaged in.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e892	From the representative Torbjørn Andersen to the Minister for Transport: ‘The proposal for the National Transport Plan 2010-2019 states that it is appropriate to give priority to E18 on the Tvedestrand-Arendal route in East Agder, subject to toll financing. The wording of the transport plan has created enormous expectations throughout the county. Assuming rapid local planning and trajectory, when the Council of State considers that the start of work on the Tvedestrand-Arendal road section can be started at the earliest, and how much State funding does the Council of State think it can be expected for the project?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e903	From the representative of Gunnar Gundersen to the Minister for Transport: ‘The recently submitted national transport plan states that E6 between Memorysund and Creatorud will start during the first planned period and end at the latest. This means that this route will be completed in 2015 at the earliest. This was a stretch that was hoped to be completed in 2011 until December 2008. We are talking here about one of the most traffic and accident-affected sections in the country with vital importance for large parts of the country. What is the reason why the project is delayed for so long?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e911	These questions have been postponed until the next question time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e918	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘Capio Anorexia Centres have a high available capacity as a result of not being under free hospital choice. The Health and Welfare Committee has entered the budget at the beginning of the year. S. No 11 for 2008-2009 stated that this centre should be an offer for patients across the country. In Dagsnytt 18th of February 25th, the mayor Olav Gunnar Ballo, on behalf of the Government, promised that the offer would be available under free hospital choice if necessary, but patients are still waiting. What has the Council of State done to follow up this matter, and when will patients be entitled to choose a treatment site?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e927	As we are all familiar with, patients in Norway have the right to choose which hospital they want to be treated for. It follows from the Patient Rights Act. In addition to hospitals, the scheme also includes district psychiatric centres and institutions providing multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug abuse. In order for private hospitals to be subject to the free hospital choice scheme, there is an additional condition that they have an agreement with one or more regional health establishments. Patients with eating disorders have the same rights under the Patient Rights Act as other patients, including the right to free choice of hospitals. Capio Anorexia Center in Fredrikstad is a private health institution that operates interdisciplinary treatment of people with eating disorders who are not considered hospital establishments, and the centre cannot naturally be defined as a hospital either. This means that this is not a health institution for which patients can freely choose according to the law. There are many other good health services which are not hospitals, district psychiatric centres or which provide interdisciplinary specialised treatment for drug abuse. These health institutions also do not fall under the free choice of hospitals under the Patient Rights Act. An extension of the scheme to include those health institutions will at least require a legislative amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e936	I thank you for your answer. Capio has now been invited to apply for free hospitalization and have been denied it a few times. I want to make a few quotes from the program News 18. Quotes from Olav Gunnar Ballo. He says, ‘ there has been a continuing involvement also from the government parties in the Storting to use Capio in full. [[...]] Unfortunately, it is wrong in the department that they do not follow up on what a unanimous bigotry has said, and it should be a clear signal from the Stortinget that here one expects the department to clean up in such a way that Capio is used in full, and it is not the department that decides that question, it is actually the Storting that does.’ Another quote is: ‘If it is technically necessary for an institution to be fully used to choose it, you choose it.’ — That is, Capio should be admitted to free hospital choice. [[...]] ‘As late as today, we have had a round of government parties against the department in this case, and this matter has to be resolved by the department.’ What does the Council of State think about Ballo's statements that went on the New Day 18?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e958	I deal with the law we have, and the law says that there is free hospital choice in the case of private hospitals, in the case of district psychiatric centers, and in the case of multidisciplinary drug institutions. That's the law. Then Capio has to get into one of these criteria. Either it has to be a hospital, or it has to be a district psychiatric center, or it has to be a multidisciplinary drug institution. The professional assessment of that question is that Capio is not one of the parts. It's not a hospital, it's not a district psychiatric center, nor is it a drug institution. In other words, the law does not allow them to be admitted under free hospital choice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e963	I thank you for the answer, but the problem is actually that patients are not allowed to use this good treatment site, which very many want to use. It has a special concept. We need diversity, and we need a good professional environment, which they have down there. Now there are clear signals from one of the government party’s representatives that this could be used by patients throughout the country. I think it would have been nice if the council could stand behind it and make sure that it was fulfilled, because there is no impossibility. Now it's like there's a stepping down of the crew at this place. There are only five places that have been in use since the summer, as Health South-East concluded a framework agreement of eight places. Only two patients from Eastfold have been able to receive treatment at this site since 2005. It's strange that you want good treatment, and then you throw them out. There are not enough such treatment sites, and there is no diversity. What will the Council of State do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e970	Now we're getting closer to the patient, it's interesting up here. My starting point is that regional health companies have a responsibility to care for. They should ensure that this patient group is also treated. There have been major changes in patient provision for people with eating disorders in recent years. A number of new offers have been made. That means that Health South-East, Health West and Health Middle-Norway now use to a small extent the possibility of sending patients to Capio. That doesn't mean that patients don't get an offer, but they get an offer elsewhere than at Capio. There may be many good professional reasons why that happens. In Health Nord, the offers are not yet well developed, and therefore we also saw that Health Nord in 2008 used more than 800 treatment days at Capio in Fredrikstad. That's because patients are in focus – you get an offer either in your own region or at Capio, if you don't have enough offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e980	I have the following questions for the Minister of Health and Welfare: ‘The subject of biotechnology, by letter to the Ministry of Health and Welfare of 14 March 2009, pointed to weaknesses in the investigations that led to the introduction of the HPV vaccine into the paediatric vaccination programme from the school year 2009/2010. It is shown, among others: to uncertainties about adverse reactions. The size provided for in budget entry. S. No 11 for 2008-2009, the continuous evaluation of the effects and adverse reactions of the vaccine. What is the Council of State’s assessment of the Biotechnology Council’s advice to postpone the introduction of the vaccine?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e989	This case has had a thorough process. The Institute of Public Health started work on assessing the vaccine in 2006 and recommended it to the Ministry of Health and Welfare in 2007. The Ministry of Health and Welfare held an open hearing in June 2007. This matter has then been dealt with over two open meetings of the National Council for Quality and Priority in Health. A number of international scientific articles demonstrate the efficacy and cost-effectiveness of the vaccine. In the efficacy study, efficacy against severe uterine cancer precursors has been investigated, as precursors are a prerequisite for development of cancer. The ECDC concludes that vaccination against HPV is an effective prevention strategy. All vaccines with a marketing authorisation are assessed on a quality, safety and efficacy basis. The requirements comply with international standards and shall ensure high quality, efficiency and safety. The European Agency for the Evaluation of Medicinal Products, the EMEA, has authorised the vaccines on the European market. The documentation requirements are comprehensive. Nevertheless, there is no guarantee against unexpected effects. Therefore, the medicinal products are carefully monitored even after they enter the market. The vaccine has been given for more than 40 million. doses, and adverse reactions have been collected from many countries without evidence of life-threatening or long-term adverse reactions. To follow up on the Storting's assumptions, the Public Health Institute is working on information material aimed at girls, parents and health professionals. The Public Health Institute is also well underway to plan a monitoring system for the effectiveness of the vaccine. A system for reporting adverse reactions to vaccines has already been established in Norway. A number of countries have introduced or decided to introduce vaccines against cervical cancer. The United States, Australia, Belgium, France, Germany, Italy, Spain, England, Denmark and the Netherlands have already started. Sweden will introduce the vaccine from 2010. I believe that we will not achieve anything by postponing the introduction for one year. A deferral must be between 10 and 20 years in order to find out whether the vaccine protects against cancer and not just against the front stages, and whether there are unexpected long-term adverse reactions. If we wait as long as it turns out that the vaccine has been effective, the back of the medal will be that such a decision can cost 500 to 1,000 women their lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1006	I do not know if it is correct to follow the ritual and thank you for the answer, because I heard no answer. What I asked the Council of State was how he assesses the fact that the independent professional body, which the state itself has set up and which is the closest to evaluating the issues here, has addressed a unanimous recommendation to the Council of State. I did not hear one word about how the Council of State assesses the recommendation of the Biotechnology Institute. As far as I can understand, the Biotechnology Study has reinforced the reservations made by a unanimous committee, including the members of the government parties, and which are exceptionally strong, because they show that the Committee also feels for very uncertain reasons both on the question of whether there is a demonstrable health benefit and on the question of whether there are any side effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1013	Let me first point out that it is not the subject of biotechnology that is the state's professional body in the matter of assessing the introduction of vaccines. That's what the Institute of Public Health is. So that's an important starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1018	I'm sorry, I said independently.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1023	The State Professional Agency for the Introduction of Vaccines has made a clear and unambiguous recommendation, and our assessment of the Biotechnology Opinion is that it does not bring anything new into the debate. All aspects of the subject of biotechnology are discussed and balanced when considering the issue of introducing the vaccine. So, the best thing to say is that when biotechnology comes on the track, it's at least late, because this is a process that's been going on for a long time, and the conditions that are pointed out have been evaluated.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1028	I quote what a unanimous committee wrote in the budget position: ‘Vaccination is based on parental or proposed consent and detailed and objective information must be provided on the potential health benefit of the vaccine as well as on the uncertainties related to efficacy and adverse reactions.’; Can the Council of State guarantee that all parents will also receive information that there are very many professionals who are warning against this and that the Biotechnology Topic – the independent body set up to deliver opinions on its own initiative – has unanimously asked for a postponement? Can the Council of State guarantee that this will be known to all parents?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1040	As I said in my answer, to follow up on the Storting's assumptions, the Public Health Institute is working on an information material aimed at girls, parents and health professionals. So there will be a thorough and good information for the parents who, together with their children, will make the choice to use the HPV vaccine. Norwegian health authorities do not have the habit of distorting reality when informing about the effects of medicines. We have good and proper procedures on this, and we need to inform ourselves about this vaccine – as we do about all other vaccines – in a sober and proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1048	From the representative of Ms Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Renewal and Administration: «I refer to my question to written answer No. 1394 on 30 June 2008 that 80 government and municipal websites have spread viruses. Again, data security problems related to the country’s websites have been reported. The evening post reports on 19 March 2009 that outsiders have placed viruses on departmental websites, viruses that can destroy people's PCs. It was claimed that the government authority was warned and warned, but nothing was done. What does the Council of State do to ensure that government websites are better secured for users and to avoid data breaches on public networks?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1056	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1062	‘Gassco is now investigating, on behalf of Gassnova, the basis for an investment decision for a 12 inch CO2 capture pipeline from Kårstø to storage in the Utsira formation. Gassco has concluded that a larger pipeline will be a more cost-effective solution. A larger line will also open up industrial possibilities for which a 12 inch line does not have the capacity. Will the Council of State contribute to Gassco’s mission to investigate the use of a larger pipeline from Kårstø to Utsira?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1072	The government is working according to ambitious objectives to realise the capture and storage of CO2. Therefore, mandates have also been given to Gassnova and Gassco reflecting the Government's ambition level: we must be sure that the infrastructure for the transport and safe storage of CO2 is in place at the start-up time of the planned CO2 capture installations. Gassnova is now working on the planning of transport and storage solutions for CO2 from Kårstø. The progress plan for this work is coordinated with the planning of full-scale capture of CO2 at the same site of the gas power plant. In order to ensure that quantities of CO2 other than captured CO2 from the gas power plant are taken into account, a pipe with a dimension of those 12 inches has been constructed. Such a 12-inch pipe allows transport up to 2.8 million tonnes of CO2. This is a significantly greater capacity than the demand from the gas power plant suggests. In addition to all CO2 from the gas power plant in full operation, this tube dimension will, for example: permit the transport of all CO2 from the gas processing plant on Kårstø and additional volumes of approximately: half a million tonnes of CO2. Gassnova considers that there will be no time to prepare transport solutions with an even larger pipe dimension within the current Kårstø project propulsion plan. I am concerned that we both facilitate the transport of CO2 from different sources and exploit any economies of scale when transporting CO2. However, the actual economies of scale depend on the full utilisation of the pipe capacity. The capture of CO2 from other sources near Kårstø is currently at the planning stage and thus there is uncertainty as to whether there will be additional volumes to be transported in a few years beyond what is foreseen in the existing plans. For any new CO2 volumes, I would like to point out that, in addition to the Kårstø project, there are also concrete plans for the transport and storage of CO2 from Mongstad. In this context, for example, it is assessed that: Johansen formation with associated CO2 tubes that could have the potential as a large central stock for CO2. As mentioned above, the choice of transport solution from Kårstø is closely linked to the propulsion plan of the capture plant. In the nearly half of the years since the gas power plant was completed, it has only been in production and emitted CO2 for a few weeks. Prognosis of operating time will include, inter alia: depending on what is used as an estimate of future gas and power prices, which is very uncertain. Experience from the operating pattern of the gas power plant is an important background for assessing the propulsion plan of the capture plant on Kårstø. Any other propulsion plan for the Kårstø fishing facility will allow the identification of the possibilities and needs of a CO2 transport system with a larger capacity. In addition, there will be time to assess the potential benefits of coordinating transport solutions from Kårstø and Mongstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1146	What is now going on is an investigation, and I can't understand that extending the mission to also ascertain a larger dimension of the pipeline will mean some delay. It will also not bind a future decision, but it will make the options available to you, which are also requested locally. I would like to show that Gassco has said that it will be more cost-effective with a larger pipe. It is true that if other emissions on Kårstø are included in addition to the gas power plant, a significant part of the capacity in a 12 inch tube will be seized. There are plans in this area of activity that could require more disposal options than such a pipe provides. I would like to have a more detailed explanation as to why you can't consider two alternatives in parallel, and then come back to the decision as to which one to choose when the investigation is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1155	I do not reject the possibility to explore more alternatives. What I'm saying in my answer is that Gassnova, who gives me the professional advice on these questions, says that within the current Kårstø progress plan – and if one then has an ambition, as one should have, to have a sewage treatment plant that is up and down, one also has a pipe in place – there is no room for it. On this issue, we are probably faced with a choice of whether to go further on the solution now available, that is, with the tube dimension planned, or whether to choose to use some more time to look at the possibility of coordination that the representative of Kvassheim is engaged in.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1160	My advice is that the Council of State will take a new round to see if it is not possible to have a parallel investigation of two alternatives. I assume that this will not delay decisions that need to be taken regarding the Kårstø project. This is a region with great opportunities, but also with great challenges. There have been many negative news about industry in the Haugesund region. But on the other hand, there are many exciting projects. In order to obtain a good environmental solution for these projects, it will be important that there is capacity for CO2 landfilling. So my call to the Council of State is that he takes a new round to see if it is not possible to get an investigation of a larger pipeline capacity, without it seems delaying on decisions to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1170	I fully understand the commitment of the representative Kvassheim to put in place pipe capacity that also meets possible future needs. I just want to repeat that the pipe that is planned so far has capacity that goes far beyond the need for the gas power plant at Kårstø. So it's not like you're planning a pipe that only takes up this gas. One thing is to think that it would make sense to investigate any other pipes in addition, but I can hardly say that the professional assessments that become part of me are not valid in terms of what has an impact on the possible starting time of transport in a new pipe. I do not think anyone can escape the fact that if one is to follow the Kvassheim reasoning of the representative, one must also look at it in relation to the overall timetable on Kårstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1178	This question, from the representative of Dagrun Eriksen to the Minister of Knowledge, has been transferred to the Minister of Labour and the Minister of Inclusion as appropriate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1181	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Employment and Inclusion the following questions: ‘Students in vocational rehabilitation taking part in their foreign practices lose Nav’s support. Nav legislation requires that stays abroad be a compulsory part of the study to provide support. It makes it impossible for these students to have a foreign stay during the course of study, contrary to the intention of the Quality Reform to allow all students to do so. What will the Council of State do to enable this student group to take part in the study abroad?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1190	Recruitment benefits are granted to persons who, by reason of sickness, injury or negligence, have their ability to carry out gainful activities permanently reduced or who have had their choice of occupation or employment substantially reduced. The benefits are provided in the context of measures that are necessary and appropriate to enable the person to obtain or maintain appropriate employment. Good follow-up from the Staff Regulations of Employment and Welfare is an important prerequisite for success in vocational rehabilitation. The general rule, therefore, is that vocational rehabilitation is to be carried out in Norway. However, the seat of employment and welfare may approve measures abroad if deemed necessary and appropriate. The Norwegian education system is well developed and adapted to the Norwegian labour market. In principle, therefore, it will not be necessary to travel abroad in order to implement measures. Therefore, in assessing whether the measure is deemed necessary and appropriate, it is emphasised whether action abroad can qualify for work in Norway, the costs of implementing measures abroad and the possibility of following up action participants abroad. Admission criteria and access regulation at Norwegian universities that would result in the imposition of necessary and appropriate measures in practice in Norway or the emergence of disproportionately long waiting times may be a reason for the acceptance of measures abroad. Moreover,in some cases,it may be appropriate for medical reasons, where vocational rehabilitation and medical rehabilitation are carried out in parallel. The general rule on the residence of the recipient in Norway is continued when rehabilitation benefits, death grants and temporary unpaid pay as of 1 March 2010 are replaced by redundancy benefits. I have no plans to propose changes in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1203	I thank you for the answer, but I hope that the Council of State has also been in dialogue with the Minister of Research and Higher Education in advance. One of the core problems for this particular student group in vocational rehabilitation is that there has been a lack of communication. Nav’s rule management, on the one hand, does not coincide with the Ministry of Knowledge’s instructions to the institutions to offer ‘students wishing to do so, a study stay abroad as part of a degree programme’. The case also affects disabled students. The Star Island Committee took this up in its setting and made clear to the ministry that it had to be cleaned up in order to complete the desired education. My follow-up question is: will the Council of State, in cooperation with the Minister for Research and Higher Education, take an initiative to review and clean up the legislation of the Student Group in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1214	As I said in my first answer, there are several criteria that can provide the basis for foreign studies or activity to be part of a course of education funded by Nav. So there's opportunities, but it should be because it gives the best solution, or because it's necessary to get the education that you've started. I talk a lot to the Minister of Research and Higher Education, and one thing that is important to keep a little bit of order with regard to Nav's financing of supplementary education, re-education, etc., where changing governments have actually been very concerned about the principle, is that we should not make Nav's funding of re-education and education an alternative source of funding for ordinary education. It's also a little important to keep in place, and that's among the things that the research and higher education minister and I are trying together to keep track of.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1221	I thank you again for the answer. I think it is right, as it is said, that the legislation opens up so that this can be implemented. The question I have asked has its background in a specific matter, an enquiry that the National Association of Students has received from a student at the University of Harstad. Now it turns out that other students at the same school, in the same situation and in the same study, have not lost their support when they have taken part of their practice abroad. So there's not only a different approximation between departments as to the desire to do this as automatic schemes, but there are also different practices between different Nav offices because it's going to be used with discretion. Then it's pretty hard to know how to deal with this. An estimate is that this only applies to about 4,000 students, so I don't think there's any risk of eroding the student funding as such. I wish the Council of State could take the initiative to get more equal treatment between the different Nav offices.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1230	What the representative is now saying confirms, to the extent that I said in my reply, that there are opportunities to make a foreign residence part of Nav-funded education. Although cases have been treated differently, there are not necessarily similar cases. There's some reason why there's some sense in here. It is impossible for me – and certainly also for the representative – to assess matters for those who have been given the opportunity to stay partially abroad, compared to those who have not. However, what I agree with the representative is that similar cases – but there may be different cases – should be treated equally. And I agree, as I said, with the representative that the practice in this area should not differ for similar cases, based on where an applicant. It is an ongoing task throughout the Nav system to contribute to the understanding of rules in the same way. That's where I also share the commitment of the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-25.ana.ud1338e1237	The Stortinget has then handled the completed map for the day, and the meeting has been cancelled.
