ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e54	An application for a welfare permit for the representative of Rune J. Kijlaaen from 9 January to 15 January has been submitted by the Centre Party’s Group of Great Britain and Northern Ireland. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Sigrid Brattabø Handegard, is invited to meet from 13 January to 15 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e86	Long waiting for treatment is a recurring issue, and waiting times are of great importance to the perception of public health services among people. However, it also has a significant impact in many cases on the patient’s ability to recover and on the patient’s future health status. A report by McKenzie shows that France is the country that does not operate on waiting lists. This was also confirmed by the French authorities in the fall, when the health section of the Advancement Party visited Paris. They did not understand the question when we asked how long waiting lists they had for different patient groups. In France, patients receive continuous treatment as needed, and the only waiting period involved was completely necessary preparation for any operation or other treatment. Now I'm not saying that Norway should necessarily copy the French health model. They also have major interaction problems and other problems, and have recently adopted a new organisation of health services to improve that problem. But at least it shows that it is possible to have a public health service without waiting lists and that waiting lists are not a necessary evil! In terms of patients’ right to have their condition assessed, i.e. The right of access to investigation and diagnostics is often an undisclosed issue, and patients today have far too poor rights. Patients waiting for the necessary investigation and diagnostics have an unexplained state, and in many cases the uncertainty itself can be a heavy burden. In addition to frustration, uncertainty and suffering in the affected patients, waiting costs a great deal in terms of long health messages, reminders and unproductive sorting and administration of these diagnostic cows. It also leads to unnecessary drug use, often of addictive drugs. This is no better when you know that a diagnostic investigation itself often costs less than half a day’s sick pay. If the patient’s decision-makers consider that a specialist investigation should be conducted or an X-ray carried out during, for example: One week, the doctor should be able to grant the patient that right. In order to meet the needs of patients, agreements between X-ray institutes, laboratories and RHF without volume limits should, in my opinion, be concluded, or it can be resolved as the Progress Party wants, by resuming the Nav tariffs, together with its own share, to cover the marginal costs. What is the proper waiting time? The responsible waiting time for disease treatment shall be fixed on a professional basis, but as long as the patient has unexplained symptoms and signs, there is no professional basis for such a priority. Another problem is that the waiting time for treatment is calculated as the number of days from referral, where diagnosis is recorded and known at the treating institution, for the first time for treatment. Nor is there any indication as to when the treatment should be completed. Many patients have to wait several months for radiological studies if emergency cases are not considered urgent. Nevertheless, it turns out that many of those who have the most serious disorders are among those who have waited a long time. An experienced radiologist at a private X-ray institute has described the situation as follows: ‘Over 10 months in 2008, more than 160 new cases of cancer and metastases were detected. All study types were involved. The most common forms of cancer found were breast cancer, lung cancer, bowel cancer, cancer of the lymph nodes and metastases. A review of these references shows that only half of the referrals were possible in advance to know that it could be cancer; the others were so unspecific that it was not possible to prioritize. Radiologists try at best to prioritize the right to study and with the shortest possible waiting time, but this is a very difficult field to follow up.’ Simply put, it is not possible to give patients a proper prioritisation on the basis of a referral. In one of two cases where cancer was detected, there was no evidence of cancer until the patient was examined. These include: therefore it is so serious that the waiting lists are as long as they are now. Although so-called immediate help patients are always examined without or with minimal waiting time, it is simply not known whether these cases are of a serious nature. Musculoskeletal and connective tissue disorders are currently one of the most common causes of morbidity and morbidity. Overseer Ivar Rossvoll from Trondheim has looked at this with waiting times in a doctoral thesis at Norway's technical-natural-scientific university. The doctoral thesis revealed that many who were waiting for surgical treatment of musculo-skeletal disorders had significant pain and disability, and that many were unemployed because of the disease. It also appeared that workers waiting for surgery had been sickly reported in part of the waiting period, and the duration of the waiting period had influenced the possibility of returning to work after surgery. The probability of being back in work one year after surgery was nine times less for sick patients who had waited one year for treatment than for those who received treatment after one month. Here, of course, also the time the patient is waiting to be diagnosed, playing in. If a patient waits several months before being diagnosed, this is also part of the patient’s waiting time and will affect whether the outcome is good. In the case of mental disorders, we also know that there is a lot of waiting time. Lack of professional competence and capacity leads to waiting time, but the deficiency is not as great as it appears. There are many private psychiatrists and psychologists who don't have contracts. The NRK Nordland had in August a look where a trust voter in Bodø, Raymond Dokmo, had told Avisa Nordland that it is up to one year waiting from the time they send referral, and until the patient gets an hour from the psychologist, and that if Health Nord had had an appointment with several psychologists, the situation would be different. The trust-chosen for the tyrants stated: ‘But it’s probably an economic issue, as with most health care.’ The consequences may be great for patients who have to wait a long time for psychological help. We are constantly hearing about examples of serious mental illness that have not been treated in time or that are not followed up as they should after treatment. In too many cases, waiting time for treatment is irresponsible and has serious consequences. We're still reading about this in the paper, and we're reading about the most dramatic consequences, but this is something that happens every day: lack of treatment and long waiting times. In the case of mentally ill people, there should not have been any waiting time at all. In very many of these cases, there are people who need emergency treatment. Russ users are assured of their health status within 30 days under the Patient Rights Act. This is a patient group that has difficulty in making use of its rights, and it is a patient group that needs investigation and treatment when the motivation is present. There is also a patient group where the health situation is clearly getting worse when the patient is waiting. Both physical and mental health conditions are getting worse. This is totally unsustainable for these groups, and it also affects entire families. Waiting times are not new in the Norwegian health system, but if there is no reasonable explanation as to why patients should wait for treatment, the aim must be to eliminate unnecessary waiting. In the period we have had a red-green government, the waiting time has increased. Private payment has increased, and the purchase of private health insurance has increased. It could not be in line with the objective set by the Government in the Soria Moria Declaration. It seems that waiting times are used as an instrument to limit publicly paid healthcare. I would like to know if the Council of State believes it is good health policy to maintain the health cows system, or how he might think of removing these cows. At least I believe that health cows are evil, that they are not in the best interests of the patient, and that they are not socio-economic either. It's the wrong use of money, and it's the wrong use of medical staff. There has to be another way to do it, so you can get rid of this problem. This is a growing problem, both in terms of diagnosis and in terms of treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e137	It's a very important and central theme to address in this interview. I'm going to try to answer it by reflecting a little on some of the thoughts that we are now doing in the context of the interaction reform. I feel that very many of the questions that the representative Giltun is concerned about in his interview are what we are now working on. As you can see, I also have an opportunity to give some kind of preliminary feedback to Stortinget on where we are now in that reform work. I want to start by saying that very often you can get the impression that the main challenge to Health-Norway is lack of money, that the main challenge to hospitals is lack of money, and if we had just granted more, we would have solved all sorts of problems. In fact, there is a significant degree of self-criticism in this statement, in the sense that from this pulpit I have often represented that view myself – then in the last four years. But then I have tried as a health minister to see if it is actually such that the decisions in this room have fed Norwegian hospitals in the last few years. It's not like that. When the State assumed responsibility for the hospitals in 2002, the first government budget to be adopted was 50 billion kroner. The State budget proposal that was promoted by this government last autumn, which is valid for 2009, is NOK 102 billion. In seven years the hospital budget has more than doubled. Now I'm aware that these are nominal amounts, and that there has been a price increase, some pensions, some task changes, etc., but anyway there's a huge increase in hospital appropriations. And remember, the growth from 2008 to 2009 is only SEK 6.5 billion – in one year. And remember, the government's annual fixed medical fee is NOK 2.5 billion. So there are almost three growing fixed medical systems just on the hospital budget in one year. I believe that the starting point must be that we must not go around and believe that if I had now, instead of NOK 102 billion in the budget for this year, proposed NOK 104 billion, the problems would have been gone, or if I had promoted NOK 105 billion, it would have been really okay. We've more than doubled in seven years, but the problems are there, the challenges are there. I fully agree that the use of private is a relevant issue that we should bring with us, but we should not go around and do the simple analysis that only we had now opened up a little more for private, Health-Norway's challenges had disappeared as dew for the sun. It's going to be one too simple analysis. It's part of the analysis, but it's one too simple analysis. What kind of tracks are we now working on to look at some of the more structural problems that I think we have in Health-Norway? In the short time I have, I have to illustrate this just through a few examples – so it won't be a complete analysis, but an analysis through some examples. For example, at Christmastime, the Evening Post announced that in the Oslo hospitals in 2007, there were 44 000 lay days of pretreated patients — 44 000 lay days of pretreated patients! And they don't get any good patient treatment. It's not like being in a hospital when you don't have to be in a hospital is good patient treatment. It's on the contrary a bad patient treatment. Because when you're done at the hospital, another person should be in his or her life, start training, rehabilitation, etc., or start working again, if possible. Instead, one is in bed, and the only thing that happens is that the doctor, when the visit comes in the morning, asks, are you here yet? And then he just goes on. There's nothing else happening. Then I asked myself, "Why are they lying there, in the most expensive beds in Health-Norway?" Is that because the Municipality of Oslo won't take responsibility for them? No, in this way I have confidence in the City Council in Oslo, I think they sincerely want to give their citizens an offer in the municipality. But they can't afford it. They don't have money. And then society spends twice as much money as it would have cost to give them an offer in the municipality of Oslo, by having them lying in the hospital. It's a structural flaw, and one doesn't solve the structural problem by offering more private hospitals. It has nothing to do with the problem! It is quite obvious that what is profitable for the patient and for society is contrary to the system we have organized in the healthcare system. We spend twice as much money as we need on certain patients, on providing poor patient treatment. It's obviously a problem. But the biggest problem is that too many ports in hospitals. Take, for example: a large group of patients, a large group of patients, such as diabetic patients. 250,000 people in Norway have or are developing type 2 diabetes. There's almost nothing happening, nothing good enough at least, in prevention. There's probably a basis for criticizing the government, but I think it's primarily a basis for criticizing the system. It is too small in terms of prevention. If you come to your doctor and have high blood sugar levels, you have an increased blood sugar level. There's no alarm! We're too poor on diagnosis, and about half of those with type 2 diabetes in Norway don't even know they have it. They're walking around with a life-threatening disease without knowing about it. And even after the diagnosis is made, it happens too little. Therefore, the disease develops and a few serious complications such as kidney failure, need for dialysis, heart problems, amputation problems, etc. There is a huge increase in dialysis treatment in Norway. The solution to that problem is not to give more to dialysis treatment or to get some private actors who can also administer dialysis treatment, so that one can choose whom one should receive dialysis. The solution to that problem is to make sure that getting diabetes does not lead to kidney failure or to avoid people getting diabetes. One has to solve that problem by using the economic resources in another way. That is why we are now working for two main tracks in the interaction reform. I am quite sure that the representative will say that we cannot solve all problems through this reform. That's true. But I think we can start work on solving a lot of problems, start work on turning the thinking around in Health-Norway through what we're now working on. And then we work for two main tracks. One is that the interaction reform is becoming more and more marked by a large-scale community health service reform, with much more permanent elements. We have to stop letting the number of doctors in hospitals grow and grow. We must have control and control of it, and the vacancies must now come as permanent homes in the municipalities. In addition, the prescribers must have a much larger apparatus around them. They must be able to refer nutrition physiologists, to health protection activities, to physical activity. So there must be a close follow-up around the large patient groups with lifestyle-related chronic disorders. We need to have decentralized psychiatric teams. It's a wrong analysis, I think, that Giltun's representative comes with when she says that the solution to the waiting time in psychiatry is even more contract specialists. 85 pst. of the resources of the psychiatry are used in the specialist healthcare service — all become so ill that they need institutional or specialist facilities. If we get more psychiatrists or psychologists now, we have to use them in the municipalities, so that people get help early enough and don't get so sick that they need specialist health care. There is such a bias in the distribution of resources in mental health protection. So we're working on a large-scale community health service reform, with decentralised psychiatry, decentralised care, significant numbers of permanent staff, much stronger municipal rehabilitation and community rehabilitation, and instructions for decision-makers to participate in general public tasks, such as: school health, health centre services and as a nurse — all that fails in the community health service. The second main track we're working on is that it doesn't just keep up with this. We also need to ensure that it is profitable for the right level to provide the patient with proper treatment. When you are at risk of diabetes, and we want a large device to be installed around the patient to prevent diabetes from leading to, for example, diabetes. renal insufficiency, it must be profitable for the municipality to do so. Today, it's the opposite. If the municipality doesn't do anything to the patient when he gets sick, the municipality saves money, and the state takes the expenses in the form of dialysis. So the economic incentives are the exact opposite of what we want in health care. That's why what we're putting our brains on most at the moment, making an economic system that can be a suggestion for turning the entire incentive structure around, so it's profitable that people don't get sick, instead of -- like today -- not to do anything if you're going to get sick, because it's profitable for the hospital to get hold of the patient, because you have effort-driven funding, which makes you get 40 pst. of the income just because people get sick, not because people don't get sick. That's what I got, but it was good to have it said.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e167	I have to say, I am a little surprised at the posts of the Council of State. And he will not wait for a salary to hear that this is not about interaction. I wonder if the Council of State has at all read the interpellation and whether he heard my post. This is about waiting times for patients who are already ill, who have approached their doctor and who are waiting to be diagnosed and treated. It's a serious topic, it's a serious problem in our healthcare system, and it's not about interaction in the first place, although it's about interaction as well. But, as I mentioned, in France they have interaction problems. They have started a new organisation of their health services, but they have not had waiting times. It's the waiting times I've wanted to address this debate, and I would like this room to be able to discuss what the topic is about, and not what the Council of State is most concerned about at the moment, although it's an important topic. In the case of changes made this year, the Government made a change by transferring the funding of the private laboratories and X-ray institutes at the turn of the year to an approximate framework of funding via volume agreements with regional health enterprises. The tariff reduction at that time was aimed at making it unprofitable to produce beyond the volume ceiling of the agreements. This has also resulted in those who do not accept to stand in line paying themselves, either through employers or insurance schemes, and we have received a two-part healthcare service where the economy decides more on whether the patient is receiving treatment in time. The waiting time for a publicly paid MR study in Unilab increased by 20 days from October 2007 to 65 days in October 2008. The number of MR patients who pay the studies themselves has increased from zero to 2,400 in one year. This is a direct consequence of what the Government has done. It shows that it is going in the wrong direction, and it shows that it means something about how these services are funded, and that patients are given the opportunity to get a study and diagnosis in time. So it's not about interaction, it's about how to finance and how to move in the services. If the Council of State's interaction is also about opening up the needs of patients to manage the way healthcare should be, I agree that it means a lot. But if interaction just means new agreements and new ways of talking between municipalities and specialist health services, this won't affect the patients I'm talking about right now. I wish the Council of State would take a little more hold of the interpellation debate, in fact, in its next article.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e176	I disagree with Giltun's representative that I did not respond to the interpellation, but I did not respond as Giltun wants. It's got to be -- it's my privilege. I believe that the track on which Giltun's representative is involved in the solution to what is actually the problems here is wrong. I will clearly acknowledge that it may be possible to do something in the very short term in part of the areas proposed by Mr Giltun, but I believe that the important thing now is to take the serious, big and heavy debate on the way to Health-Norway further. In this way, it's the track that Giltun is on, in my opinion, an error trail. It is vital that we now see that the major problem we have in hospitals, both waiting lists and queues, must be solved in all places other than hospitals and in the specialist health service. If we keep focusing only on the specialist health service, we get the wrong focus. In my opinion, it is not that when you have 44,000 lay days of pre-treated patients in the municipality of Oslo, the answer to the waiting lists in Oslo is just to look at what is happening in the hospital body. The response to the waiting list challenges in Oslo is also to the degrees associated with what is happening in the Municipality of Oslo. If you want to get involved, at least you have cleared up 44 000 days of bedtime from the Oslo hospitals. It has a direct impact on waiting lists and queues. In my opinion, it is much more important than looking at the x-ray system. It's a much more important and proper grip. But what's the problem with the grip is that it's not immediately easy to see the answers. I really wish that Giltun's representative had taken up the challenge that I put into my post, for among the parties that have thought, for example. After all, overall economic systems related to patients are the Progress Party. I am not now saying that I agree with the proposal, but it is at least a party that can face the fact that a comprehensive economic system has just been envisaged in order to grasp the fact that when the health care system does not interact, we get, among other things. There is a problem with queues. And that can't be solved by just isolating the analysis to every aspect of the health care system. It must be attacked and solved by looking at the whole of the health system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e187	It is a major and important theme to address in the interpellation. I want to try to problem a couple of pages of waiting lists. The reality in Norway is that we are not as far away from the system that the interpellant mentions from France, because two thirds of Norwegian patients are sent to hospitals under the hat called immediate help. A third is within the waiting list system, and that part is actually slightly decreasing. The main part of immediate help is not heart attacks, strokes, etc., i.e. the type of red light medicine. The majority are forms of help on the day and half-time help – it's called different things. Much may suggest that part of what is within the two thirds of what is now coming to the hospitals and specialist health services as immediate help, is in some cases a way outside the waiting list system. The references come from both permanent doctors, specialists, nursing homes, medical services, etc. It's a very different degree of use of referrals to pass patients on as immediate help patients among fast doctors and medical specialists. So I think it's important to look at how we can develop systems that stimulate fast doctors and specialists to do the best possible job for patients at their level, and that you're not too fast in the lab to pass on patients and burden the rest of your health system. Financial mechanisms exist in Denmark, England, etc. As I think it is important to look into this work, such as, among other things. The Minister for Health is here. I also think there is reason to pay attention to the very different practices there are between specialists and permanent practitioners in different parts of the country regarding the use of the institute's immediate help. In order to problem a little further, I believe a floating, unbridled system without waiting lists also have significant weaknesses. I believe that our immediate help system, as it has now evolved, also has some of those weaknesses. We can lose the overview of real needs and have less opportunity to create real priorities, see. municipalities that do not keep waiting lists or record the need for hospitalisation sites. It happens in many municipalities. For example, Oslo, as I know, doesn't keep waiting lists for sick homes. Either you get sick home or you don't get it, but you don't have a real overview of who needs it and who doesn't have room. There are still media scandals about people who haven't had a place to live in. I think that in such systems where you don't keep waiting lists, but solve them directly, it's obvious hidden needs, and that it gives you no chance of prioritizing. This can in many cases lead to a lack of control capability, which we would have had if we had a waiting list system. I think waiting lists actually have a function. It gives us an overview of needs, and it gives us an overview of where in the system capacity is too small. It also provides an overview of where it fails when the waiting time is too long or increasing. It also gives us an overview of where patients prefer, where it turns out that the quality is good. It spreads; it's where you want to apply and will be treated because you have good experience with that hospital or that part of the specialist health service. Some people who work within the system tell me that what you should not do if you ever need help from a hospital or specialist health service is to go to a place where there is no waiting list, because there will be a sign or there may be a risk that the quality is not high enough when the offer is not popular enough. So I think waiting lists also have positive sides: it gives the patient better rights, it gives us a better opportunity, a better tool, to make sure that no patients wait irresponsibly for a long time, and to provide priorities and make sure to correct the system when there are weaknesses, of which there is obviously a part, such as. The representative, Mr Giltun, pointed out in his statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e206	It's a very interesting and important debate that Giltun's representative is going through with this interview. I think maybe the most important thing we do is work along several axes, and we don't focus on either one or the other. The interaction reform announced by the State Councils is one of the grips. It is a very important step in how we can work in the future to place the patient where the patient should be treated according to the LEON principle, i.e. the lowest effective level of care, where the patient has the best benefit from treatment. But we must not forget that no matter how skilled you are in this field, patients will continue to be ill and need hospital services and specialist health services. Now the Council of State showed twice in its contributions to these 44 000 patients who were hospitalized and were finished. So they're not. These are printable patients. They have not been processed at all. That's why they're waiting in a nursing home, and they may not be finished, but they have to live with their disease. On Saturday 3 January, the newspaper said that by the end of 2008 there were 256 800 patients on the waiting list. 256 800! This number has increased every year this government has been in power. As the representative of Bøhler was involved, perhaps the biggest problem is that there are waiting lists. What really is a problem is that we are now seeing an increase in waiting time. In recent times, the average waiting time has increased from 73 days to 76 days, but we see that within some patient categories the waiting time is worrying. Governments also use diabetes as an example. Yes, it is a very important area, where we are most likely to have a very significant impact on the implementation of some measures. Then it's also remarkable that the government doesn't even follow up on its own strategy for diabetes. A national strategy has even been developed, and it is not followed up. It must be a problem for the government too. For example, in the case of: For the detection of diabetes, especially type 2, in very many people who do not even know that they have had the disease, the first thing to do is to negotiate, among other things. with the prescribers, precisely to look at a tariff system related to expanded blood tests, so that the risk groups are tested. Actually, there are many ways to work, but we have to start looking at the whole treatment chain. With regard to the funding system too, we need to look at the whole treatment chain – not piecefully and splitly – from the diagnosis to rehabilitation and rehabilitation. There are a number of things that we have to deal with there. We can't get there while the grass grows, the cow dies. We cannot just wait for the interaction reform. We actually don't know when it's being introduced. The only thing we know is that there's been a signal that, by 1 April, during this time horizon, the group that the Council of State has put down is going to promote a stance to the Council of State. Then we do not know how the treatment will take place between the individual government parties, and we do not know when the matter comes to Stortinget, but there is one thing we know, namely that in the same period, very many – tens of thousands of patients – will be waiting for treatment. You have it in psychiatry. The Council of State says that he has no faith in what has to do with contract specialists – and points out that they are in hospitals. They're not. The contract specialists are just part of the healthcare system that has an agreement with the specialist healthcare service, but which is often outside the hospitals. And then we have to use the resource that's there. We have large costs of sickness benefits, disability pensions and other public benefits. There's a direct relationship between patients who don't get help, and going sick and maybe getting sick and needing benefits for the rest of their lives. I look forward to the interaction reform. I want to work together, and I want to set up at any time for the Council of State in that field, but we also have to think along several axes – we also have to help those who are already waiting for treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e227	It's always exciting to listen to the council when he thinks about the long term. I share quite a lot of his views in that context, and I am always willing to discuss these long-term challenges, especially when the Storting knows in three years' time what the proposals are all about. But I'm not sure how fruitful it is to hold that debate three years in advance. As long as you don't know what the proposals are all about, it's limited what the Storting can say about this. I have understood the question of interpellant in a completely different way from the Council of State. I have the feeling that the Council of State read in a premise that was not at all there from the interpellant's side, and that she did not say at all in her post, that the answer to all the problems is billions of dollars to the hospitals. Now the council has just invited Stortinget to continue blowing up the hospital budgets in a way that he himself argues against, and which he says is not the answer. But what the interpellant has addressed is really a completely different issue, which is much more precise, and much more close in time terms: how does it relate to the fact that the hospital reform to which the first Stoltenberg government took the initiative, with the aim of reducing waiting times and reducing queues, in a short time has turned 180 degrees, and that what is now seen is a development in exactly the opposite direction of what was meant by the whole hospital reform? During the previous period, the number of queues decreased according to the target by an average of 20 000 per. years. Over the last three years, the number of queues has increased by approx. 45,000, that's almost as much in the opposite direction as you did in the previous period. Then you have to ask the question, what is the reason for such an obvious change? At my discretion, there can be no explanation other than the objectives of the Government itself laid down in the Soria Moria Declaration, where it states that: «the scope of agreements between regional health establishments and private commercial hospitals must be limited. Free capacity in public hospitals shall be used. Agreements between health undertakings and private commercial hospitals shall not have an extent that undermines the patient base of the small local hospitals». In my opinion, this is a combination of ideology in the worst sense of the word, namely principles without ground, and a misdiagnosis, namely the diagnosis that the problem is that there is so much available capacity in public health. Where in the vastest world does it come from being an overcapacity in public health? The effect of requiring regional health companies to reduce the use of contracts with private suppliers — this is essentially a matter of day-to-day surgery, planned surgery — is not that there has been a similar escalation in the public sector. The only effect is that patients who need this treatment have to wait much longer than before. The result is that one sees more clearly and more clearly the contours of a classed healthcare system, which is opposed in the rhetoric, but which is promoted in practical policy. The fact that Aleri's hospital here in Oslo – in order to make this concrete – was halved from health companies from 2006 to 2007, what has this resulted? This has resulted in a double of 100 pst. treatment paid for privately. In other words, those patients who do not receive an offer as well as before fall into two groups: those who are able to pay themselves, do not wait, and those who are unable to pay themselves must wait. I don't think the Council of State is responding to this and taking it seriously. If this is what you want, you have to say it right out. When health south-east builds up with 70 drug sites in a situation where everyone thinks there is a desperate need to escalate the number of drug treatment sites, it necessarily affects users. When health regions cut 53 000 days of treatment in private training institutions, who has to pay the bill for it? It's the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e247	The starting point for this inter-pelling debate is the focus on waiting lists in the hospital sector and the way in which they should be resolved. At least I see it this way. A headline in Dagbladet a few years ago said that a woman was waiting for 19 years for 21 operations. When I read that article, it turned out that it was 19 years since she was operated on for the first time, and then she had recently had surgery for the 21st time. It makes it visible that there are many ways to produce waiting time. When reading the article, it was quite obvious that she had not waited 19 years for 21 operations, but that she had completed 21 operations at 19 years – which is something quite different. I find in many ways that the interpellant has some of the same level of precision as the newspaper had in its article. If you think there's no connection between referral to a hospital and what happens in the municipality that refers, before you go to the hospital and when you get out again, there's something a little sweet and charming about that way of thinking, but at least there's no health policy of it. Obviously, as Jan Bøhler also said, two-thirds, according to some material, of what happens to hospitalisations related to immediate help – and we know that it's being inserted from a nursing home because you don't have a crew of nurses there who can put in intravenously – would have been completely unnecessary if you had increased staffing in the municipality. When the interpellant is not at all interested in going into that debate and believes that the Council of State is doing a derailment when he points out that context, it's kind of like having a link with different terms, and you say that what the one term is, and what the second term is, doesn't matter if you're going to have a chain. There are some connections here that are completely banal, but the interpellant obviously hasn't got hold of. Yesterday we discussed organ donation. I think that Inge Wohnung described in a relatively precise way the challenges you face here. It ends up dealing with it in a precise way, that is, all of the parties agree. It often makes it obvious that defining health problems in a precise way, so that you can get a common understanding of the challenges, is a lot of people, regardless of the type of party you belong to, landing on the same conclusions. One of the things I'm most surprised about when it comes to Inge Wohnning's posts is enough that he spends so much energy criticising an interaction reform that is so close to the input he himself has been making into the two selections he's been leading on health care priorities. It has just been pointed out that priorities are taking place, not necessarily on the basis of needs, but on the basis of completely different mechanisms. If you're going to end it, you have to take this kind of reform seriously and see the possibilities. I think there'll be a lot of partial cheap rhetoric in what Inge Wage here says, and you can see less of the big, overall social analyst, who should take to heart what the council of state is coming with. I also think it is great that Bjarne Håkon Hanssen says he may have expressed himself differently in the opposition. After all, I experienced his anger myself when SV suggested that not much should be allocated to the hospital sector, but that more resources should be allocated to the municipalities. I have to say, and this I say completely without irony: if there is something I have expectations of, then it is the interaction reform. The analyses described, with so much emphasis on what comes from professionals in the sector, are, of course, analyses that I have heard for many years, and that no government councils before him have dared to address. At least there are no right-wing state councils I have heard that have been close to it – except perhaps a good few years ago when Wenche Frogn Sellæg said that she should introduce a fixed-legislative reform, and at that time stressed that there should be a stronger priority in the municipalities. But the resistance in her own party was so great that she did not get it. And then to start talking about that you have to wait three years, when maybe the Right itself has helped push it 25 years out in time, is actually quite unreasonable! I really look forward to that chain of health services being strengthened by the prioritisation of those links that are currently lacking resources. Then it's quite obvious that you meet the interpellant's needs, that fewer people who don't need it are admitted, because you have more resources in the municipality, and more people get laid out faster. In this way, the queues are dissolved. If you're not willing to see that kind of relationship, that means you're not willing to solve the problems you're facing either. In this way, far more people should have heard this interpellence debate today. It makes it clear that the Progress Party does not have the solution to these problems. - Should the president say anything?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e260	The President sometimes wants to say something, but he's going to try to leave it alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e263	First, I would like to thank the inter-pellant, who has raised this important debate. It is an important area in our health sector to have a critical look at how long the individual patient must wait. An area where waiting time is not desirable is the mental health provision for children and young people. Here it's of great value to get help quickly. We know that this will be able to prevent the disease, so that it does not evolve to become more serious and longer-lasting. The Christian People’s Party believes that it is a goal that we do not have waiting time for children and young people with mental illness. Yes, there is a guarantee in place, but for a guarantee to work, there has to be a device around it that ensures both the individual child and the individual youth when they feel that the mental challenges become too heavy to bear. That's why it's important, as the Christian People's Party sees it, that we bet on low-threshold services, where it's easy to seek help, and where help is given quickly. Through the Roadmap for Mental Health, several health sisters have been employed in health centres for young people. We know that it's important that it's the same health-sister young people meet every time they turn, so that trust is established, and so that there is security for the help that is being sought. In its main contribution, the Council of State was on two main lines of the interaction reform. One of the main features was a municipal health service reform. The Council of State said that there would be much more determination, that we would have a bigger apparatus, that there would be more decentralised psychiatry, more to work on drugs, and more to habilitation and rehabilitation. I hope that the Council of State can also focus on the young people in this community health service reform. Another area where there is a long waiting period is drug treatment. It is also serious that there are a wide range of deadlines in relation to drug addicts. This is not good enough, as the Christian People's Party sees it. It is particularly regrettable when we know that there is free treatment capacity in private non-profit drug institutions. A number of institutions are at risk of closure, and a number of institutions have severely reduced their operations or changed their treatment provision in order to receive other patient groups. Treatment facilities are available and it may be useful to cooperate with other countries to reduce waiting time. The Nordic region is a natural area for some types of treatment, but there are already good cooperation agreements, among others. with France on some patient groups. What is positive about such cooperation agreements is that the patient is given help, and that the waiting time is reduced, but also that a mutual learning process takes place through cooperation. The Christian People's Party is looking forward to discussing the government's cooperation reform at a later stage. We're excited about what the government and the selection will present, but we're going to be ready to take the discussions when they come, because for the Christian People's Party, it's important that we keep the patient in focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e281	It is the law on patient rights that regulates the right to health care and provides us with a treatment guarantee. We in the Left believe that the Patient Rights Act is basically good, and we believe that we need a system that regulates duties and corrects within the healthcare system. But it's follow-up of the system that's important. There is little help in having a treatment guarantee if we are unable to meet, for example. the processing guarantee for waiting time. Now waiting time has been quite focused in the Norwegian health debate, and reports are still being prepared. The Norwegian patient registry has established that there are wide variations in the follow-up to the treatment guarantee. It's in itself serious. The Norwegian Patient Register states that patients with the right to the necessary health care should receive treatment within a period of time which has been taken into account on a medical basis. In a report based on data from 17 somatic hospitals, for other tertiary last year, 16 pst. patients are not offered within the deadline. The number of timeouts varies according to the report between 8 and 22 pst. between hospitals. Prior to drug treatment, mental health protection for children and young people and for adults is the deadline of 25 pst., 23 pst. and 19 pst. So, on average, more than every five patients are subject to intermittent interruptions in the second tertiary in 2008. According to this report, before mental health protection and drug treatment, there are considerable variations in the number of delays between institutions, from those without a time-limit, to those with more than 2/3 of the rights spaces – from 0 to 66–67 pst. It is serious in this way that the objective of the Patient Rights Act is precisely to ensure equal access to good quality healthcare for the population. So a little bit to the state council posts, and we have to be able to say our government council's mantra, which is interaction. Interaction and decentralization he was in. The left has long been pointing to bad interaction with the primary health service. I myself have quite a lot of experience as a local hospital director in Nordfjord, and I have seen in practice that there is a huge potential for better interaction. But it's not that easy to get it done. If it were simple, we'd probably have done it too far. It is not easy to achieve good interaction, and it is well known to the Council of State in its second article. But I can assure the Council of State that, at least, the Left will help to make the interaction reform more than rhetoric. So it's not just useful to pinch your fingers to make tomorrow's interaction work. One has to take quite a bit of a grip to make it work. The thing I'm thinking about then is that there has to be a re-priority of financial resources from specialist to primary health level, we have to look at the funding system for a holistic patient course, we have to certainly consider the fixed medical system, and we have to strengthen the health home competence – it's both medical competence and not least health care competence, and other skills. So I also believe that if we are to achieve an interaction reform with some weight, we are forced to go into the municipal structure. I'm assuming that the last term alone can be a difficult one for at least some of the red-green parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e294	I think the interpellant addresses an important question and an important problem related to this with waiting times. There is no doubt that waiting for a diagnosis and waiting for treatment is an additional burden for anyone who has to face such a situation. While waiting times have not increased dramatically, neither in psychiatry nor in somatic conditions, the marked increase may have been in proportion to the number of people in health queues. It's also a danger signal in itself that we have to take over as to how we're now going to meet the challenges ahead. However, these increased health queues have also been met with increased treatment provision through, for example: increased transfers to hospitals, number of hospital, hospital, hospital, psychiatry, drug abuse, etc. The increased health cows are not about what the government wants to bet on, whether it is public or private health services, because when the number of patients treated has increased as much as it has done, it has a positive effect. The reason we have new health cows is, among other things, that we have new treatment services, we are receiving new demands for treatment from patients who have not had an offer before. This in itself is positive, but at the same time one also has to organise the form of treatment in a good way. The interpellant finally asks in its interpellation: ‘Are waiting times in the health sector used as an instrument to limit the use of publicly paid health services?’ I think the Council of State answered it quite perfectly, and that is that today patients are in hospital – at a completely different price than it should have been initially needed – patients who are ready to print or who have been treated at that level, who may need to be transferred to the community health service, and we then pay an excessive sum associated with that part, rather than using the funds properly. The interpellant then replied back to the Council of State: it's not about interaction, it's about how you finance this. I think the council answered it perfectly, too. There is a cross-political consensus here in the Chamber that we may be spending more than enough money on healthcare in Norway, but the question may be more how we use these funds, how we organise our services, and the level at which treatment is to be provided at all times. This interaction is about how to interact between the community health service, the specialist health service, between the public, between the private, between the local authorities, between specialists, and get a good interaction on the demand that is. I think the Council of State pointed to important areas, and it has all also said that they are looking forward to this cooperation reform. Interaction as such is not a new concept, but there are questions about putting it in focus, getting it on the agenda, so that we can all go together to solve the challenges. I see that in Trondheim is Øya Health House opened, in connection with St. Olav's hospital. One of the purposes is to send out ready-to-print patients at St. Olav's hospital to the local health service. It is also an interaction. But we also see, as was said here, that we have nursing homes that are outsourced or transferred to specialist health care because the hospitals have neither doctors, nurses nor health professionals who can do the job. Then we have to look at how to strengthen the community health service, strengthen the professional content of hospitals, so that we do not move elderly patients who are ill, from one institution to another, in order to get a treatment that can be given at a completely different level than today. The third point one was in, was this with preventive work. I think it's important. If we are to reduce future health cows, there is also a great deal of prevention work, both in terms of physical activity and in relation to diet, especially in relation to how children and young people are to cope with their future challenges. Interaction is that we can do things together for the common goal of offering as much as possible the best possible offer at the level needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e309	During this debate, many examples have emerged that we have a health care system that can work much better than it does today. Now I have not said that interaction is not important. I have not said that I am not looking forward to the interaction reform that is coming. It's very important, and I also said it was part of it – so it's clear. But what I wanted to focus on was that today we are not using the opportunities we have to give patients faster treatment, and I also want to focus on the consequences it has for the patient himself and for the patient's ability to recover. A lot of patients are waiting too long for treatment. They are also waiting too long to be diagnosed. Getting a diagnosis is something that is rarely discussed, and the waiting time is also split up. You have one waiting time to get a diagnosis, and then the waiting time for treatment begins only when the diagnosis is made. That's a problem, because the sick patient starts waiting on the day you go to the doctor. The day you are sick and want to have an investigation, then the waiting time begins. It can be very long when you have to wait four–five–six months to get, for example. a radiological study. The examples I mentioned were clear examples of the fact that it was not possible to set a proper waiting time until the diagnosis had been established. So there are a lot of people out there who are waiting for a diagnosis, who have been with their doctor, and who know they're sick, but they don't know how sick they are. Many of these come too late for treatment, precisely because the waiting time is too long, and it increases. This with waiting lists can probably be a very good indication of what it is like — whether you have too long waiting time or not — but the information must also be used to correct the waiting time down to a reasonable and low level. Waiting time in itself is an evil; in any case it is an evil. It's also a very big mental impact for the one who's waiting and for the family. As I said, there's also a lot of drug use, completely unnecessary, for people who go through a lot of pain or have mental problems because of waiting. There's something we can do with already. There's something we can do about it by changing the funding. It's not about bad interaction between the D.A. and the X-ray institutes. It's about the possibilities of using the services we actually have. We see a trend where more and more people now pay privately, and that's a problem. We agree in this room that we don't want a health care system where the personal economy is going to decide if you're being treated. We're actually in the process of getting that kind of development. I'll give answers to the interpellation myself, I. I think the answer is yes, our healthcare today is limited because of the economy. It's the economy that underlies the constraints, and unfortunately, the health of the patients is affected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e326	I'm just going to make some closing comments, so am I. I agree, of course, that this is a complex and complex debate, and there are many approaches that can and should be taken. Some are short-term and some are longer-term. In my opinion, the chairman of the committee, Nesvik, summed it up in a good way. However, I just have to make a few comments on the reasoning that is about as follows: That waiting times are increasing is because this government is going in to use private hospitals to a lesser extent than the previous government. It's a very strong thesis that's left of some of the representatives. In 2007, there was a reduction in the use of private hospitals. Then you can say: Yes, there you see, waiting times increased in 2007. However, in 2007, health businesses had an activity growth that was much greater than the reduction in the use of private hospitals. So it wasn't that capacity in private hospitals that disappeared, which meant that waiting times increased for the Norwegian healthcare system, private and public, produced more hospital services in 2007 than ever. So if you had chosen to maintain the capacity of private hospitals and not do anything in public hospitals, the waiting times would have increased even more. So the 2007 challenge was the same as it was in 2008 and as it will be in 2009, namely that the patient flow towards hospitals is too large. We can't handle it, and patients get treatment at the wrong level. The solution to that problem is no longer a private hospital, but there is something to do with the structure of the Norwegian healthcare system. At the same time, I am very concerned, through my dialogue with the private hospitals – both from the point of view of today’s situation and by including them in the interaction reform work – both the criticism that comes here in the hall, and from them. One is the scope and the level. I think that both I and the opposition will have difficulty agreeing, and that I and the private hospitals too will have difficulty agreeing. The second is how we appear as partners in relation to the level we all have, both in terms of predictability and long-termity. There I am very concerned that we should appear as a better partner to private hospitals than we have done so far. Therefore, by 1 March, regional health companies were given a mandate by me to come up with a proposal for a better contract structure, not just with private hospitals, but with private actors as a whole, because we need to become a more predictable and good partner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e339	Case No. 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e355	Let me first clarify what this debate is about, because this is not the first time we are discussing the industrial power regime in this Chamber. It's actually less than a year ago the last time we had an interpellation debate about this, the time Ivar Kristiansen from the Right. This is primarily not a debate to point your finger at each other and talk about who promised what in the election campaign, and whether it is fulfilled or not. Nor is it a debate about a desire to spend taxpayers' money on subsidising Norwegian industry. But it is a debate on framework conditions, on creating predictability for industry and on the industrial framework conditions for power in Norway. We must remember that industry does not survive on terms of power – it survives on power generation and power supplies. Therefore, as far as possible, we should discuss what solutions we can agree on, so that the industry after today knows what it has to deal with – what we will deliver and what we will not deliver. It may well be so important for industry to know whether it is necessary today to enter the market in order to obtain its own contracts, or whether it is still necessary to wait for a political system to give you better conditions than today. The industry is important to our nation. It is a knowledge cluster that is technology-driven in many areas, developing not only new products but also new production methods that can be an export product in itself. It is an important export industry for the nation and contributes significantly from abroad, and it contributes significantly to employment in many areas. Many societies have their industry as a cornerstone and a driving force in the community. From an environmental point of view, Norwegian industry is worth including because it is very energy efficient compared to its competitors. It has low emissions of unwanted gases and other things, and it operates significantly with R & D in production methods to further strengthen itself in this competition. It is known that industry operates on a global market where demand for goods, largely metal, is independent of what is happening in Norway. Ergo: Your ability to survive depends on having a profitability at the bottom. What characterises industry is that it is long-term – very long-term, probably much longer-term than we in the Stortinget can understand with our four-year years and with replacements of oil and energy ministers every two and a half years. Often there is a 30–40–50 year perspective on investments. This is very capital-intensive investment, where Norwegian industry in its allocations has to compete with other countries, because there is a global capital flow in this industry. It is therefore highly competitive. This means that the need for predictable and, not least, competitive framework conditions is central to the reality of life. In the last few months, I and some of my colleagues in the Progress Party have had a comprehensive tour of Norwegian power-processing industrial companies. We have visited Odda, Sauda, Karmøy, Lista, Bremander, Thamshavn and Finnfjord, to name a few. We have visited a wide range of melting plants and power plants. And we've seen everywhere to meet directors and trade union leaders who are interested in innovation, in investing in the environment and energy efficiency, and in making it as clean and as good as possible in the community so that not the industrial enterprises are perceived as something undesirable, but actually as something you want to have in your community. And I think they succeed very well when you look at the results. There have been many investment projects that have beenimplemented both in the field of growth and emissions reduction. It shows that industry is in fact the part of Norwegian industry which can point to significant reductions in its emissions, despite a significant increase in production. There are many additional investment projects that can be realised — still within an increment and emissions reduction. This also applies to the development of completely new production methods, such as one looks at Elektem, with their carbotermic aluminium production, which, if obtained, can cut CO2 emissions per. tonnes of aluminium produced with 30 pst. This is a technology that can be exported to other countries, which can therefore have a major positive impact on world energy consumption, but also on world emissions. Norwegian industry is thus our Nokia in terms of developing solutions such as cutting CO2 emissions from power-generating industries globally. We asked these industry leaders and trade unionists what they needed to trigger these investments in Norway. Lower pay was not required for employees or relaxed environmental requirements relative to the rest of the world. They can survive in high-cost countries such as Norway if they have productivity to offset higher costs. But what is relevant is predictability of power supplies and prices as well as CO2 costs, which is the theme of the next inter-pelling debate. If they got this straight, they would have managed the risk in terms of costs and future regimes to such an extent that many of them said that then we can make investment decisions relatively quickly. However, the lack of clarifications here, and therefore a relatively high risk to the enterprise, led them to hold back — even before the financial crisis became an obvious fact. Then I get into the theme of industrial power. It's not the first time the theme has been up. There have been many promises around it, and there have also been launches so-called action packages from the Government. An eight-point package of measures was randomly launched a few days before the last inter-pelling debate on this last year. But it is worth noting that despite these so-called action packages, Industry Energy is still planning to have a mark in front of the Stortinget in June this year, too, to protest at what they feel as a failure to honour the promises. So even though a political try to sell this as a finished case, where the government has now done what it can, and it's only up to the industry and the power industry to get together, the industry doesn't experience it the same way. Then I think we should listen to the industry and take the discussion seriously. Then there's a part that means that industrial power agreements have been concluded in the last few months, and it shows that the system works. Vattenfall has entered into an agreement. Government has entered into an agreement. It shows that some industrial companies have to have the power to survive in competition, but that doesn't mean that's how they thought it would be. When you talk to these industry leaders, for example. on the Houses in relation to the Vattenfall contract, they say very clearly that this is not a long-term solution, this is a temporary solution, until there is better framework conditions. But you can't shut down production for a few years in a lack of power, just because you have to wait for an industrial power regime. When you conclude an industrial power agreement of eight years, it goes without saying that it's not the long-term solution, when you have a 20-40 year horizon on what you're doing. You want to be as secure as possible in order to be calm and clear about the kind of financial commitments you have in the future. The industrial power agreements that have been concluded in the last few months might as well have been concluded under any other government. There is nothing in what has happened now, that has happened because this government has done something special in relation to the regime that applied, for example. The Bondevik II Government. The French industrial power model then stands out as very topical. Here we see a model where the industry and power industry go together. Industry is guaranteed power at an approximate self-cost price by pre-purchasing electricity by the industry and thus contributing capital to the power company that can expand power as needed. Thus, the industry appears to be the owner, it gets self-sufficiency, even though it is formally the power company that owns it. In this way, the desire of this government to guarantee public ownership of all hydropower is also taken into account. Therefore, this should be more interesting than what I have experienced that the government treats it as. The French model is based on nuclear power stations. It's also the Finnish model. I was visiting the Finnish power company that controls this, last summer. There is no doubt that this gives very favourable prices to the Finnish industry. If you want to get something similar in Norway, you probably have to rely on hydropower, because alternative, acceptable currents in Norway are too expensive. It is known that several hydropower projects have been built in connection with industry, for example: construction of the aluminium works at Karmøy and Röldal-Suldal hydropower plants. This possibility now disappears as a result of the fall-back regime, by the fact that the industry cannot directly enter as owners. Then an industrial power model is once again a very good way to get this going. That's why I challenge the government to say how to actively work to get the French model in place. It is no longer enough to say that industry and power companies must come together, knowing that the power companies that want to expand more hydropower in order to fill an industrial power regime with power would not be allowed to expand that hydropower. The government’s answer in a Question Time in October was that small-scale power could then be built up. It's also completely unrealistic when you start counting the terawatt hours and costs. I hope that we can get a clarification from the Government on how to put hydropower policy and industrial power policy in a context that works.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e394	First of all, I would like to say that I think the interpellant had a constructive input to the debate, when he wanted to find a platform and a common entrance to a topic that I fully agree with is important. It's a theme on which it's quite natural to have a political focus. Of course, I also fully agree that predictability is a key here. A great deal of what can be done to plan for major industrial activities is to know what the framework is. I'm going to have as part of my entrance that I'm going to go through what I think is the framework for the industry's future business. It is such that we in the Government are concerned about the conditions of the power-intensive industry in Norway. Our objective is to provide a basis for continued industrial development and new investment in our country. The workplaces in the power-intensive industry are not only important for local communities but also for the country as a whole. For this reason, the Government has paid great attention to precisely the framework conditions for this industry. The power-intensive industry, which is largely export-oriented, is also particularly affected by the economic situation in these days, and the Government is concerned that this industry will survive the economically difficult times we now see. At the same time, it is important for us to facilitate the long-term, good framework conditions for the power-intensive industry. The government has made considerable efforts to identify measures targeting the power-intensive industry. We have visited other European countries to look at the solutions they have chosen and have been implemented there. We have also carried out detailed investigations on possible measures we can take at home. In view of this extensive and thorough work, the Government presented its actions to the State budget industry in the autumn. The basis for the measures is a good balance of power, long-term commercial contracts and the good terms and conditions under which the industry operates on network leases, exemption or reduction of electricity charges and support schemes from Enova. The government’s consolidation model, including the proposal for rentals that are currently being consulted, after it was sent out two days ago, also offers industrial opportunities and just predictability. In total, government action will provide a good framework for the power-intensive industry in Norway. As a major consumer, it is particularly important for industry to have a good balance of power. This government has given high priority to making the Norwegian power supply less vulnerable. Enova’s activity in developing the market for new energy solutions makes a significant positive contribution to the energy situation. To date, Enova has concluded contracts that give approximately 10,1 TWh per. years of increased energy production or energy saving. This summer, we set a new target of 18 TWh by the end of 2011. Concession treatment is a key instrument of energy policy. The overall plan and the Watercourse Protection Plan provide a framework for what can be applied for within hydropower. A thorough, quality, concessional treatment is central to ensuring sound resource use and environmentally friendly deployment of hydropower and other renewable energy. We have therefore strengthened the NVE’s capacity in concession treatment in the 2009 State budget. It will double from 2005 to 2009. Hydropower is particularly a priority in the concession treatment, in particular for regulatory projects. This means opportunities for the power-intensive industry in relation to the issue of access to power. In 2007, the Ministry laid down guidelines for small-scale power. The guidelines shall strengthen the basis for an overall assessment of concession requests and contribute to predictability. Similar guidelines for wind power have also been laid down. Guidelines are now being worked on dealing with issues relating to the environmental audit of older watercourse concessions. I gave a first answer in this connection for a short time, after the cases have been relatively long. With effect from 2005, increased hydropower generation equivalent to about 2,4 TWh per. years. Of these, small-scale power stations represent about 1 TWh per. years. The remainder is related to the refurbishment and expansion of existing installations and new installations above 10 MW. In 2007, hydropower projects corresponding to an annual production of about 1,2 TWh were authorised. Of this, barely 0.8 TWh per. years of small-scale power, the remainder being refurbishment and extensions and new installations above 10 MW. Furthermore, hydropower projects with an annual total production of about 7,5 TWh have been notified and reviewed. Of these, renovations, extensions and new installations account for more than 2,5 TWh per. years. The rest are small-scale projects. So we're actually talking about volumes that matter. Overall, this represents a significant and valuable contribution to increasing renewable energy production in Norway. It is an important contribution to a good balance of power, which also benefits the power-intensive industry. In Enova’s work on the conversion of energy use and production, industry is important. Enova has its own industrial support programme and provides partial funding through investment support to trigger the implementation of energy-efficient processes, energy recovery and conversion to the use of renewable energy sources. Norwegian industry and Enova have recently concluded a cooperation agreement to make industry more energy efficient and to increase the use of renewable energy sources. For the period 2001–07, Enova reported a contractual profit of 2.8 TWh per. years, and total aid has been granted to industry of about DKK 0.5 billion. Large parts of industry have ensured predictable and long-term access to power through commercial agreements and self-production. By 2020, power-intensive industry enterprises have a coverage of over 85 pst. of its power consumption through commercial power agreements, power on government terms and its own power generation. The ability of industry to conclude long-term commercial agreements is essential for industrial development in Norway. The government is very pleased that such power agreements have reached a large extent. Only in the autumn have two commercial power agreements with a total volume of approximately 38 TWh, divided over 10-20 years, also concerned by the inter-pellant, been concluded. Long-term agreements provide a predictable framework for industry. Such agreements may be specially adapted individually so that they are suitable for each enterprise. For example, agreements may be concluded where the power price depends on product prices or other business or industry-specific conditions. The government has presented clear objectives and expectations to the state's own power company, Statekraft in the biggest of ownership. In the Storing Message, it says, among other things: att ‘State power shall work within the EEA legislation to meet industry’s needs for stable and long-term power supplies. The Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade assumes, inter alia, that State power exhibits a high degree of flexibility by putting together bilateral agreements consisting of several elements such as product price, currency, indexes, flexibility with regard to off-takes and energy prices. [[...]] At the same time, I would like to point out that it is positive and important that other power companies also enter into long-term power contracts with the industry. We have several examples of this – the last time Hydro and Vattenfall signed an agreement of nearly 18 TWh over eight years last September. This builds up under the market for long-term power contracts and reveals the different ways in which industry can meet its power needs. Industry and trade unions have stressed the importance of being able to form a purchasing consortium, where several companies can join forces to meet their power needs. The starting point is a consortium in France. The government has had an open dialogue with the industry and the trade union movement and received input from them about this. The government is in favour of establishing a purchasing consortium for power-intensive industry in Norway. We have therefore said that we will actively organise the consortium by providing grants to the power-intensive companies involved. The grant shall have a function similar to that of the tax advantages granted to the undertakings participating in the purchasing consortium in France. This will include, inter alia: state that the aid shall be within the scope of the EEA de minimis legislation. Industry must be responsible for the establishment of the consortium and for all commercial aspects. The government's consolidation model also offers opportunities for industrial development. While we have ensured and strengthened that the hydropower remains on public hands, our solution also allows for private ownership of up to one third of the power companies. We have, as I said, also been in favour of renting power for up to 15 years. In addition, the government received a recording from Norwegian Industry last autumn. Norsk Industri has, among other things: proposed changes to the concession system. The changes are based on long-term power contracts with the power-intensive industry, e.g. through a consortium, shall count positively or be a requirement for concession to build hydropower plants. Moreover, changes in the tax system have been proposed. The government has carefully assessed the proposal and concluded that it cannot be implemented. I have sent a reply letter to Norwegian Industry about this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e438	I have to thank you for the answer. At the same time, I am a little disappointed – and not only a little, but quite disappointed – because very much of what we heard here, one could really have read by reading what was then Minister of Oil and Energy Åslaug Hagas' posts in the Storting in an interpellation debate a year ago. It went on exactly the same – the general arrangements of the government, without taking into account that it is not what the industry necessarily asks for. Industry expects a more comprehensive solution, for example: an industrial power regime based on the French model, which actually provides something in addition to what it can obtain in the market anyway, namely power at self-sufficiency. Industry has said that it is willing to go in with capital to ensure that it builds up power, so that in reality it is the one that builds out, without formally standing as owner, as one respected in the case of the fall-back. But that point really ignores the Council of States. And that's the problem. Industry could do what it has done now, under any previous government, because it's just about using the market that exists. So there's no political handshakes coming in any way. The current Minister of Energy Åslaug Haga also mentioned the French model, and said that here we would like to contribute, but the industry and the power industry are responsible for getting started. And what's happened in one year? We haven't gotten a step closer. And when Industry Energy already announces and has reserved the space in front of the Stortinget for a much more peaceful demonstration than the one experienced yesterday, it is a signal that one does not consider the Government to have delivered. Yeah, it's nice to hear the council talking about what goals you have for the industry, but Rosseland Ball Club, which is my local football team at Bryne in the fourth and fifth divisions, may also have the goal of beating Manchester United. And they can make very nice plans about everything they're going to do. The point is, if you don't have the right one, the chance of doing it is very small. And the government doesn't have the right layer here in terms of instruments, so that the objectives and the instruments are not linked. It's good that the Council of State is talking about hydropower. There are completely different signals coming from the Ministry of Oil and Energy than from the Ministry of Environment. The problem is when these two objectives are not clarified in the two departments, because then there is no clarity as to what is the long-term strategy. Hydropower is one of the power technologies in Norway for which there are no concrete objectives in terms of TWh. Not even small power plants shall be included in the Green Certificate Scheme if the Government’s Soria Moria Declaration is to apply. Then I have to ask the Council of State: what are his objectives for hydropower? It's okay that a little TWh is being expanded every year, but none of this is being linked up for use in the industry. None of this is connected to allowing the industry to take it out for its own consumption. And when you look at the rental scheme in 15 years, and it's about partnership, there's nothing of what's long enough or big enough to make it an industrial approach to industry. It's going to be a financial position at best, and that's not what you want with the hydropower – I thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e453	In particular, I can share the views of Solvik-Olsen's representative on football – at least in the previous season there was something missing from individual teams. But I won't let it go any further; some of us rejoiced over what happened a little bit further up in the division. But that there are significant gaps in instruments and stratification in the context of the topic we are discussing here, I sincerely disagree. I believe that the sum of what we have of instruments now, the sum of what I have presented here today, is something that matters to the industry – it concerns network rental, it concerns access to power and it concerns electricity charging. These are important instruments for industry. I also understand that the representative Solvik-Olsen is very focused on production. I believe that when we now have a line of measures, production opportunities for which concession is requested, it is a contribution to this predictability. When the representative of Solvik-Olsen is concerned with predictability, I also think it is nice that, at the same time, he believes it is a problem that the former Minister of Energy and the current Minister of Energy have a message that is in the same street. I would like to say that for industry, it must be a certainty to see that this is a long-term policy, which means that one knows what one has to deal with. In the same way, I also believe that what I have said here today is a clarification, a clarification, given the stable framework conditions for the industry. Then the representative Solvik-Olsen is calling for its own objectives for hydropower. I believe that what we are now seeing in terms of hydropower is a positive development, a development in which the will to make use of the potential associated with hydropower generation is great. The main challenge in recent years has been the formation of an excessive queue of applications. There has not been a lack of any targets, objectives, that have hindered development and development, but we have actually not been able to handle the applications that have come, and we have not been able to realize the projects that have been wanted. We are doing something about that, and I believe that the initiative taken by the Government, and the decision taken this year by the Stortinget to double the capacity for concessional treatment in NVE, is an important contribution to predictability and organisation towards the power-intensive industry – because it is the sum of power generation that contributes to the predictability of the representative Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e464	Let me start by saying that I also share the opinion of the Council of State that the interpellant had a constructive approach to the problem. And then you'd better see how the end and the exit are going to be. The interpellant actually started by defining that there was a need to clarify whether the industry should wait for a so-called authority system, a politically defined system, or a market-based system. I just want to stress on that very issue that it has never been indicated that we should have a system of government for industry – on the contrary, we have said very clearly that we wanted it to be established under EEA law a system where the industry was given access to power. It has been and is still our starting point on this matter. Then it is easy to agree that the power-processing industry in our country accounts for an important share of the total value creation that we all enjoy. There has been – and still is, despite the financial crisis – significant investment, and investment plans, in the power-generating industry. There are important positions for the future that this industry holds through it. Therefore, it has been, and it is, essential for the Government to ensure the power-generating industry predictable and good framework conditions. So it's actually also so that essentially this type of industry has exactly that security. Despite having discussed the power balance in this country, it is initially a good force balance, and it is improved by the measures taken by the Government. There are possibilities to conclude long-term commercial contracts. They might have been even better off with industry's eyes. We have good conditions relating to grid rental for this type of industry, we have exemptions or reductions in electricity charges for this type of industry, and we also have relatively good support schemes at Enova. 85 pst. the industry has contracts covered. There is no basis for saying that those agreements are not satisfactory, on the contrary, they underpin important production and important investments. But that there are challenges that, if solved, will improve the situation, are undoubtedly right. Fortunately, we have gained a broader political commitment to the power-generating industry lately, that is obviously positive. Parties that previously indicated that the market alone was to determine the content of future contracts are now in favour of a more active political role. That's great, of course. Perhaps it was not quite so great that some of the same batches through the treatment of the fall-back institute or concession system were willing to park the wide public ownership and control of electricity production for the benefit of private owners. The further road is now about maintaining and, where appropriate, developing the framework conditions that lead to new investments and correct transitions. One of the measures will undoubtedly be the establishment of a purchasing consortium. Such a model — where the state can be the organiser and where one or more groupings of industrial enterprises take commercial responsibility for setting up, bidding and organising the model — is a good track to solve some of the challenges that are in a completely ordinary and open market. It is strengthening the market position of the power-intensive industry. That the Council of State now determines that the Government will actively facilitate such a model, for example: a possible grant scheme corresponding to the French consortium tax model is undoubtedly an important step in the right direction. In that model, those entering the consortium may be able to depreciate some of the investments they make in relation to the model. In addition to this, the Government has now sent to the hearing a case in which, among other things, industry may be allowed to lease power generation for a period of 15 years. It's claimed that 15 years isn't long-term, but based on the system, I think it's a very good starting point for industry as well. If you see the possibilities that rentals can provide with a consortium system, it will, in my opinion, be such that the possibilities are significantly enhanced according to today's situation. In addition, industrial enterprises, in line with other investors, have the option of entering into power generation ownership by up to one third. As a last instrument, the Government has underlined that State power should also play a role here. Overall, the possibilities and framework conditions of the Government, and what it is doing now, will be such that the industry can fully secure competitive conditions in Norway. With my “industrial heart” I have good faith in the future with that starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e481	Power-processing industry in Norway exports $200 billion a year. It is very environmentally friendly, not only in terms of CO2 emissions and resource consumption. Also, in the case of emissions of NOx and sulphur and a wide range of other more or less harmful emissions, Norwegian industry really represents a precursor industry with emissions at a very low level in one-tenth of our competitors. Once we've become world leaders – we're actually within these fields – in relation to the production of silicon, which goes largely to solar cells and aluminium that make cars more environmentally friendly and that enables us to build wind turbines, it's because Norwegian industry has invested and invested all the way to have the most modern and environmentally friendly equipment all the time. Then it's important that we make a regime that makes the industry not only survive with the production it has today, but also enables it to expand to defend ever new investments. There are some power-processing companies in Norway that have power contracts even after 2011. But it's the ones who were tricked enough not to trust the majority in this room, the ones who didn't support the majority when they said that this was a simple thing to get in place, only we get the power. On the other hand, those who pride themselves on the Government do not have the same situation today – many of them have three to four years left with power contracts. I have also participated in many visits to the tour to which my colleague Ketil Solvik-Olsen referred. One of the visits was to Elkem Thamshavn in my own state, which now estimates an investment of 500 million. kr. It's the second largest industrial investment north of Dovre in the last 20 years, only the expansion of Elkem Lake is larger. This will lead to better quality silicon and more jobs at a time when more jobs are clearly needed. What does Thamshavn meet with? Firstly, there is no clarification in relation to the industrial power regime, but we also have a climate quota law that does not take account of the growth in production in Thamshavn. The councils were in on what I was talking about before. He said that he wants new investments – but it does not help what the Council of State wants or believes, unless the Council of State manages to create a regime that makes industry feel that it is safe to invest in Norway. He talked about investigations, about what we can do, being presented in the budget. I have not noticed that the power-processing industry in Norway has fired some new year’s rockets — whether with or without a stick — for what was in the budget. And then we're equidistant. If industry is not convinced that the framework conditions for investing in Norway are better than the framework conditions for investing in other countries, it is, fortunately or sadly, that industry is not forced to invest in Norway. All the world's government investigations will never be in line with the industrial power regime as long as industry is deprived of its power. I was also present at the Bioenergy Conference in Telemark just before Christmas. The council then said that he hoped for a higher power price to stimulate the increased expansion of bioenergy. But if, on the one hand, the Council of State hopes for a higher market price for power, and at the same time says that market-based power contracts are to save Norwegian industry, I do not understand how this is happening. It is clear that, in line with the EEA Agreement, neither State power nor anyone else can sell its power at a lower price than the assumed market price in the future. When the council then hopes that the power price will be both 60, 70 and 80 cents per. kilowatt-hours to put in place more bioenergy, the industry will also meet with the same price. Then I note, in relation to the answer given by the Council of State, and insofar as the contribution from the representative of Aasland is also concerned, that it is now quite clear that there will not be an industrial power regime in this period. It's a shame, because the Soria Moria statement says it's coming. The Soria Moria Declaration also states that the protection of the tissue is to come. Then I hope that if you postpone the industrial power regime, you can also postpone the protection of the Wefsna after the election. So I just want to quote Billy Fredagsvik – there's been a lot of football today, and he's a famous RBK supporter: ‘If an industrial power regime is not in place during the spring, I can promise demonstrations and markings at every industrial site in Norway. The protests outside of Stortinget last year will shine like a flat breeze in proportion.’ [[...]] I'm going to be present at most of those demonstrations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e509	First of all, I just want to say that this is a very important interpellation. The other thing I want to say is that it's really a weird show. Here we are in the last six months of the fourth year of government, and then the representatives of the government parties stand here and talk about the possibilities that exist, as the hourglass is about to run out. In 2005, the representatives of the government parties stood, and the fist from Stortinget’s pulpit was shown. They explained what could be implemented under EU competition law, despite the fact that the content of what was EU competition law, which also applies to Norway, was clearly known. They told us, and demanded that the industrial power regime should come into place only if there was a new government in place. Today, this has been reduced to talking about opportunities within the concept of de minimis aid, etc. Hasn't it been taken into account that Norwegian industry was tricked in 2005? Has it not yet been taken into account that three lost years have been delivered to Norwegian industry? It is shown today that 85 pst. has concluded long-term agreements – which are long-term by 2020. I think there are shared views about it. But do you not care about those who believed in the promises, those who made sure that we have a red-green government today, who made sure that the red-green parties won the elections in all Norwegian industrial cities and municipalities? These waited – the proud of today’s government to deliver. The government has not delivered. You have not followed this up, and you have to almost conclude today that with open eyes you tricked the Norwegian industry. Then I think you'd rather stand by, when you're going to write the final story for this, to present a greater sincerity and tell Norwegian industry what is the scenario in the future – because you haven't. One has performed, and delivered, a fall-back institute that takes away from the industry the only industry had, the only one that was owned by itself, which for 100 years alone has gone to deliver power to Norwegian industrial production – it has been taken. The financial directors of Hydro, Elkem, or others, are hardly the ones who have reason to doubt this, but they on the floor should be despaired. I am convinced that another Council of State will be pleased to state that the protection of the tissue – in another forum – must be able to rejoice very much. I am not sure if the Norwegian industry has reason to rejoice over this. There is reason to ask the Council of State whether he is satisfied with the only company we have in Norway on the supply side in terms of power, State power – whether he is satisfied with the effort, will and ability of State power, the main instrument of the state, has so far provided in this area. Is the council satisfied, or is he not satisfied? It does not last in today's debate to refer to Enova. After all, Enova cannot be the answer in every debate we have in Stortinget on the future of Norwegian industry, the future of the production of new renewable energy, or whatever it may be. It just doesn't last. Enova has to do her job, but that's not the answer to the challenges we're facing. This is a question of trying to find solutions — and it is very important to get solutions, to do everything you can to get a so-called French solution in Norway. But then one has to make sure that there is more than one actor, who must also show the will to find solutions for the Norwegian industry to invest in a future in Norway. That's where you have to start the job. Then you also have to start the job of increasing the supply side in terms of more power, more energy in Norway, if you are to meet at all a safe and good future for the production of the most environmentally friendly products you have to offer the world market. And so far they have come from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e526	A little visit to the representative Ivar Kristiansen first, because I think the way the representative Ivar Kristiansen puts this forward, just becomes too simple when he says that the council of states is careful to refer to Enova. It must mean that the representative Ivar Kristiansen needs to sharpen his ears a little. If he had heard what the Council of State said, he affected quite a number of different aspects and measures, such as: Consortium, which is central here, Statkraft’s role, electricity tax, power balance and much more. So Ivar Kristiansen should maybe read through the post again. For us in SV, this is an important matter. We are concerned that we need to establish long-term power agreements with industry, and in particular agreements that encourage environmentally friendly investment. I want to refer to an exciting project at a melting plant that I have visited. It is an example of projects that can be realised with particularly good environmental benefits. This is about Finnfjord Melting Plant in Lenvik. It is a company that currently accounts for one third of all greenhouse gas emissions in Troms, measured in CO2 equivalents. The melting plant has presented plans for becoming the world's first ferro-silicon producer without CO2 emissions, i.e. CO2 neutral. In the longer term, they want to become CO2 negative. Finnfjord Melting Station has set up a three-point plan to achieve this goal. First, they want to recover large amounts of waste heat and produce electricity from it, then they want to use the residual heat to produce bioethanol of cellulose, i.e. wood, and finally they want to build a coal-fired power plant with CO2 cleaning and run the waste gases from the melting plant through the same treatment plant. So they want to become climate neutral. A prerequisite is, among other things, long-term power contracts providing for the necessary predictability. Finnfjord is one of many actors who want a consortium model. SV took the initiative of the former Council of State, Åslaug Haga, to assess different European models, to provide a study trip to different EU countries. The French consortium model was one of several models that we referred to as a possible way out of our EEA problem. The government has now taken a positive view of a consortium model, and it is our hope that this, along with the other measures to which the Council of State has referred, will be a key to getting the good investment in Norwegian industry. See if the first initiative of the Norwegian Industry organisation is now rejected in a letter from the Council of State today, we nevertheless believe that the Council of State and the Norwegian Industry should sit together and try to find an alternative. I'm sure you'll try as well. These are issues involving between 25 000 and 30 000 jobs and a number of local communities in Norway, to a large extent in the districts, and are of course very important. On behalf of SV, I would also like to stress that this is about the environment and climate and about positioning in the fight for the future jobs. A forward-looking industrial policy needs to address the climate and environmental perspective. The threat of climate change is the greatest challenge of our time. It sounds like a cliché, but it's not less serious for that reason. In particular, it is within this perspective that, in our opinion, the EEA country Norway has an opportunity to obtain stable and long-term solutions for the benefit of both industry and the environment. SV is committed to developing a green process industry, with enterprises located in the world on new environmental technologies and on solutions to reduce climate emissions, and to increasing energy efficiency and recycling. Green-power investment aid based on large quantities of waste heat and an increase in industrial potential particularly hit the ferro-alloy industry and wood processing, which has large quantities of high-temperature waste heat that can be exploited. In 2003, the potential for 5–6 TWh was identified. It's probably a lot higher today. Through waste heat plants up to 20-30 pst. recovered and transformed into power for the network by the energy of a melting plant. We think this is exciting possibilities. We've exploited some of them, but we have to exploit a lot more. Finally, a small visit to the representative Ivar Kristiansen and his party Right, who sat with government until 2005. At that time the Right was at least completely uninterested in getting anything that tasted of anything other than market solutions within this area. The Right-Handled Ministry of Oil and Energy wrote as late as 2005: ‘In addition to the provisions of the EEA Agreement, the Government emphasises that schemes based on long-term power contracts are not flexible and less targeted.’ So that's a little bit like that -- yeah, yeah.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e561	There is an important debate on the interpellant today. I would also like to thank him for his introduction to this interpellation. What today's interpellation is about is the framework conditions for important corner stone companies and thousands of jobs around our country. Employees and communities have been waiting a long time. They have shown great patience, and the industry and the employees deserve to be taken more seriously in this matter than we have seen so far. The Christian People's Party is on the industrial worker's side in this matter. We will do everything we can to put in place a solution that will ensure that the powerful industry in Norway is life-created, that climate considerations are taken into account, and that jobs are maintained. The government is in dialogue with the industry, but there's a dialogue where there's little concrete to find, if I'm allowed to quote what industry leaders themselves say when we talk to them. Then we're really back to the treatment of St.prp. No 1st@item: The government shows which model it's going in for, but there's little content to find. After all, we've got the contents of the Council of State's ten-minute posts in this interpellation. The Council of State says in its statement that considerable work has been done on monitoring. They have been on a study trip, and there have been many thorough investigations. It is a hope for industry, but also for political Norway, that we will soon be able to share in the results of these many thorough investigations carried out by the Government, because that is just how we can help secure this important industry. In the end, I would like to take a little visit to the posts of the representative Terje Aasland. He began his post by talking about authority versus market, and said that they wanted to be within the EEA, and that there would be access to power. But I don't think it's too much to say that it's going to be cheaper power. Everyone heard what the red-green politicians promised in the 2005 election campaign. It was this that was the message that there should not only be access to power. I think we're about to be true about what policy we stand for. That policy has turned out to be difficult – it has been admitted by the Council of State of Åslaug Haga in this room on 12 February 2008 – the election promises have been difficult to honour, but history is enough to promise cheaper power. For the red-greens, it has proved to be difficult – perhaps impossible – to comply with the regime of which we are part in the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e576	I thought I'd start talking about an active business policy. An active industrial policy is contrary to business neutrality — which will often be a liberalist solution — a policy that builds up among the industries where our country has natural advantages. The rich supply of hydropower that we have many places in the country has given us the opportunity to build a power-consuming industry. It has created employment in many districts, while one has benefited from local-produced power for local production. This has been a conscious and desirable policy on the part of Norwegian government – and a sensible policy – which, in spite of a higher salary level, has made Norway competitive within the production of, among others. aluminium and silicon metal. Cheap power to industry through power contracts has been part of the idea of an active industrial policy. The competition law imposed on Norway by the EEA Agreement prevents us from ensuring the cheap power of power-generating industries through power-driven power-driven contracts. National goals for value creation, construction and employment are therefore made difficult by a competition law that gives rise to an idea of business neutrality, where this type of local advantage should not be used to generate nourishment, even if it helps to build up under one of the purest productions of this type in the world and with minimal losses of energy in the network. The centre party may be aware of its opposition to the EEA Agreement. But I still think it is right to mention this, because the disadvantages that result from the agreement are so obvious. Norway is required to choose policy solutions other than those we had chosen if we had not been subject to this competition law through the EEA. The Centre Party acknowledges that a majority in this Chamber supports Norwegian membership of the EU through the EEA Agreement. Then we are busy looking at what can be done within the agreement, in order to facilitate the Norwegian power-intensive industry in the best possible way. That work may take place along several lines. For the Central Party, it is of particular importance that the Government be followed up on its work on an active European policy, precisely in order to achieve a long-term effort to improve the framework conditions for this industry and to continue the important work. This is not static, this is the dynamics in it. This policy, including in the EU, is still moving, and it is important that we are active to influence where we can. It is important to stress that the EEA Agreement does not prevent Norwegian industry from concluding long-term commercial agreements with energy producers. Governments have today outlined a number of possible ways to move closer to today’s regime – one that can be seen in more detail – such as cooperation on energy efficiency improvement through the Enova system, targeted support within the EEA legislation, assessment of network leases, the activities we have in fiscal policy, as well as active support for the power-generating industry, if they wish to establish a procurement consortium, and to open up the activities involved, with the corresponding function chosen when applying the tax advantages to French industry. The fall-back solution, as a broad majority in this room secure last fall, also helps to facilitate the further development of the Norwegian power-requiring industry, and so do the recently presented proposals for renting out by force. Then, of course, adequate power is a provision for the power-consuming industry. There, the government has great ambitions for additional increases in the production of renewable energy, and the opposition here in the hall, like the Government, is impatient to get this output up. That's good. But I have to say that the wretched description that Solvik-Olsen's representative is constantly repeating in this room when it comes to the lack of new power generation, it is not possible to recognize itself in – simply. The central party believes it is important that the government assesses a whole range of measures to ensure an industry that is important to the country and is a cornerstone industry that secures jobs in many communities around our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e596	I share the interpellant's description of the Norwegian power-intensive industry, which is world-leading in terms of environmentally friendly and energy-efficient solutions. Several of the companies have an improvement potential, but the main description is comprehensive. This part of industry, like other industries, will face a clear need for transformations and market adaptations. However, the Left is concerned that industry has a framework that allows it to develop further in Norway. Access to force under foreseeable conditions is an important factor in this context. The starting point for this debate is that the Storting too long, and with a broad majority behind the resolution, has determined that the epoch of political power contracts is over. A new epoch with this type of contract is neither possible nor desirable. Several companies have aligned themselves accordingly and concluded market-based contracts with which many of them can live well. Many companies have hesitated to enter into such contracts because they believed that once again there would be an opportunity to have their own power regime for industry. That uncertainty explains with expectations created before the 2005 elections, and on some other occasions, by representatives of the government parties. For they unequivocally stated that they wanted and would put in place their own regime with cheaper power for the industry. It was just a matter of will, and it would be a short time after a government change before such a regime was in place. It was a bluff, and at least as wrong as it is that those who presented it knew it. We have now been confirmed that there will not be a separate price regime for the industry, because it is not possible, says representatives from the Government, and they show the companies to the market. When they are now to show what the Government has done, set out against the confrontation with the promises made, representatives from the Government refer to the contracts concluded by Government. After all, there are market-based contracts that would have been possible long before this government took over, and which was the direction that the majority of the population pointed out when one said no to policy-driven contracts. I believe it has damaged the industry that the red-green parties did not speak the truth, and the waiting time has cost expensive. Now there are new expectations related to a copy of the French industrial power model. I think you're going to have problems delivering solutions that will work in Norway. The most important thing now is to clarify what the Government will contribute. Today we've got this clarification, and it's almost zero. One leaves this to industry itself. What will be the problem then is that we do not have a shortage of buyers in Norway, nor do buyers who can merge. The problem is that there is a shortage of sellers who need financial assistance to finance development projects. In Norway, the situation is that one has power companies that have capital for development but that one does not have development projects. The value of transferring the French model to Norway is my doubt, but it gets the actors to clarify the process that is going to go further. I have nothing against that a test out this way. I think it further troubles the matter that one in the case of the fall-back solution did not meet the industry's desire to deal with part of the force during a transitional period. Nor does it improve the fact that one has been hesitant to provide a good framework for renewable power generation. The scourge we are now seeing with regard to the Renewables Directive is part of this picture. The message the industry receives from the Government today is that it should deliver, is what they have delivered. This means that those who are dissatisfied with the lifting break can start ordering buses for the announced demonstration in Oslo. There is good reason to confront the Government with their breach of promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e611	That's about. one year since the representative Ivar Kristiansen from the Right had a similar interpellation. Should I praise the opposition for something, it must be that they at least keep this matter warm. But what did they do to resolve this matter before 2005? Everyone in this room knows the answer. Today's government has had and continues to have this type of industry in focus. It tells us that it is incredibly important for jobs, for District Norway and for technological environmental benefits. These industrial workplaces employ up to 20,000 people. In addition, it is one of the most environmentally friendly industries in the world. One year ago, we said that if they get predictable and long-term power agreements, there's a value up to NOK 25 billion in investment. But this is a difficult matter, as policy-determined power prices are not compatible with the ESA legislation. Other European countries have developed solutions accepted by ESA. But then it is that all countries are not the same, and industry is not the same in the different countries. France has the model that can almost be implemented in Norway. This is agreed by industry and the trade union movement. The Government has therefore said that it will actively facilitate a consortium model by providing grants to the participating power-intensive companies, see below. St. pp. No 1 for 2008-2009. This must be within the scope of EEA legislation, and industry itself must be responsible for its establishment. At the same time, we have adopted a fall-back scheme that allows industry to own one third of the power company together with public funds. A consultation round now opens up opportunities for rental of hydropower production of up to 15 years. But the most important thing for industry is long-term, a good power balance and that the agreed volume is large enough. This is the whole basis for launching large investments in this type of industry. But we must not be blind to the fact that there can be no solutions other than a power regime that can help create development in the Norwegian industry. We have reductions in network rentals, exemptions from or reductions in electricity charges, and perhaps some of the package of measures that are coming will also have some real opportunities. Authorities need to follow up more closely the industry itself is researching to reduce power consumption and to reduce pollution and emissions. I know well about good environmental measures at Elkem Salten Werk and, as SVs Inga Marte Thorkildsen mentioned, Finnfjord Smelteverk. Here, Enova will play a big role. But we must not forget the role of Statkraft in relation to industry. The size point in connection with St.meld. No 13 for 2006-2007, An active and long-term ownership, the so-called ownership notification, that State power within the EEA Code should work to meet the needs of the industry with stable and long-term power supplies. It also states that it is expected that Statkraft will use flexibility by combining multi-item agreements. It is the production price, currency, index, etc. The last politically agreed contracts expire in two years, in 2011. I would simply say that it is urgent to sew together opportunities that stimulate development in the Norwegian industry, which are still one of the world's leaders in quality and not least in environmentally friendly production. With the climate problems we have around the world, we can't risk carbon leakage. Let us use the hydropower resources that Norway has for the continued development of industry and for the benefit of the climate. Finally, I would say that it had not been against me to satisfy the wishes of the market librarian and the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen that the industry would have power for self-sufficiency, but it would have been a dramatic confirmation of a tribute to the market that is often unearthed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e628	As a representative of the industrial community, Høanger, I also want to say a few words about this important topic that we have up today. I am pleased that this theme is being focused. I always am. First of all, what is said about authority contracts: it is not the industry that is in demand. I was active in the election campaign in 2005, I attended the trade union meeting, and we discussed this over many and long days. It is not the industry's demand. The actors' demand is of course long-termity and sufficient volume. That is what has been a repetition. Now that one is trying to do this to something else, let's just count the others. The industry actors also know that it is impossible to get authority contracts under the EEA rules, so it is not really a theme for all the meetings we have about this. So to the ability to get the industry just long-term and adequate volume. There may not be a single measure that turns into an industrial power regime, but it is the sum of measures that the authorities come with that will become an industrial power regime, as I see it. And the clear signals that went to Statkraft in the ownership message, that one should work to meet the needs of the industry, just as the representative Torny Pedersen pointed out here, were both important and correct. The signals probably never came from the previous government, but they came from a red-green government. I think it is very nice that the representatives from both the Right and the Advance Party no longer believe in the market forces themselves. I'll just write that down in my book with a big plus behind. But I actually don't quite understand that they need so much to accept that we're not in the goal when it comes to an industrial power regime, because I like the industry that hasn't got it in place. We're working on it all the time. The red-green and the minister use enormous energy to find solutions and not to give up. So to the representative Tord Lien, who quoted Billy Fredagsvik from Høyanger. I know Billy Fredagsvik well. We come from the same party team, and we've spent many and long days and hours discussing the framework conditions for the industry. These are constructive debates. There is neither suspense nor anything negative, but constructive debates on how together we can achieve goals. I agree with Billy Fredagsvik that this is a matter that has been delayed. I'm also impatient, and I guess everyone's sitting in the hall here. This has taken a very long time. But I disagree with you. Billy Fredagsvik in that we are not just going to use the French consortium model as he is, but that we are going to give better conditions than that model gives, because then we can quickly feel that it is not approved under the EEA rules. It's actually very important that we get a model that's being approved. The representative Kristiansen says we've been throwing away three years. No, we don't. He has not followed in the hour, because we have made a lot of efforts, and those actions are important. But what's important to say here is that the previous government actually throws away four years – without doing anything. They said it was impossible, and they didn't even try. I also believe that the representative Kvassheim knows better than the arguments he made when it comes to rehab. Because we don't want to play poker with the Home Fall Scheme. That was our main score. The purchasing consortium with the state that facilitates my thinking is absolutely a good track. That the Council of State determines that one will facilitate such a model is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. I also thought it was very exciting what the government has out on hearing now, and I am very pleased with the short hearing period that is when it owes rent. Because with that, along with the consortium model, I definitely thought we were on the right track. We may not really get to the point of what we want, but at least we're on the right track. In the end, I would like to call on the Minister for even closer dialogue with the Norwegian industry and trade unions, because it is important that we do this together. So I think we can have good reason to have good faith in the future also for the Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e651	A little bit of the challenge with such a debate was heard in the last post, where a designer constructs statements from the opposition that the opposition has not itself promoted, and then attacks them. So you stop discussing the contents, but ends up going into the trenches. It's sad. A little bit of what I have learned in today's interpellation is if we ask what measures we have today towards industry and industrial power that we did not have in 2007, that there is no answer. The councils were very proud that he had a message that was in line with what Åslaug Haga had. I could well say that yes, he also had a message that is in line with the Council of State that Enoch had – the third Minister of Energy we have had in this period. But that's bad news actually, that's not good news. Because what the industry has asked for is something different than what you had. Then it is not good to get on with the same message, without new solutions. Of the speeches that have been in the debate, I would like to make a special presentation to the representative of Thorkildsen. Yes, I've also been to Finnfjord Melting Station and got exactly the same great visions about what they can do. The problem is that they do not lack vision, because they do. The problem is that the framework conditions for industry make it impossible for them to realise the visions of the current policy, both because the industrial power solution promised by the Government does not exist and because the CO2 policy proposed by the Government after 2012 does not make it profitable to operate the type of activity in Norway. This government is a problem for Finnfjord Melting Plant, not a solution. I know that representatives of Finnfjord Smelteverk have been to the gallery today, and they have not been reassured by what they have heard. So to the representative Sande, who was dissatisfied with me not describing the government's hydropower policy more optimistically. It's possible I get to take self-criticism, and that I'm going to learn to look more lightly at the little things in life, but I have more visions on behalf of the energy sector in Norway. But I'd like to please the representative Sande to boast of the little things. Finally hydropower. The focus of the Council of State on that in its contribution I take it as an acceptance that this is a central instrument in relation to industry and industrial power. The problem that we have tried to discuss here today, at least from the Progress Party, is that the link between power and industry has disappeared, through the fall-back case in particular. The solutions that have been put in place instead of rental arrangements and joint ventures are not good enough. It's good enough if you're just out with financial speculation, it's not good enough if you have an industrial perspective of 30–40–50 years. Indeed, the increased production of many red-green representatives is a production that is not connected to industry in any way, either in contracts or in ownership. On the other hand, if one connects it to the Government's ambitions to export more force, it may be nice to cut coal power production on the continent, but it does not help to strengthen Norwegian industry in Norway. Direct ownership in some form is the best form of industrial power agreement. It has been deprived of industry by the Government, and it has not come up with the alternatives. The French industrial power solution could have been a model to be used in Norway to gain indirect ownership of the power that made it possible to take power out for self-sufficiency without being dependent on the government’s market fundamentalism in this area. I hope the Council of State in its last article can give a positive clarification on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e669	I note at the end of the debate that many of the participants in the debate have been disappointed with each other and with inputs and allegations, etc. I must also say that I am a little disappointed that what I perceive to be a little overarching input from the interpellant in relation to having to discuss the way forward, largely ends with becoming a description and criticism of things that are in place, for which there is a majority, and which are part of the framework that will apply in the future. So it's also about the predictability that was the entrance to the interpellant. If we really believe that we should provide for predictability and a stable framework for industry in the future, it is a point that we are also calling for the frameworks that have been put in place here, and that, from the point of view of security and investment, this is in fact the framework that will apply in the future. I believe that in my article I have described a policy that is just about increasing predictability. I believe that this is one of the most important things we can talk about in industrial policy in general. I believe that this is particularly important in relation to a so-called power-intensive, but also capital-intensive industry that we are talking about here. That's why I also believe that pointing out that it's a line from what's done by my predecessors, to what's my policy, is important. It is precisely helping to create that predictability. So there were some single elements that I just want to comment on briefly. The representative Tord Lien raised questions related to the power price, and he thought he heard that I had said at a bioenergy seminar in Skien that I hoped and wanted the electricity price to go up. What I described was not so much different from what most people in the power market describe, a situation where expectations at a higher power price are high because one expects that the pricing of energy will change, and that energy in general will have a different cost in the future. It is about the EU's quota system, a system that we are also part of, and it is about a general framework far beyond what we are discussing today. The question of the protection of the tissues was also raised. I can then only quite calmly – in so far as it is perceived as it is – those who have raised that matter, that there is a matter with which the government of course comes to the Stortinget, in line with what is stated in the Soria Moria statement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e680	Case No. So 2 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e699	This interpellance follows in some areas the previous interpellation, for the industry's framework conditions in a long-term time horizon. It is important for Norwegian industry to have a long-term perspective. As most people agree, Norwegian industry is among the world's most environmentally friendly industries. One produces metal much better, much more energy-efficient and much more environmentally friendly than in most other countries in the world. However, there is also a high potential for further technological development. Many of the industrial enterprises have shown this by having ongoing research and development projects that can bring about significant reductions in energy consumption, emissions and other things related to metal production. The problem is that many of these don't dare to invest. Of course, it is not possible for politicians to go in and out of control, but where uncertainty arises because of politically unsolved issues, we can definitely do something – not because we can always give a clear answer today, but because a clear principleal attitude can be a response enough to trigger investment in industry. Let's take a look at the assumptions of the industry. Should the industry be able to run, they must make money. They can't live on good intentions. It's pretty obvious to most people, but when we discuss politics, it seems like we're forgetting it anyway. The size has a co-responsibility to reduce both perceived and real risks in the areas that we can. The more political issues we resolve, the fewer uncertainties the industry needs to deal with when they do their calculations, and the more likely it is that they dare to make investment decisions. Me and my party colleagues in the Progress Party have had a comprehensive tour of the industry. None of the companies we have visited ask for alms, but they ask for equal treatment. They need security to ensure that the framework conditions provided are in line with those of the competing countries and that we do not have any extraordinary restrictions that give rise to excessive additional costs or have technology requirements that cannot be met. They will then be out of competition in the global market. There have been many questions about future CO2 policies, and it creates uncertainty — not uncertainty in the form of a desire to abandon offensive policies in this area, but uncertainty about the conditions in Norway versus our competitors. That uncertainty I hope we can reduce with today's debate. No one can today respond to what is actually happening after 2012 when today’s Kyoto agreement expires. Much of that will depend on what's happening in Copenhagen this year. There will be an exciting meeting in which Norway should contribute constructively. What we can guarantee today – yes, we can actually guarantee it – is that we in Norway should be in line with our competitors in framework conditions. That is often good enough for the industry, because they know that if their competitors are given strict conditions, they themselves can live under strict conditions. If their competitors get less strict conditions, they will have the same. They get an equal path to play on, and not what we've now experienced with today's quota law, that there are different sizes of paths. The current quota law creates fear, and that is also the reason for this debate. For those who were at yesterday's hearing of the Energy and Environment Committee on the revised climate allowances law of the Government, it was very clear both from the NHO, from the LO, from the Norwegian industry and from individual companies such as Celsa and NorFra Kalk that there will be no initial investment in Norwegian industry without equal treatment in terms of framework conditions – no initial investment. That's what this is all about. How are we going to further develop Norwegian industry and make sure that they will dare to make new investments, use the new technology that is coming, grow in Norway to expand abroad, and thus ensure that the metal produced in the world is becoming increasingly environmentally friendly and increasingly energy efficient? It has not been the Government's intention to ensure this non-discrimination. I'll give you three examples. In a letter from the then Environment Minister Bjørnøy to the Energy and Environment Committee dated 12 June 2007, she writes that after 2012, the Government wants all activities to be faced with the full cost of climate change associated with its activities, and it is working for such a solution in Europe as well. – There is therefore no pre-requisite that the EU should put itself on the same strict line, it was just that Norway should do so. During the debate of 18 December 2007 on the inclusion of the climate allowance law in the EEA Agreement, SVs Inga Marte Thorkildsen stated: ‘We have taken an important step beyond the EU when we have decided not to have free allowances after 2012.’ – A confirmation of the interpretation I had of Helen Bjørnøy’s statement. The representative Tore Nordtun from the Workers' Party wrote in a press release on 21 August 2008 that our view is that there should be no free allowances after 2012, I hope the EU will also come to this conclusion. So there is no pre-requisite for the EU to be involved, just a desire for the EU to follow suit. This is a completely wrong signal to the Norwegian industry – therefore this debate. A stricter system in Norway will not strengthen Norwegian business but weaken it. That's exactly the opposite of what we want, both for our own sake and for the environment. Norwegian industry already uses the best available technology in almost all of its processes. They've invested a lot in the last few years. They have managed to cut emissions of CO2 and other things significantly. The industry should therefore be rewarded, not punished, as the Government proposes after 2012. The industry can make a major contribution to further emission reductions in the future, but they must then know that they have a profitability today that ensures a surplus and thus capital for investment in R & D, and they must have faith in profitability tomorrow, so that they will continue operating in Norway and make new investments. Unilaterally strict framework conditions mean that the global market price of products remains unchanged, but the level of costs for Norwegian industry is increasing. So having strict strange conditions doesn't mean that one can take it back into the market price, that just means that the profit is less, and thus the ability to survive as an environmentally friendly enterprise is worse in the long run than for the companies operating from countries without strict restrictions. So it's part of the government that says in their argument that they assume that high CO2 costs will stimulate emissions. I fully agree with that – over time. The problem is that one does not get immediate emissions when one lacks the technology. It has to evolve first. If it had been the case that Norwegian industry had not used the best available technology, the argument would have been absolutely durable, but it has not, as Norwegian industry has largely done what they can on the emissions side. The cost of action for additional emissions cuts is much higher than under the CO2 quota law, and we must ensure that industry feels confident that they have competitive conditions over a long period of time in order for them to be able to take expensive measures today. If they are both penalised at full CO2 cost after 2012 and have to bear a cost of developing technology and investing in large, expensive emissions cuts above the quota price after 2012, then – and industry has also confirmed it – quota purchases will be the solution. It does not contribute to technological development as desired in Norway, nor does it contribute to national action. This is also confirmed by Stein Lier-Hanssen in Technik Ukeblad on the web on 17 November 2008. If we want national measures, the most important thing is to get to the framework conditions that trigger it – not to have the strictest possible legislation after 2012, if you actually get the opposite results. The industry is also provoked when they are told that they will have a tight allocation of CO2 allowances for environmental reasons, to see that the Government sells the allowances. As a result, CO2 emissions are not cut, but the industry loses competitiveness by additional costs and the State receives correspondingly higher revenues from quota sales. Therefore, it is good environmental policy to give a clear signal from the Government and the Storting that Norway will implement the EU Trade Directive from 2012. It will provide clarifications that can trigger good environmental and energy investment in industry. We're not going to change the amount of power, because that doesn't mean any difference in the number of allowances in circulation. The government can provide security today if it signals a good view of the revised EU Trade Directive. It was adopted on 17 December 2008. There is still a lot of work to be done on practical solutions that can create conflicts, but the EU has played its cards – it has been politically finalised in the EU's political body. The main difference between the current ETS Directive and the revised ETS Directive is the freedom of action of national authorities in relation to the allocation of allowances. Under the revised Directive, Norwegian industry will be able to expect quota allocation in line with the rest of its competitors in the EU, and that is very good. So what I hope the Council of State will confirm is: The Government considers the revised ETS Directive to be EEA-relevant. The Government will not exercise the right of reservation against the Directive. The answer to both of these challenges should be a loud one: Yes! Thirdly, the Government should say that one today does not consider negotiating adaptation texts to the Directive in order to have access to the creation of special Norwegian allocation rules. We have very poor experience of this in relation to today's quota law, and we should avoid it for the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e777	I realized that the previous debate ended in a round about who was disappointed about who. Then I can assure you that I am not disappointed with the Advancement Party. This is also because expectations are so low that it is very difficult to be disappointed. The fact that, in all debates on all environmental policy issues, the Progress Party is looking for what can slow things down is not surprising, and I am therefore no longer disappointed. It is in stark contrast to the attitude of the Government and, fortunately, also the majority of the population, which is to look for ways to drive forward the fastest possible environmental policy transformation of Norwegian business and international business, but of course not in such a way that Norwegian industry is particularly competitive. There is no intention of shutting down Norwegian industry for the benefit of industry in other countries, but we want to achieve the fastest possible environmental policy conversion. It's the main thinking behind all of our actions in this area. Therefore, the Government, as it is known, has worked for the EU ETS to be based on the fact that no free allowances were to be allocated after 2012. We have also said that the allocation rules in Norway should be assessed in the light of EU policies in this area. The government has closely followed the process of revising the ETS Directive. In general, the Government is committed to maintaining the environment and energy efficient industry in Europe in parallel with the development of the quota system, but this means finding solutions to prevent any carbon leakage while not weakening the efficiency of the quota system. However, maintaining the eco-energy-efficient industry in Europe does not necessarily require allocation of allowances free of charge. The quota system is one of Norway’s main climate policy instruments. The revised ETS Directive extends the scope of the allowances system from 2013 and around 60 pst. in that case, greenhouse gas emissions from Norwegian territory will be subject to allowances. The government is open to allocate free allowances for the 2008-2012 period. This has been done to facilitate the conversion costs of eligible activities. Free allowances are a pure subsidy to the emission intensive industry in Norway. Free allowances increase the profitability of emission intensive activities and make it more lucrative for owners to invest in and operate such activities. This is at the expense of the profitability of non-emission businesses, and there is a bill paid by society else. It is, of course, appropriate to wonder that the Progress Party seems so desperately concerned that the costs of the necessary environmental policy change in Norway will be passed on to most people — from those who pollute and to the general man and woman — for the cost of doing so will not be any less, it is only a question of where to place the costs. The point of view of the Progress Party is that most people have to pay for these costs. We now see that the EU provides for a longer transition period than the government has considered necessary. We do not share the EU's view on the need for free allowances in the period after 2012. However, it is premature to conclude that Norwegian ETS would have to purchase all allowances in the market, as the Government has so far worked for. It's once again based on the natural assumption that yes, we want a conversion, but no, we don't want a conversion that leads to the closure of the Norwegian industry. The EU has decided to harmonise the allocation rules. The EU Member States will thus lose the right to determine the number of allowances to be sold. In return, enterprises in different EU countries will face the same conditions of competition. Competitive enterprises will be allocated equal numbers of allowances free of charge irrespective of the country in which they operate. It is premature to say whether the harmonised legislation will also apply to Norway. During the current period, Norway is free to determine the proportion of the allowances to be sold. This freedom has also been exercised by Norway. About half of the Norwegian quotas are sold. No other country sells an equal share of quotas to Norway. In assessing its adaptation to EU legislation in the future towards 2012, the basic principle – to repeat it – will be that we want the Norwegian industry to be more environmentally friendly as soon as possible. It will also make it more competitive in the longer term, but we do not want this to happen in such a way that important parts of Norwegian industry are destroyed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e796	Governments sometimes have some glittering formulations and some long, fine reasoning. The problem is that they are completely irrelevant to the issue I am going to raise. I think that's very sad, because I actually think the Council of State is doing it deliberately. He won't discuss the realities, but he'll come up with fine headlines without seeing that the tool use, for which he actually argues, is not related to the headlines. The problem is: if, in the short term, the environment is subject to strict environmental requirements in relation to CO2 by forcing Norwegian industry to take all CO2 costs while all competitors are free to do so, a non-industrial company is strengthening its ability to compete on the world market, for a bottleneck for capital, a destroyer of profitability. If one at best had developed technology that allowed one to sell it on the world market, a result would have been positive. The problem is that the government's policy will drain the capital industry and make it impossible for them to finance technology development. This will mean that the company does not exist in the long run – when the Council of State believes that we should be the most competitive. I hear a Council of State saying in its speech: Yes, we are going to take account of the EU, but we are not going to be so strict that there is a threat to Norwegian industry. Then I have actually received the answer I want to have to my question. Because that's exactly the confirmation we need, that a principle set should say, yes, we're going to work for the strictest possible regulatory framework around this, because we're going to cut the CO2 emissions. We're going to increase energy efficiency. That's not what I challenge the Council of States. What I want a confirmation of is that he actually understands that it has to be implemented in reality. Too much of what else was in the Council of State's articles was that if we don't require 100 pst. payment for the allowances means less money in the treasury. That means that most people have less money to distribute. If the Council of State is then to be right in its case with the Progress Party, it means that he has to implement a policy of 100 pst. the auctioning of all allowances. However, it is contrary to the argument that one should take into account competitiveness. This is where the Council of State has to decide. Is it most important to chat with the Progress Party and pretend that the Progress Party is not the most involved with people, or is it really important to ensure that the industry in Norway is competitive so that the management it has in many environmental areas, the management it has in already developed technology and to operate more efficiently than its competitors, can be carried out? I did not argue in any place in my post that we should have 100 pst. allocation of climate allowances free of charge. I argued for non-discrimination. Then I think that the Council of State, when he obviously thinks that this is something he can hazel with, should still come down to the ground and not just think of moon landing, but look at: will he guarantee non-discrimination with his competitors, or is it 100 pst. auctioning that is important? If I get a good answer to that, we don't need to continue this debate. Then the Council of State has cancelled the fear I have when I quote what Inga Marte Thorkildsen, Tore Nordtun and others have said earlier in the Great Britain period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e816	Of course, it is important to create an environmentally friendly system, then to ensure a good, viable and predictable future for Norwegian industry. But I do not hide that I also have a significant personal joy of what is called ‘harselas with the Advance Party’. It is for the simple reason that it creates problems for a credible Norwegian environmental policy over time that we have a large and serious party that uses every opportunity in Stortinget to find ways to weaken Norwegian environmental policy, rather than what I see as a common project for all other parties, to look at how to build a stronger and tougher Norwegian environmental policy in line with international climate requirements. At this stage, it is uncertain how the EU system will work, whether there will be a minimum system that will provide room for action for countries within the EU – and thus Norway – to take tougher action in some areas, or whether there is a fully harmonised system. It is of the things that will be clarified in the future and that will answer many of the questions in this debate. But when you want to clear it up right now, of course, it's primarily to put chains in the wheels for a more offensive climate policy. Solvik-Olsen speaks several times about 100 pst. auctioning. It's pretty clear through this that it's not going to be 100 pst. auctioning from 2013. But the question is the degree of auctioning. And that's what I think we should maintain the freedom of action to assess in the future. Let me just take an example. The CO2 tax, introduced into the oil business early in the 1990s, is a very parallel to this. I am absolutely sure that the party of progress yelled and yelled in exactly the same way then, without me going into the minutes to make sure that that was the case. But let me say it this way: I won't be surprised if that was the case. There were considerable reactions at the time, and it was claimed that this was a major competitive disadvantage for the Norwegian oil and gas industry. Now there is a broad consensus that there is a major competitive advantage for the Norwegian oil industry, because it was driven by the necessary technological changes at an early stage. It has been read and decided in Norway that Gro Harlem Brundtland has the credit for this. I happened to happen a little bit here in the day Arne Skage from the Right. He said, "No, no, it's not Gro who had the credit for this, it's me who had the credit for this!" Nothing is better than the fact that there is a discussion between the Right and the Workers' Party about who had the credit for this correct decision, which was then perceived as significantly problematic, but which everyone now seems to be doing was a quite right thing, because it was both environmentally correct and gave Norway a faster transition, and thus a competitive advantage. The possibilities for this will be different, but that is what we need to look forward to in the development of our relationship with EU decisions in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e830	As far as I have heard questions and answers in this inter-pelling debate, I find it necessary to stress that the climate quota system for Norway as well as for other countries is regulated by concrete legislation and not by visualisation and estimation, as one can understand Ketil Solvik-Olsen's repeated questions. Before a person can produce a precise legal text that goes far into the future, the main premises must be clear. The main premise, as also emerged from Solheim's response, is what the EU had to decide on when that time would come. When I choose to emphasise this so heavily, it is because it is not clear how fundamental parts of the EU’s post-2012 approach will have to work for example. Norway. For example, we have to. be clear on how the EU decision on the harmonisation of the allocation rules is to be implemented, as was also the case with the Council of State. We cannot put our finger in the air and think of a number, a solution, as the basis for legislation in an area that is one of the most important climate policy instruments in our country. Essentially, the main framework for international climate cooperation is the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change of 1992 and the subsequent Kyoto Protocol of 1997. Norway is required here to ensure that the average annual greenhouse gas emissions during the 2008-2012 commitment period are no more than 1 pst. on 1990 emissions. This is equal to 50.3 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent. The climate agreement between all parties except the Progress Party last year strengthened our commitment and placed long-term leadership on our climate quota legislation in both this climate quota period and the coming one. I believe, as the Council of State said, that we can neither reach nor should we consider a quota system after 2012. It becomes unexplained, and it becomes valueless. The government will necessarily present a bill to the Storting in the next period when appropriate. However, it is clear that equal and fair competition between regulated establishments in Norway and the rest of the EEA territory means that our allowances system must be close to the EU’s starting point, including with regard to the possible allocation of free allowances. It is important that conditions of competition are as level as possible in order to avoid the environmentally pointless transfer of ETS activities within the EEA territory.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e846	Let me just start by saying that also from the Right side it is a wish that after 2012 the period of allocation of free allowances is phased out. There can be no doubt about that. It's a goal. If it's feasible, there's something completely different. I think a debate like this will stand on having a significant degree of realism inherent in it, and that one approaches this in a way that enables Norwegian industry to cope with the fluctuations, at least that they have the necessary long-termity with them when they are going to make future plans. I believe that the debate also requires a little humility, at least when I have in mind the close history of dealing with climate laws that we have had in Norway. In fact, Norway was at the forefront of developing emissions trading in Europe. There is little doubt that that position has been lost along the way, so that while the EU is now fully looking firmly at the post-2012 period, our proceedings focus on not even 2009, but on cleaning up after 2008. Thus, there have been lost years, also because Norwegian industry, which was initially not to be allocated a new level of free allowances, may have put in place alternative plans that have led us to miss out on industrial development in Norway. There is no doubt that in these issues of climate policy, the EU has been in the global driving position. I think we should be very, very happy about that. I share in many ways the Council of State's approach to these issues — that we should be ambitious. I also believe that in the long term it will be profitable for Norwegian industry to be the best in these areas, because in any case, sooner or later, the period of free allowances will be over. But in this context, we have what is reality, and that's the situation we're in in the middle of. It is the fact that, in the current situation, all EU countries have the possibility of being allocated other allowances. With the Government’s proposals, we have not made this up so far in Norway. I think that's all the reason for the government parties to take the most seriously, especially after the reports presented at yesterday's hearing, on which the interpellant is involved. I think we can statistically get out of it on climate emissions in Norway if we do one alone, but it does not give an environmental benefit globally if we navigate in the direction that industry in Norway has to be shut down because it has to be moved out, to the other side of the border, because the framework conditions there have improved. That's actually the crucial question for some companies today. That is why I hope that the Council of State, in its approach to the matter we are going through in the committee, can give a clear signal that the reserve is 8 million. tonnes to be sold by the Norwegian State may be able to set off a very small part of a quota reserve allowing both Celsa and NorFra Kalk, etc. can also see the light of the day in the future. I think we simplify the debate if we ignore the fact that these are simple questions to deal with nationally. Norway has to keep pace with the rest of the world. It is not easy for EU countries to take simple action either, and I also believe that we will stand by the concept of carbon leakage in this debate. There is no benefit to the world's environmental situation if we have national legislation, the EU has its legislation, and then there is other legislation in other countries that can produce without strict regulations. In fact, we haven't come very far. But finally, I hope that the Council of State will be able to give a clear signal so that the internationally owned Celsa, which is used as the Government's exhibition window, as the company that has invested most recently in environmental recovery, can still proudly sell its goods and services from Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e866	I was going to say very much of what Erik Solheim said, and I think I'm going to repeat some of that anyway, because I think it's very important points, too, every time the Progress Party in this room brings up debates that deal with climate and the environment, it's with a negative sign. It is to try to prevent Norway from becoming a leading country, and it is to prevent us from having an independent and offensive climate policy. I believe that it is real enough, given that the Progress Party has as its starting point that climate change is not a man-made belief – at least all the time is spent on questioning the credibility of climate scientists. In any case, the problem is that in Norway we have to deal with climate policy internationally, and some people have to pay if they want to add up to a system with the most free allowances possible. Then it is what Erik Solheim also pointed out, in which case consumers, or most people, have to pay, and the Progress Party must actually answer that. The rug is serious anyway, and it's about the research that we have, which says that a heating of over 2 degrees in relation to pre-industrial levels could cause us to get a heating coming out of control, and we get what's called feedback. This could be done, for example, by: means that instead of absorbing CO2, the sea begins to emit CO2 and the sea is acidified. It can have dramatic consequences. Methane gas may also be emitted when the permafrost melts, which in turn may cause the whole situation to come out of control. Then we're going to have some huge costs, all of which are going to have to pay, and the earlier we have an offensive climate policy, and the earlier we get these instruments to work, the cheaper this will be – we all know that. Then there are questions about the distribution of costs. The SV's starting point is that Norway should have a maritime policy, that we want Norway to go ahead. We do not want the European Union to dictate Norwegian policy. But when that is said, we have to look at what the EU is doing in Norway too, and everyone understands that we have to deal with decisions taken by the European Union. The market in which we operate is international, partly global, and we are aware of that. So another remark in the direction of what Erik Solheim had to say, that very often when we talk about national environmental and climate requirements, but also when it comes to, for example, environmental and climate requirements. workers' rights, it is a horror of pain that we hear and that the Advance Party likes to stand in front and howl out. And what you are sure of, and as Ketil Solvik-Olsen categorically stated here today, is that a stricter policy by the Norwegian team will weaken the Norwegian industry. Then the question is, is it now that safe? With a combination of a strict environmental and climate policy on the one hand and an active state that enters and facilitates, providing direct and targeted support on the other, we can actually see that Norwegian industry becomes more robust. We have more examples of that. Erik Solheim mentioned offshore and the history of the CO2 tax. It is quite right, as the Council of State said, that we were strongly opposed by oil companies and others to introduce what is called strange demands, strange rules. But what we are seeing today is an oil industry, an advance party – and others too – that is flying around and saying that we have the world's most environmentally friendly oil industry in Norway. But this is due to government demands – in the form of CO2 tax, in the form of HMS requirements, close cooperation with employee organisations to ensure that there is competence, proper state supervision, etc. – that we have such a relatively environmentally friendly oil industry. I have received concrete examples of this, for example: Resistance to a sulphur tax in the past has led you to start using waste to become a resource on which you earn money, rather than to landfill it, for example. Yara has wanted to be integrated into the quota system – that's another example – because they see that it's a good idea for them. However, a certain predictability is important, and SV and the Government are committed to maintaining the environmental and energy efficient industry in Norway as well. But we want to make demands. We think it makes sense, but we have to get back to what extent we're going to allocate free allowances after 2012. It is now, as others have said, among other things: Asmund Kristoffersen and others, too early to determine what will be the government's line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e889	Norwegian industry is, as the interpellant Ketil Solvik-Olsen refers to, among the world's most environmentally friendly industries. This is due to a good interaction over a long time between government and business in this country. The authorities have required emission limitations and sustainability and industry has followed up with adaptations and technological innovations that have made major environmental improvements possible. The Christian People's Party, unlike the Advancement Party, wants this development to continue. The climate crisis makes the requirements of a sustainable industry even more important than before. The fact that the EU gave in to the short-term desire of the heavy industry in terms of free allowances and less emissions cuts should not be an argument for Norway to do the same. The polluter-pays principle must also apply to the heavy industry. The Christian People's Party has faith in Norwegian industry and its ability to convert in an environmentally friendly way. We believe that quotas and strong environmental requirements will strengthen industry and in the long term give it an environmental advantage also internationally. The representative Ivar Kristiansen was concerned with the difficulties of this. Yes, this is not a single area, but in response to the climate challenges we face, it is required that we take decisions that are difficult and that will be demanding for all of us. In this interpellation, and also in the previous one, we have talked about the most important thing for industry is that it gets predictable framework conditions. The Christian People’s Party therefore hopes that a majority of the parties to the Stortinget today, based on a principle approach, can send a clear signal to the industry that climate allowances should not be allocated free of charge after 2012, so that industry is given good time to prepare for the situation to come. It's also important to learn from the process we're in now, given today's quota regime. Yesterday, at the hearing of the Energy and Environment Committee, we were given clear signals that we should now clarify which quota regime will come after 2012, so that we can avoid the challenges facing the industry today, when the quota system has not yet been prepared.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e904	It is important that Norwegian industry has good framework conditions, and it is important that Norwegian industry is the leader in the environment and in addressing our climate challenges. For the Left, it is also important that the tax system is used in the service of the environment to achieve the objectives we have described. A principle that has to be founded is that contamination should not be paid. On the contrary, it must cost. It shall be profitable to act in an environmentally friendly manner. It is also an important principle that the polluter pays, because the option is that the bill is taken by others. We believe that these principles must underpin future allowances systems. The objective must be to eliminate free quotas after 2012 in as many countries as possible, and Norway should be clear in this respect and that Norway should be a leading country. That is what should be the starting point when industry plans for the future. It will provide more climate-friendly enterprises, which will thus also gain a competitive advantage by early adaptation to which other enterprises will have to follow. I hope that the Copenhagen meeting will give guidance signals that will help to tighten up the setting in this area. I am also of those who believe that the Norwegian oil industry has not become less competitive by meeting tougher environmental requirements than it has in many other countries. Rather, on the contrary, I believe that these requirements have contributed both to increased resource use and to making industry competitive by looking for markets in other countries, precisely because one has environmental standards that are now being called for more and more places. This is what I hope and think it will be also in the area we are discussing today, that companies that do not pollute will be in demand, not only in Norway, but also in other countries. The abolition of free allowances is a natural part of a tax shift, in which environmental costs are increased that are seen in the context of tax relief and tax incentives for business in other areas. Finally, I want to say a little bit about two things. One is an example of how unhappy I think the free quota system can be: our gas power plant at Kårstø has free allowances, and today the sale of them is actually the only business they run. It helps them make money on allowances they have received at the expense of others, and they sell allowances that contribute to emissions in other countries that would not have been there if that quantity of allowances had not been available. We can't have it that way. It is clear that Norwegian policies in this area need to be developed taking into account and understanding what is happening in the world. But I want Norway to be a driver. I know from my past that a hare can do great good by pulling up the speed in the field. But then the hare must not be in the middle of the field. The hare must lie before the field and pull up the speed. But then there is one important reservation: it is important that the hare has contact with the field, and is not so far ahead that he does not play a role in the speed that the field has. It's exactly in that sense that we have to design our role here: as a driver in an important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e920	With a labor party government, I had actually expected a little more constructive feedback on such an important issue that occupies so many workers and industry leaders around the country. Then it is a paradox that it is the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim who appears to have understood a little of what this is all about – plus the representative Ivar Kristiansen – while the government parties only take this as a fool and as a harelation. So this isn't an attempt to undermine the climate work. Either the Council of States has not understood the qualities we are discussing, or it turns out once again why he failed as a peacemaker – because the desire to misunderstand is stronger than the desire for dialogue. The tightness does not change from the solution taken by the Progress Party here, namely that the allocation of quotas to industry should be the same in Norway as in the competing countries. It has nothing to do with the tightness of the quota allocation. The government itself has shown that they don't take it very seriously, when they sell all the surplus allowances today instead of making them. The government’s policy is to maintain emission potential in Europe, not to reduce them. On the other hand, the Progress Party would now call for the clarification that we want, and ensure that Norway, in fact, more than the Government proposes, can maintain competitive industry as a driver for cutting CO2 emissions. A clarification will increase investment in industry faster than the Government proposes. A faster cut can then be achieved and an increased investment in low-carbon production, compared to competitors. It is the government’s policy now — by not providing the clarifications you want — that stop these investments. There are four concrete examples that show that this is not just theory: NorFra Kalk says they have built to have three ovens. They're not going to build more than one if it's not going to be a different policy than the government has. Celsa steelworks, Finnfjord Smelteverk and Elkem Thamshavn – all have projects and everyone is waiting for clarification, but everyone says that if they do not know that they have the same conditions as in the competitor countries, they do not make the investments. Ergo: In fact, the burden of proof lies here on the Government. It is the government that, through its ideological policy, is unable to ensure that the industry does the necessary cut. It is not, in fact, the Progress Party that is the problem here. A fundamental clarification that would have provided a reduction in the risk to business would have ensured that the investments were put in place. This isn't about seeing, as the representative Kristoffersen claimed, it's about getting a fundamental clarification. It's not about today saying what the details are, but it's about saying that we're going to cooperate with the EU – closely – so it's going to be similar. It is important to cooperate in order to get it as strict as possible, but we need to know that Norwegian industry and foreign industry have a level playing field. Some of Solheim's contributions ignore the statements made by Inga Marte Thorkildsen, which scares the lives of Norwegian industry, namely that no free allowances should be available after 2012 anyway. Other parts of Solheim's post don't ignore it. I hope that Solheim can be tidy in his last post and tell what the Government wants, and not start with some sort of climate harpsichord again.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e937	I have a considerable sense of the post for Ivar Kristiansen from the Right, who stressed that this is a difficult area. It requires a certain humility. We know very little at the moment about what will be the international rules in this area, because the Copenhagen Summit is ahead of us. We should get started with it for the first time, rather than a sloping safety about how this on the dot will look like in a while. I perceive that all the speakers – except from the Advancement Party – have had the same message at bottom and ground, with slightly different emphasis. Asmund Kristoffersen from the Workers' Party, Inga Marte Thorkildsen, Ivar Kristiansen from the Right, Line Henriette Holten Hämdal and Gunnar Kvassheim – everyone has said in some way that free allowances are basically stupid and wrong and should be avoided. It has also been said that we want a strong and rapid conversion of Norwegian industry in a more environmentally friendly direction. But everyone has also stressed that there are limits to what we can do strangely in Norway, and that in the future the main instrument will be the EU quota system, of which Norway will be part. I see this as a broad consensus. What is the greatest weakness in the position of the Progress Party is to explain how it can contribute to the development of both environmental policy and also drive forward the Norwegian competitive advantage it is not to be so far ahead that you lose contact with the main field – it was a good metaphor from the Left – but so that you always draw it a little in the right direction. All the experience suggests that the person who goes ahead has a competitive advantage, but if you go so far ahead that you are not in contact with anyone else, it is almost always a disadvantage. That's what we should look for. So it's true that either an enterprise or industry gets free allowances or has to buy the allowances, it's basically, based on socio-economic theory, the same incentive for conversion. The most important element over time is the allowance price. The quota price today is too low. The most important thing that can happen is that carbon gets more expensive. It was Al Gore's main message when he was here about the Nobel Prize. You have to have a price of carbon, and it has to be higher, it will drive the investments in the right direction. Let me end by saying that there are in principle three instruments that the authorities have in this area. It's the quota system, it's the regulation of the industry, and it's subsidies. All environmental markets worldwide are developed by countries — public authorities. It is quite different from the consumer market in e-industry or information technology – it develops through contacts between businesses and consumers alone. Environmental markets are developed by political authorities. And we need a combination of quotas, subsidies and regulations to get this done. But it's clear that the quotas are a very, very important part of this system. We will look for areas where Norway can develop better by being faster than others, but the main instrument will be the EU’s overall system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e948	Case No. So 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e964	The background to this interpellation, which was presented a while before Christmas, is a serious and sincere concern that the provision of initial training to students is becoming so impaired that the students do not receive the training they are entitled to. This is particularly challenging in relation to the right of students to adapted training. That right applies to students with learning challenges, but also to students who need higher than average training. The parental committee for primary school, the Student Organisation and the Education Association reacted so strongly to the autumn budget cuts in the school sector that they claimed that quality in training does not mean so much when budgets are settled, despite fine quality reporting. The figures from the primary education information system show that the teacher's density in the first year has declined most. This happens despite the fact that an aggregate increase has clarified the importance of increasing efforts at the first school stages. Early intervention is a motto used by most people in this room, but in practice few improvements are made. At the same time, the proportion of children given special education decisions has increased markedly. Over 7 pst. special education decisions are taken by primary school students. There may also be evidence that resources in ordinary school and training are not good enough, and that more and more students are falling out of school because they are not adequately trained. Head of the Education Association, Haldis Holst, says on the Education Association's website the following: «Once again, we see national ambitions losing in the fight with the municipal savings knife.» There will be more students per year. teacher, less money for equipment and materials, less maintenance of buildings and poorer quality of training provision, says the head of the Education Association, Helga Hjetland, who otherwise added that it is the very opposite of what the Government said when it joined three years ago. The figures with which the Student Organisation operates show that the teacher density has ranged from 7.9 to 8.7 in the period 2003–2004 to 2007–08. This indicates a marked deterioration in the offer for the students. When it's cut in school, it's natural for the cuts to go first and foremost across the areas where it's easiest to save. Adapted training is a non-explained right, and the right is limited to the existing resource situation in the municipalities at all times. As it appears in today's picture, the Stortinget has one level of ambition for the school, while those who run the practical school policy in the municipalities have a different level of ambition, not because they do not want to invest more in the school, but simply because there is no room for the effort expected by national authorities. So it is the government's responsibility to bring the Big One's policy and will into life, as the executive. And it is the responsibility of the Government to present budget proposals where there is consistency between the level of political ambition and the level of appropriations. This correspondence is obviously not there today. Regardless of the political parties that govern the different municipalities, the common feature is savings, savings and savings. It is no longer useful to sit calm, neither on the Stortinget nor in the government quarter for that matter, and close your eyes and hope that this goes over. For every day the central political leadership daydreams, we fail our main future resource. The damage suffered by the students today cannot be removed or withdrawn tomorrow. The students who experience today's school will depend for the rest of their lives on the basis that this school is supposed to give them. We are far from matching the level of ambition with the level of practical policy. Some examples are that in the municipality of Nordland, it was assessed to cut down 100 teaching positions. In Seljord municipality, it was cut for hours and teaching positions. Lillehammer municipality cut 66 years' work, mainly in school and in the care and care sector. The municipality of Skien had to cut 35.8 million. kr in the school and kindergarten sectors. Molde had to cut 492 teaching hours at each school, according to the Norwegian School Leaders Association. The ability to follow up on those students who need the most help will be reduced. The councillor in the municipality of Nord-Odal says about his own budget proposal that all the students can be affected by these cuts. A reduction in the number of apprenticeships will lead to less adapted training. In addition, pupils with special needs will be hit. In many municipalities, torch trains have been arranged in protest against the cuts in the school sector. Many municipalities also warn that there will be less opportunity to participate in continuing education because the framework is too small. As a means of saving money, we also see that many municipalities now choose to drop out of schools. Some municipalities talk about serious school renovations in the years that come, if necessary followed, if there is no radical intervention in the school sector. The party of progress is for a diversity of schools, large and small, where it is a student base. In some cases, there may be good educational grounds for school leaving. But when the municipalities are forced to set up good secondary schools because there is no economy to maintain the secondary school offer, I am still wondering that the Senterpartiet is holding out in this government. One of the most important institutions in the community is the school. Unfortunately, it turns out that in many places the post office is shut down. Then the bank branch is laid down. Then the bus only comes twice through, and then the school goes down, because the municipality thinks they're saving money on it. Then more people move from the area because the welfare offer is too bad, and because you want to be closer to school to your children. The potential migration stops. Then there are too few customers to maintain the local store, which is shut down. Finally, people sit at home before and after work and may hope to get a glimpse of the neighbor during the day. This is totally destructive to many small communities, and the small communities don't have to be in District Norway. We'll find such examples all over the country. I know that the Council of State is concerned that you should not paint black, nor that it is very good in the Norwegian school. The progress party agrees that there is still a lot of good in the Norwegian school. However, it is crucial for the future of the Norwegian school that it is not later considered that the situation is better than it actually is. I mean, it's worse than black paint. Because when the Government provides quality messages in the training and messages that say that ‘there was nothing left’, everyone here agrees on the importance of early work, teacher competence, school hours, basic education and sufficient resources to do the job properly. But then it fails – on the way from the good words in messages, settings and big debates to practical action. So I also know that some in the government parties are concerned about saying as often as they can, that it is really the municipalities' own fault when they have to cut school if they have not introduced property taxes. It's a very unfortunate mix. As the responsible State Council, it cannot be assumed that the quality of welfare provision should depend on a voluntary municipal tax that no one in Norway really wants. We must be able to assume that school is a well-being that is intended to be funded within the framework of state transfers to the municipalities. In order to be a little creative, the Education Association, the Student Organisation and the Parental Committee for Primary School have joined forces to demand that basic education funds be earmarked. This is in agreement with the Progress Party. First of all, the Advance Party wants money to be given to the individual school as a differentiated price. But within today's funding system, earmarking is an acceptable way to go. It ends with a challenge to the State Council in line with the interpellation: What action will the Council of State take to prevent further deterioration in the quality of training and the ability to provide adapted training as a result of the lack of adequate funding by government parties for schools in the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e1007	The total revenue for the local government sector will exceed NOK 300 billion in 2009. The total real income growth for the local government sector from 2006 to 2009 is estimated at DKK 28.6 billion. In comparison, the growth in the free income of the previous government period, where the Progress Party voted for three out of four government budgets, was approximately DKK 19 billion. I understand that many people are concerned about the consequences the financial crisis can have for the school, and of course for the situation you experience in your own community, because we know that there are many places where there are tight budgets and a fight for money for the school as well. Before I go into the issue, I would like to mention that we are working on new fiscal policies that are being presented to the Stortinget in the month-end of January/February, and, of course, different measures for the local government sector are part of the assessments there. Responsibility for the key welfare services such as school and kindergarten has been added to municipalities. But the municipalities are very different, and there is a need for localization. Local populace have good knowledge of and closeness to the tasks to be solved. Fortunately, there is broad agreement in the UK that the priorities of the key welfare services should be made by the voters and local politicians locally, even when it comes to schooling, and if not for long in the kindergarten area, as well as for example. health and care. Framework funding gives freedom of action and room for priority. It gives both better democracy that one can decide it locally, and it is also more cost-effective, because the municipal politicians themselves are responsible for the priorities they do, and the arrows point back, just as we are at state level responsible for the priorities we do, and the arrow points towards us. Of course, ear marking may be relevant in some cases, as the representative addressed, for example: where a large national, priority service is in a build-up phase. The rights of children's children in recent years are another example of this. Once the goal of full child care is achieved, we aim to transfer the funds to the municipality, so that they can address the local priorities of local politicians in Norway. We have great ambitions for what students will learn in the Norwegian school. Developments in adapting training in recent years and learning outcomes in schools have been very alarming, and there has been a broad consensus that we have to do something about it. We now know – and before Christmas we got for the first time results that show it – that we are on the right track, that Norwegian elephants are making progress when it comes to learning outcomes. It's positive. But for everything in the world, it doesn't have to make us sleep. That is why we are going to meet both what students are learning and the budgetary situation in the school, with deep concern. When it comes to the development of the group size and the economy in the last few years, the image is the following: Under the previous government, we had a clear decline in the learning density. The last three years have been a stable development. There is a decrease in the size of the group if one includes special education, and some rise if one looks at the size of the group without special education, but both are small. In sum, it's pretty stable. There are, however, reasons for concern, and there are two things in particular that give cause for concern. It's one of the numbers that the representative mentioned, that this year, after GSI, there's a pretty clear rise in the group size of the first step, unlike last year, where we saw a clear development the second path of the first step. It's serious, because it's the exact opposite of what we've been planning to do. But we have a big measure that I know that a host of people will be in the Storting next year, which means that it will point in the opposite direction. Within the municipality, we have seen SEK 1 billion in full-year effects from the autumn of 2009 to several teachers in Norwegian and mathematics of 1–4. year-end. We also have a bill on the obligation to improve training in municipalities. There is another development that also gives cause for concern. When we look at the distribution of the large extra transfers to the municipalities – one cannot say that the school is a loser, because it has been a positive development – there are two fields where an even clearer one can see that the increase is large. But particularly large he is in the kindergarten, which has been very positive and very necessary. The second area in which we have had a great and positive development is health and care. I don't think any party here disagrees that there is a need for a high priority of kindergarten or health care. So we hardly need a debate if we should have another priority. But what I've said before, and I'd like to do again, is that in the years to come, we have to add a similar increase in that part of the municipal budget that goes to school, as well as the necessary priorities for kindergarten and health care, to name some fields. So it has to be said that in the average image that shows a stable development before school, there are big differences. In many municipalities, there has been a major investment in schools – major improvements, investment in construction and materials, several teachers, several hours and further training of teachers. Of course, this is also an example of municipalities that are below the average – where it has our cuts, and where the school has come out completely foolishly. But that's in the choice we've made, because it's going to be local priorities. Whatever the sector, whatever the field you're looking at, you'll find municipalities in Norway where there's been a very strong priority for a field, and fields where there's been a very weak priority. It may have different reasons, be political priorities, but of course it is the starting point for the different municipalities. The representative, Anundsen, asks in the interview about what action we want to take to prevent students’ right to appropriate training from becoming overweight. I have several measures. I've already said that the earmark, i.e. to earmark the entire frame to, for example. school, not current. To go a little bit further, early effort is, as I said, not just a slogan, it's a reality that we're now implementing. We're doing this at the huge nursery school effort, but also at several hours in the nursery, through enhanced training, through money for several teachers in the municipality, through stronger supervision in the school policy, and by increasing spending on it in the budget for this year, by paying more attention to monitoring and following up students' results during the first school years, to learn something. Then we know that what matters most to what students learn, and how they feel at school, is the teacher. I think most of us can recognize us from our own growth – nothing we think as well from the time of school as a really good teacher. We know that the skills of teachers play a very important role. Finally, I would like to say that we are working on a new teacher education that will allow teachers to deepen their skills and be more effective at disseminating their professional knowledge. This year, for the first time, we have introduced a new and permanent system of continuing education for teachers, which will be the start of an extremely important step to give it the follow-up as a necessity. We use it in a variety of ways, from continuing training in Norwegian and mathematics through continuing and professional training to starting on the permanent continuing training of competences. For the first time, it also comes from the fall of an offer of a schoolteacher education to all new schoolteachers and to a part of those who don't already have that competence. So we're starting a series of actions from national authorities. We'll discuss it in the quality message, which came out this summer, to make sure that custom training becomes a reality. In addition, there is also a need to go further — continue with the extension of the school day, continue the fight to work to ensure that more resources are deployed with regard to early work, special education and adapted training. In this way, the space lying there is important. And the Midlyng selection, which is going to deliver the setting in a few months' time, is just looking at how we can improve special education and do the wholeness of school so that fewer people need special education, and that several of them can be captured in general school life. We are on the right track, as the latest international investigation also shows, but we must not fall asleep; we must, on the contrary, step up efforts for years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e1049	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. Parts of the answer I'm quite satisfied with, but I'm starting with what I'm not so happy with. That's the record that we always hear when the Council of State is on the pulpit, where he says it was so much worse before – just think about when the previous government sat, then everything was so much, much worse, and now everything is going to be so much better inside. I believe that a government council that has been sitting for three years will soon have to take responsibility for the situation we see in School-Norway, and do not push that responsibility back or down in the row. Then everyone agrees that it is the responsibility of municipalities today to finance and prioritise in the school sector. But I didn't realize that the Council of State disagreed with the picture I drew in my first post, where I was said to be in the municipal sector kissing in school. There is little point in the Council of State distinguishing the fact that there has been a growth in income for municipalities, when the reality for schools is that they have a poorer framework to deal with. It also helps a lot of visions from this pulpit that we've heard in many other contexts, too, if you don't know at the same time how to actually do this locally. This does not help, for example: a unanimous decision on the importance of clay school provision. We have written that in several settings – the camp school offer is important. Then it's included in the framework grant, and the result is that the camp school offer around now disappears, because it's not important enough. And when you cut, you cut where you think you can cut. So I'm a little sorry that the Council of State isn't willing to consider labeling within school. So it's an initiative taken by the Student Organization, the Parent Committee of Primary School and the Educational Association, to ensure the resources of the school better. The reality of the municipalities now is that they are financially pressured, and that they are unable to deliver the offer that we at Stortinget – all of them – expect us to deliver to the students. I hope that in his next post, the Council of State can confirm that he will ensure that initial training is highly prioritised in the economic crisis package presented by the Government a little later this month, that the crisis package ensures a better upgrading of school buildings, that a certain proportion of the transfers to the municipalities are earmarked for the school, that future increased transfers to the municipalities take the form of earmarking – now we have heard that the Council of State will not contribute to it, but I still hope that he will reconsider this – and that the follow-up and further training arrangements for the teachers will be real, and that it will not be broken because there is no financial room for action for the funding of what is to be spent on the municipalities. Then we need concrete measures on how to implement key school objectives locally, and in general, we need to contribute to a system that prevents school closures that are purely financially justified by increasing the financial capacity of municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e1058	Let me first take the disc that the representative always plays, that I always compare the current period with the previous period. I'll take 100 pst. responsibility for this period – the more than three years we have. There's still reason to compare when the others were driving. And the Progress Party was in and out, for they decided three out of four budgets. The reality is that they were in the two budgets with the worst municipal economy in the first two years, and in sum for the three and four years, there is much worse development when it comes to the free income of the municipalities. When it applies to the fact picture for this period, it is that if we look at clear speech, it is growing to say that all areas in the municipal sector, because the free income has increased significantly, and because the different bottom incomes have increased significantly. And for the school, that's the development. But my ambition for the future is that it should look even better. There is no doubt that for kindergartens it has been an extremely strong growth during this period. Health and care have also grown well. So the image is that it's a stability when it comes to group size and development of learning density, and that it's a good growth for the school, but of course we have challenges with regard to the device, for example. to the first step – which I am completely in agreement with – is worrying about what we have seen from last year's GSI figure – in order to give an even stronger priority to school locally in the years to come. Many of the major, important measures we are implementing, which are either financed directly or locally, are actually being implemented around Norway now. Continuing education is completed, and we spend a lot of money on it. There'll be a new schoolteacher next year. We see that previous efforts are being put in place around the Norwegian classroom, and we see that the nursery is a place to prep it for a meeting in the school hall. The part of the policy that will lead to more early efforts by teachers who are better equipped to follow-up students is beginning to produce results as little as possible. But, as I've repeated many times, we have a long way to go. What I think is positive with the interpellant's initiative is that we need discouragement and a debate on whether we prioritise knowledge and school enough here in Norway, both nationally and around the municipalities. I also fear a situation where we can't do it well enough. The priorities of knowledge and local education, with the great responsibility for what we have given to local democracy, must be at the top of the agenda if we are to have a good enough development. Doing many of the quality improvements that we have to do will cost money.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e1071	I imagine that this interpellation can be resumed at regular intervals, if one is to base the budget debates that are in the municipalities each year. I don't think we'll get into a situation where the municipalities don't discuss school structure in budgetary management. Of course, we can discuss whether it is right or wrong to mix school structure and economics, whether the school arguments will lose out on the economics, etc. But here I trust that local politicians will make the best judgements. Let me briefly repeat what a rapporteur in Rogaland said about just this: When I then go for a change in school structure, it obviously counts that I think these are changes that will come in any short time, and that will even be for the benefit of the school and the students in the longer term. I'm rude enough to believe that we've made a forward-looking decision. When I start this way, it's not meant to be a justification for all the school leavings. To that I have too little local knowledge in the individual cases. Let's say that cuts in the school sector are not desirable in isolation. I have a past as rapporteur from 1999 to 2005. Every year, we discussed whether it was efficiency gains to raise in order to provide more well-being to the population. We tended to cut the boundaries of the statutory services to make the ends meet. But then what has ridden me like a bore many times, namely that once I ended up as rapporteur, the economy got better. Now, of course, this wasn't so much about the person, it was more about the politics. The municipalities immediately received more money from the red-green government when the political landscape was changed on Stortinget and the course was changed. It's a fact that there have never been so few municipalities on the ROBEK list. While it was well over a hundred in 2004, today it is well below 50. However, there are still unresolved tasks, and municipalities will also need a significant increase in income in the future in order to manage important joint tasks. That's where the nucleus lies. The government has committed to a total real growth in the revenue that is significant, as the Council of State was in it. In fact, more money was given to the municipalities in the budget for the current year than what was announced in the municipal bill. Of course, I could have continued to mention measures we have taken to increase the supply of well-being, including: in school, but most of it has been said before. In addition, there is now a financial turmoil that obviously has consequences for municipalities. The very first sign of this was through the so-called Terra municipalities. We also see that changes in the value of fund reserves in the municipalities fluctuate brutally too many. But we also see that interest rates change and that this can have a positive effect on many municipalities. I would also like to remind you that we have said that tax failures in municipalities as a result of the financial turmoil will also have to be compensated for the current year. Of course, just as fully, the budget that we adopted now last December will be effective beyond the year. Here I am thinking in particular of the measures that we have discussed earlier in several major cases in our field of action. The first thing that happens is that there will be a package of measures later this month, which is also expected to have an impact on municipalities. Secondly, some measures that we have adopted will only take effect from the harvest. This has been the subject of the Council of State, especially in terms of teacher density and investment in the early school years. Finally, I would like to comment that we see that many municipalities are now making their own school plans, preferably based on the plan law. This ensures broad treatment, with consultations of the various stakeholders. I've even read some such plans, and they're really good. That's why I think the outcome of the focus that school policy has had over the last few years will be resounding. Here, the political debate has been important, and also the national tests that the school owners have taken up. Such plans create commitment far beyond the structure, and that's important. However, there is no doubt that the secondary school is also of great importance as an institution in the community. It's part of the people's identity.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e1094	Since the ROBEK list was drawn out, there might be a reason to remind you that it will always be in retrospect. It is well possible that the government is now sung in numbers that were really created during the time of the previous government. It has a little bit to do with steering after the mirror. The financial crisis may be a good example of how things are going when you're heading for the mirror. There is no doubt that today's government is hit by a self-inflicted crisis of expectation. Gold and green forests were promised in the pre-election period in 2005: more to everything and everyone. The word prioritisation was not mentioned by a single politician of red or red-green colour. All problems would be solved with more money. There would be many more teachers, there would be research and higher education, the price of kindergartens would be reduced and everyone would have room, poverty would be eliminated, all the pools filled, industry would have subsidised electricity, and municipal politicians would be satisfied. After more than three years of red-green government – no matter what the Council of State is trying to say today – the teacher's density has not increased, research efforts are far below the promised level, universities and colleges have actually been cut in their budgets. It is not full child-care coverage, and the maximum price level is not met – which is really quite incredible in the light of the 2005 opinions. There is a crisis mood in the hospital sector, and treatment queues are growing dramatically — as opposed to under the previous government, where they were reduced. The economy has to work with higher taxes and taxes, which put unnecessary pressure on Norwegian jobs. I could continue with this list. These are concrete examples of the fact that the election vows were essentially unsubstantiated rhetoric. Then it is very understandable that many react. Very often, when a government council in today's government is confronted with a promise that is not fulfilled, or that a task is not solved, the answer is: however, the municipalities have received so much more money that they should be able to solve it. We got it today as well. Either today's government doesn't have a very good overview of the economic situation in the municipalities, or it's been trying to sell its own excellence so much that reality and its own figures for development don't matter. Both parts are critical. The reality is that many municipalities are struggling, and it is cut in the majority of municipalities. It should actually soon take over the government, instead of arguing in relation to the previous government all the time. The inconsistency between what today's government says and the economic reality they face the municipal politicians puts municipal politicians in disrepute. Of course, the citizens believe that the economic situation is as good in the municipalities as the Government says, while the municipal politicians have to admit that there is no money for a number of the promises made by government councils on behalf of others. This is how today's government has created much of today's expectation crisis. The figures are clear: in the last two years of the Bondevik II government, the growth in municipal income was significantly higher than it was in 2007 and 2008. If we were to use the money, in Norway we would have the world's best school and the world's best health care. Right is one of the few parties that talk about how money can be used better, and how we can create better solutions with the resources we have at any time. The right has always given priority to school, and we'll always give priority to school. However, there is a need for a realistic approach to resource use and for us to ensure that resources are used in an efficient and most appropriate way. SV talks a lot about something that everyone agrees on, and that's the teacher's role in school. But they have no idea how to consciously develop local and active ownership of the school. The Oslo School has shown that it may be where one finds the most important factor in raising learning outcomes in Norwegian school. It is commendable for the Progress Party to put the schools' budgetary situation on the agenda. The right does not think the solution is more designation and more central governance, but we believe the answer lies in an increased awareness – more debate on organisation and resource use – and not least the government must stop spreading myths about the economic situation in the municipalities. The main challenge in Norway is to create more learning and better quality within the framework of the framework. It has revealed both its red-greenness and its powerlessness.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e1113	Schools and kindergartens in the community are important for the establishment, development and establishment of industrial activities. I am concerned about the development of many of the small communities and towns, with the depopulation and depopulation of kindergartens and schools. This is not a simple matter. There will be fewer young people in many places – our country is very different, and it is the local politicians who can best give priority to what money the Stortinget grants. When considering any school leaving, it is important that the municipality takes time to open, inclusive processes, where everyone is heard and all assessments are placed on the table before decision is taken. It is also important to see the context, for example, in the event of closure. in the case of travel distances for students. School closures are a very difficult process for many, and they have a great impact on many people's lives. Ensuring the municipalities enough money to be a good provider of good school, health and care has been, and is, important for SV. When the red-green government took over in 2005, we met a municipal sector that had been deprived for a number of years by the previous government, with the support of the Progress Party. We have spent three years on a massive increase in the appropriations allocated to municipalities, but the municipal economy is not yet in a good enough balance. Among other things, we have has seen a sharp increase in wage growth and an increase in pension costs. Municipalities are the most important welfare provider. They must ensure good schools, health services and good kindergartens. SV understands that many can be concerned about the financial crisis and how it affects schools. As the Council of State Board Vegar Solhjell said, a package of measures will be presented in January in the context of the financial crisis. It is important that municipalities are not hit hard by the financial crisis. It's expensive to have good schools, but it's important. We have a long country and a scattered settlement. That is why it is so much more expensive to have school in Norway than in many other countries that we compare with. It's more expensive to run a small school than a big one. The proposals of the Progress Party on the financing of unit prices for schools would lead to mass closures of schools around the country. It would be impossible to maintain schools in many of our districts. At the same time, unit price financing will be incredibly unfair for our schools – schools face different types of challenges. The government provided a report of quality in the school that was treated in Stortinget a little while ago. It is important for us to ensure quality and adapted training for individual students. This big message takes much more national action to ensure school quality. A permanent training system for teachers has been set up, and for the first time a systematic teacher training system has been established for all the Vice-Chancellors who do not have the skills they need — all the principals who need more competence are to be given the opportunity to train their principals. We've introduced several hours at school, both in Norwegian, mathematics, language and physical activity. On the 1st to the 4th. We also introduce a statutory right to enhanced training for students. We have also established a school library development programme, which is incredibly important for strengthening the school libraries and knowledge among our teachers, but also for students to receive good training. We're on the right track. We're strengthening the quality of school. But would it have been like this if the Progress Party had run? The safest recipe for setting up schools in the districts and getting less money for the schools is to vote the Progress Party at the year's elections.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e1134	I'm not going to get into the discussion that the interpellant and the Council of State had about DJs, how to play records, and what records to play – but I want to make a heart attack: I'm very happy that the Council of State is not a history teacher in Norwegian school, because it's clear that with such a selection of stories, our students would get very bad history skills. It must also be said that when you compare apples and pears, you cannot compare them. You also have to say something about the overall economic situation of the previous government. It was a completely different economic situation. In respect for the story story, it should also be mentioned when you keep mentioning graphs. What is at the root of the interpellation is clearly the municipal economy. The government has been praised. The Christian People's Party has praised the Government for doing something quite different in the municipal sector for the first year of its rule. The local economy was increased. There was a need for that. It was important to do in the situation and with the increased funds that this government had. But the party's over. The cake's been eaten. Some people might not even be able to start eating from the cake. What you see now is a completely different situation. One sees cuts in schools, cuts in health, cuts in cultural provision in schools due to population growth, maintenance, reforms that have come, performance requirements imposed on the municipal sector. The party is over, and we're in a different economic situation than the very many local municipal politicians saw after the first year with the red-green government. But then the question is, is earmarking the answer to protect our bit of cake, namely the school and the school situation? I don't think that's the answer. I don't think it's just the responsibility of municipal politicians to prioritize between those funds, and that it's important to control this for themselves, but I think the school needs local school ownership. We need local municipal politicians who feel ownership, who get involved in school, who take responsibility, who make local adjustments, and who put the school into a local perspective. That's why an ear tag where the state is the one who rules, where we skip all the local joints and right out into school, won't give the locality that I want the Norwegian school to have. The fact that everything should be governed from the state is wrong. I think we need the local commitment and the local adaptations to get it done. But then there is the second question: what are the framework conditions for the exercise of local ownership? What framework conditions do you get from the red-green government when it comes to school? The Christian People's Party believes that the investment in school that we've seen from this government, where several hours on the way to a full-day school project has been the big, big solution to all the school's challenges, is a completely wrong priority. Such an all-day school project, where several hours are the only solution, does not solve the challenge we face, related to teaching shortages and empowerment among teachers. I want to say that it seems as if there has been a political prestige in this. You haven't thought about what the school really needs, and what's best for the student, because it's not that several hours in school automatically provide improved quality and adapted training. What we need is more teachers. With a different bet than more hours, I think we got to it. In the discussion about how it was before, and how it is now, perhaps has a main theme in the interpellation, namely adapted training, drowned a little. With several teachers, we had managed to get an opportunity, for example. greater theoretical practice correction, adapted training for students who need to be seen because they have characteristics other than theoretical strengths. The question of how to learn, rather than how much time you have to learn, could have spent more time on – creativity, different thinking about pedagogics, if you have more teachers, not just more hours. I record once again that in the discussion about adapted training, home/school, the great lack of tension in the matter, has not been mentioned by the Government as an important point.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e1151	This I think has been an interesting and partly surprising debate. I almost have to say that I think it was nice that the Central Party was asked how we cope with the district policy that this government is running. So it's saying a party like this. will cut the North Norway grant. I just have to say that I am looking forward to an inflamed commitment to rural agriculture. It'll probably come at the next crossroads, we'll get hope. This debate also describes a lot of history – it is true – at least with different political glasses. I'll try to be forward-looking. I think it's important to us that we put things behind us, no matter what political opinion we have, and that we have to think in the future. This interpellation, as I read it, has a lot of elements in it -- and I can pick them apart. I can read the financial crisis, I can talk about local economy, trade unions, earmarked funds, adapt training and school closure. It doesn't matter in a four-minute post to get into all of this. A lot has already been said. I want to tackle some of the things that the interpellant is concerned about, among other things. the wish of professional organisations to earmark funds. I think that is quite reasonable. They will screen their sector in budgetary terms. That's understandable, and that's good. The trade unions are doing their job. But politicians have to think across sectors – they have to think completely – and then, as a rule, framework grants will be more appropriate than earmarked funds. As far as I remember, the Council of State stated in its statement that earmarked funds can be a good tool in the new national priority measures. I agree. Barnyard expansion is one example. In the past, one with commonly used ear-marked funds has been put in place for care services for the elderly. In general, the Centre Party believes that this type of grant should be withheld. Nor will it be right with regard to local democracy. Municipalities are different and have different needs. The interpellant is concerned about custom training. It's a matter of agreeing, and many of us agree that it's serious. I don't think there's necessarily any connection between eartags and custom training. In two key messages this period is focused on school and everyday life. I'm thinking of St. Meld. No 16 for 2006–2007, Early effort..., and St.meld. No 31 for 2007-2008, Quality at school. I actually want to quote a little bit from the top. 6.3.4 in St.meld. No 16th@item: The chapter is called Custom Training. ‘Development and learning in school take place in the meeting between the student, the teacher and the content of the subjects. The teacher is responsible for the student’s meeting with the school becoming positive, so that it arouses professional interest, gives motivation and leads to learning.’ It's written a lot about this, which is very good. So one might say, of course, it's easy to get a big message with beautiful words, but it's school everyday that counts. I agree with that. But my point is that the teacher is absolutely central to learning custom. This is person-dependent, maybe more than that should be. School management and local policy management should be more involved. We know this works fine somewhere, but it's not implemented in all schools and in all municipalities. Things take too long, and it is therefore good that there is more supervision in the school. In addition, from the harvest, from the first to the fourth stage, there will be enhanced training in Norwegian and math. We get a system for continuing training of teachers and a school manager training for newly appointed principals and for principals who do not have management training. In addition, there is a big message about teacher training right around the corner. Finally, from my time as a local politician: in our municipality there was to be a school that had about 25 students, and it usually hurts. But there was unexpected drag help. Rector Solberg, who was at school, wanted a bigger relationship and wanted to quit, and then the parents said, if Solberg leaves, we might as well put down the whole school. Making a rule out of this story is hardly right. But it is a relevant and good example that the teacher's efforts are invaluable.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e1180	The representative Anundsen is a versatile representative, and at his post he has basically leveled out far more than a debate on school. He has launched a debate on whether we should have municipalities and how we should have municipalities. That's why I want to start by explaining the principle view of municipalities of the Left. The left is against municipalities that are purely state branches, and we are against municipalities that are in practice ribbed for so many tasks that they eventually become a kind of extended community. We're ideological for strong municipalities, and we're going to show that in different ways over the scarce year leading up to the election. But that also means that we are not followers of choosing the ear marking path. If earmarking in the current situation had been carried out in almost every area where it had been relevant, it would not have solved one of the problems that the representative Anundsen raised today. Then we are also in favour of – we who are happy in the public sector – that in the public sector it should be a form of critical challenge, so that it becomes good at organizing itself. Let me take some self-criticism. When the Left took part in raising what is now called the Knowledge Promise – which has received broad support and is implemented with great strength – we were probably not sufficiently aware of the need to raise awareness among local school owners, i.e. the municipalities, of the importance of being good school owners. I think we have to say that! It became a very concentration, rightly, about what skills students should have. We see how you've focused on defining your skills, measuring your skills. For example, in Oslo, there has been a fantastic improvement in performance over the past seven to eight years – and in a city that now has 40 pst. language minorities. But we also see in a state like Sogn and Fjordane – where you don't have 40 pst. linguistic minorities, and where there is not as much money as in Oslo – that ultra-good cooperation between the Federation of Education, the Municipal Councils and the Sogndal College creates a pressure and systematics around the schooling of principals and teachers with the means available, which in turn creates good results. Learning from what it means to become a quality proof is more important than ever. As one of three partners in the Bondevik II government, I would say – and I am sure my colleagues in other parties from that time will agree – that we were not conscious enough to see how important it was with the good local, active school owners. That is why the Left has said, throughout this entire process of enlargement, and also in the past, that we need to revisit a debate on the content of the school locally. Then we also have the debate on many of the questions that were raised by the representative of Anundsen. How good are we to see the individual students? How good are we to organize this? It is my experience that many of those debates do not come about. But in some places you've got it done, and there you have, for example. come to the good thought that it's a very bad idea to think that you're going to have one principal for six schools. So you've come to realize that it's good to have competence in each school to lead a good school, just as you should have a good competence in a municipality to run a good school. I have previously mentioned an example from Halden Arbeiderblad – it was a chaotic debate, but it ended with the common recognition that dedicating a principal to a school, a professional leader, a good leader, was a very poor solution. Even in a tight time they found out that there was some grip that was more correct than others. The left believes in getting this debate back. It is actually provided for in the agreement concluded between the Local Governments’ Central Associations and the Education Organisations, which states that a debate is to be held before establishing local working time regulations and working time agreements, or setting targets for the school. And ‘school target’ translated into another type of language in the Norwegian language means that you agree on what you want with the school. And getting such a debate, a theme day about school's professional content, I'm sure you'll get better. And so it is that in some places where one has decided systematically and systematically that it is better in school if one has clear learning goals, there are clear expectations about how to measure those goals, the efforts to strengthen teachers, the efforts to strengthen school management – efforts are being made to strengthen school management also at the municipal level, such as the United Kingdom. in this great city of Oslo with 40 p.m. linguistic minorities – you get good results. It is not that the public cannot deliver good results. They can do it, but it has to be challenged. The left chooses to take the debate based on the opinion we have of municipalities. So we want municipalities that are real and strong, and we want local politicians that can work that way. The representative Anundsen should be praised for drawing up a rather broad-spectrum debate, where we get all these dividing lines on the table. So I'm not going to go into the debate about who was the best or the worst in the transition between two governments. I'm just going to be careful to say that the one who's best at bringing up what I've now formulated, namely, revisiting a local debate about the school, will have the key in his hand to whether the school is going to be a good school and a priority school. It's useful to mobilize people. The left believes in it, and we're going to contribute to it as a school party nationally and locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e1207	I want to thank you for the debate, and I think it is important that in the future too a strong focus is placed on impatience in improving the quality of school. Then I agree with the representative of Dagrun Eriksen: I am glad that the Council of State Solhell is not a history teacher, for his students would probably have believed not only that the party of progress had been in government before, but that they had also done so for a very, very long time. It's with respect to not reporting quite correctly, unfortunately. Then the situation would be completely different and much better, of course. But it's completely uninteresting. What the government really is doing here is creating a reality that is completely different in here than what it is out there. Governments therefore continue to create expectations for students and parents who cannot be delivered locally. It is not that they cannot be delivered locally because the municipalities do not want to, or because the municipal politicians do not want to give priority to school – because that is what the municipal politicians want. The problem is they don't have enough room for action to do that. That's where the challenge lies. And in order to create the economic space you can of course choose to give the municipalities more free money, but then you have to give so much that it is not actually cut in the main welfare services in the municipalities. And this government hasn't. It is true, as the Council of State says, that in 2006 more money was transferred to the municipalities and that the real growth was large, but since 2006, the real growth has been negative. As a result, the offer we give our students today is not good enough. It's very sad. The representative Opheim said that he trusts local politicians to assess this with school structure best. Yes, I agree. But there's a difference between assessing school structure on the basis of a liberal economic framework and discussing school structure on the basis that you have to save money. There are two completely different discussions. And if the municipalities had room for action to make an assessment of what was the best educational and professional school structure, without constantly having the axe over the head in terms of cutting money, I think we would see a different kind of school structure than what we see is the result of this government's policy. And of course, it's wrong when the representative Lena Jensen claims that the safest medicine to shut down schools in the districts is to vote the Progress Party. I can't even go into that kind of statement. But what I can go into is that Inger Enger said that I had said something about how I didn't understand how the Center Party could live with the district policy of this government. I didn't say that. I asked how they can live with this government's secondary school policy. The example I used finds one all over the country, not just in the areas defined as districts. Finally, I note that the Progress Party is the only party that supports the Education Association, the FUG and the Student Organisation's ear-marking initiative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e1224	One thing I at least agree very much with the representative Eriksen and the representative Anundsen in, and it is that we are happy that I am not a history teacher in the Norwegian school. I'm happy for it myself, and I'm sure my possible elephants are happy for it. They would have had a teacher – the intermediary talent can be discussed – without professional competence, without a study score in the profession, and who also does not have a teacher’s education. That would hardly be a good idea. That being said, there were other things I agreed with several of the representatives in the hall. I thought this debate presented several other perspectives on how to provide better adapted training locally. To what Eriksen and others were into, I think there's a little bit of a difference in the view of the parties on the Stortinget that one should first of all concentrate on improving the content of the hours we have to better meet the students, or whether one should expand the number in hours. I think we have to create a new school day with more hours and a different content and better content for the hours we have. Some of the most positive thing the previous government did on the school grounds was that an actually extended school day for the smallest students by nine clock hours. But very much of what we know now is that the quality of the teachers we have, how they teach, how to follow up, that national tests, etc. Find a place – and that means a difference that we have enough time. We're well behind the OECD average in the number of hours. Perhaps the most unambiguous advice given to us by the OECD and others who assess Norwegian schooling is that schooling should be expanded and improved. So the representative brought in a different and important perspective, namely local school owners. Some of the things we proposed after the quality message, a bill that is currently being heard, are an obligation to submit a report. A report in itself is not important, but it is a technique and an approach to creating the debate in the political environment and the commitment, activity and competence of the local administrative environment that can carry it forward. I will end by saying that even though it is now such that all other parties, as far as I can understand, have rejected that proposal for ear-marking and thus it is not implemented by this government, neither by another government nor by which the Progress Party could possibly sit, there is in any case a broad deal about the bet on the intention of Anundsen's interpellation, more custom-made training, better teachers, more early effort and a strong local commitment to it. Thank you for the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e1239	Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-09.ana.ud352e1252	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
