ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e26	The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e29	On behalf of the representatives of Geir Jørgen Bekkevold, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a representative to strengthen the ethics of the State pension fund – abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e34	The representative, Per Arne Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e37	On behalf of Kari Kjønaas Kjos, Jon Jäger Gåsvatn and myself, I will be allowed to submit proposals for measures to ensure financial management and cost control by health companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e42	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e62	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Kristin Halvorsen State Council Grete Faremo State Council Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. The first main questions will be asked by Mr Bård Hoksrud.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e81	I have the pleasure of asking questions to the Minister for Transport – perhaps not unexpectedly. Every week we see headlines in the newspapers around the country about serious traffic accidents where lives are lost on the roads. In 2008, 256 – mothers, fathers, children, colleagues or friends – lost their lives in traffic on Norwegian roads. Studies show that poor roads are often a determining cause of many of these fatal accidents. Even small misassessments can lead to fatal outcomes on a poor and curved road without midpoints and safety zones. This isn't about numbers, it's about the human fortunes behind the numbers. In Westfold and Eastfold, highway construction has turned formerly designated highways into the safest roads in the country. There is no doubt that the central four-field motorway is the most efficient road safety measure available. It is therefore important to focus on a strong and rapid development of the road network in Norway. The government is adding to the poor 230 km new motorway over the next ten years. This is light-years away from the enormous needs of Norway for modern, safe and energy-efficient roads. In addition, from 1 January 2010, the Government will transfer 17 000 km of bad roads with a huge need for repair and upgrading, and which the reform does not take into account in any way in terms of road safety. Everyone knows that a sharp increase in the development of new, modern, environmentally friendly and efficient roads will be the best road safety card to reduce the number of heavy road damage and kill. Do the Councils agree to this? Does the Council of State think that 230 km of motorway in ten years is something you can be familiar with and satisfied with, when we know that Albania, which is one of Europe's poorest countries, has built 759 km of motorway in five years, or more than three times as much road as Norway will build in the next ten years?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e92	I agree with the representative Hoksrud that it has been many years of neglect when it comes to road construction, maintenance and other measures in the field of transport that we need to rectify. Some of this has been done over the past four years. We have a very ambitious national transport plan for the next ten years. That means we're going into action already in next year's budget. So this is our country so often that we're going to bet on motorways, but it's actually also necessary to bet on other types of roads, if we're going to have the ambition – as the government has – that people have the choice of where they want to live, and if we want a varied business life across the country. So we have a strong upgrade with a view to maintenance – literally. We are investing in road safety; we have more than double efforts there in 2009, and we are going to intensify our efforts further. Then it's important to build highways and other roads. And then I actually think that when the county councils now get the responsibility for 80 pst. This means that it is a decision on roads — and that the focus on what is to be given priority comes closer to people where people live — because it is in safe hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e101	It is good to hear that the Council of State agrees that we have the challenges that I challenged the Council of State, but I do not agree when the Council of State says that we have made a strong commitment to refurbishment and expansion. So we're going to be building less than 10 miles in the middle of the next year. This year we were to build approx. 10 km, and we've built 6 km. I don't want to say that it's very ambitious. I am concerned when the county councils are now going to take over these 17 000 km by other national road, which is in poor condition, and which would have been completely different when they were transferred to the county municipalities. The counties are unable to care for these roads. Already now we hear rumors that the county councils are considering spending money that they were going to spend on, on completely different things in the county councils, because they are unable to carry out the other tasks that you have, which are required by law. Here comes a sum of funds. They are not earmarked for road construction. I want to ask the Council of State what she will do to ensure this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e108	First of all, the county councils are given on the road – literally – means that follow the national roads that they are now taking over and that become state roads. Secondly, they get an extra $1 billion in free money. Third, we're going to put $2 billion at the disposal of a loan arrangement. It means an activity growth in the new county road network, including the old one, on a total of about 50 pst. So it's closer to 50 pst. more activity. Then I argued that the county councils play on the competence of the state road system from state to state, and so they have a different way than today to give priority to the roads and the routes that they think are most important, first.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e115	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Arne Sortevik.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e118	The administrative reform leads us to shift responsibility for the roadside from one level – one responsible: the state – to 19 county municipalities. Does the Minister of Transport really think that by moving the roads further away from the state's money-rich box, the pace of expanding a modern road network will be greater than we've seen in recent years? That's my one question. The second question concerns road safety. When we move responsibility from the state level in parallel with funding to 19 responsible county municipalities, what measures are being taken to ensure road safety when responsibility is shared between 19 different bodies in relation to a total responsibility earlier – with the state?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e125	322 billion over 10 years must be spent on roads, ports and fairways. So there's an increase of 100 billion dollars in relation to the existing plane. It's quite obvious that it means a stronger effort. Then there should still be close contact with the county councils. The State shall continue to be responsible for ensuring that the county authorities have the means to carry out their tasks. For road safety work, we have more than a double effort this year, and we are going to step up further. A total of DKK 6 billion shall be used for road safety measures over 10 years. When the county councils are now responsible for such a large part of the road network, it goes without saying that the cooperation with the county councils in this field, which we know they are busy with, needs to be strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e132	Øyvind Halleraker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e136	I would like to continue a little bit with the government's four-field ambitions. It's true that there's 230 kilometers in the 10-year perspective, but it's actually as small as 12 kilometers each year for the first four years. So it's going to be 90 miles. My prognosis is that the government is not going to do this, and the government is going to be in deficit all the time. That's because costs are increasing, roads are falling due and traffic is increasing even more. The main problem is that the government does not take the steps that can ensure that we get an appropriate and modern road network developed much faster than today. On the right, many new solutions have been introduced in its alternative transport plan: narrow four-field solutions, OPS solutions, fund solutions. What is the reason why the Government does not support any of these proposals, which could give us a much better road network in Norway more quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e147	I'm very pleased with the commitment that Right now shows for commerce. If they had shown the same commitment six years ago, it wouldn't have been that much to repeat after them. Then to the funding. We share the ambition to get the most out of the money. Hence, the Government is trying out new solutions. This is why the State Road Service now looks at a model where one contractor is given responsibility for one route when it is in charge of development, maintenance and operation for up to 15 years. That's why we now have some projects that should be felt especially in our own posts. When it comes to some of the Right's proposals, there is no way to get past that there are costs in some projects, after some experience relating to, for example, (C) 2005-2008, (C) 2005-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C) 2006-2008, (C)
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e156	Knut Arild Hareide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e159	Traffic safety is about attitudes. That is why attitude-creating work is very important. In that case, children and young people in particular must receive the necessary training. I thought I had a long way to go. There are some parties that actually propose to drop the UP, and that shows that we have a long way to go. Safe Traffic plays an important role in the work on traffic security and is doing a very important job for road safety, especially among children and young people. Today, according to the application that Security Traffic has sent, they only get a third of what they ask to cover their important work. The Committee has been consulted on Safe Traffic, so we are deeply concerned about the work to be done because of the resources available. Will the Council of State give priority to Safer Traffic for years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e168	I quite clearly agree with the Transport Committee's leader that it is important to focus on road safety, and so does the Government. We'll double the effort and more than now in 2009. We should strengthen others, including: with different measures such as midpoints and rumbling fields, but also on the holding side – speed, rush, seat belt and youth. And so it's that Safety Traffic does a very important job, and it's that the red-green ones in the committee have also taken up the same thing that Hareide is now taking up, that Safer Traffic could do even more work on more means. I'm set to go for a round to see if we can get the Safe Traffic Committee and the Committee to meet with any new funds already in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e175	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e178	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge Kristin Halvorsen. This week was the result of the fourth supervisory review of the quality of the school. For the fourth time, the conclusion is that municipalities are failing one of their most important tasks: ensuring a high-quality school. To the Evening Post, the Minister of Knowledge says: ‘that the supervision has confirmed the concerns of the education authorities that the law is not being properly understood.’;» [[...]] For the Right, it is short and well incomprehensible that this concern has not been followed up by action. How is it possible to do 70 pst. by the municipalities, without immediate action being put on their agenda by the Council of State? I don't doubt Kristin Halvorsen's commitment to our kids, as she says, but why isn't the Council of State not as concerned with math as with food? It is fully possible to be for knowledge and against bullying at the same time. The attention of students means that the school councils have very little time. It must be embarrassing for the party leader that her two predecessors from SV have obviously slept in most hours since the first supervision in 2006. In fact, SV has run the Department of Knowledge for four years without taking any action. The case is a bad scratch in the SV paint. If SV is concerned with social mobility, a good school with appropriate training is a safe way to go. When school fails, it's the least resource-intensive students who have the most to lose. The Minister of Knowledge has now announced new supervision at all schools in 2010, but more supervision will not solve any problems unless the problems are addressed afterwards. I assume that the Minister of Knowledge shares the analysis by the Right that the quality control in school is not working. Where does the Council of State think that the previous two Swedish ministers of knowledge have failed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e194	First of all, I refuse to participate in a description of Norwegian school as if it were an eternal mess largely characterized by a lot of bad work. It's not like that. There is a lot of good work going on around Norwegian school, but we have some challenges. These challenges have been addressed, for example: in the report on quality at school, because we know we are too poor in some areas. It concerns the evaluation and feedback of students, it is precisely the supervision and supervisory report of the Education Directorate that the representative of Aspaker is involved in, but it is not a matter of concentration on improving the quality of education in the future. The challenges we are now facing from the Directorate of Education in the context of the 2009 reports they have for their supervision are, on the one hand, better to follow up, but, on the other hand, whether the Training Act and the Law are designed in such a way that what is meant is unclear. This is a significant challenge, because there has to be some judgement as to how to follow up what is in the Training Act. But we've now had some challenges in this oversight, and we're going to take them with us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e199	The problem in Norwegian school is not all that works. The problem in Norwegian school is all that doesn't work. From the Right, we will strongly warn against overexplaining and continuing neglect in quality control at school, as the consequence may be that we will develop A and B schools. The problem with the measures the Minister of Knowledge has taken to deal with his or her affairs is that many of them will take a very long time before they work, and that this is inadequate. Therefore, the Council of State must think again and have room for more thoughts in its head at the same time. The Council of State should also recognise the problem of the government taking care of important results in school, and that it takes us away much of the basis we need to intervene on behalf of students and follow up schools with quality problems. Does the Council of State see that the lack of transparency and transparency on school performance and development may pose a threat to the quality of school and to pupils in schools who are «forgotten» by their municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e206	The results of the national tests are not secret. The main emphasis of the Government is to publish the results of the national tests in such a way as not to invite them to rank. There we have great support from parents, teachers and students alike. It's one of the grips of our government, the red-green majority, has taken to increase the acceptance of the national samples and to make the best use of the national samples. The results are public for the school to which they apply. They are public to those who may want to see them. But I have to warn the Right against believing that the results of the national tests are kind of sesame-sensible. They can tell each school something about how it is based on a national average, and they can tell the municipalities how they are located. It gives school owners and school leaders the opportunity to follow up on each school. But they say little about the progress from one year to the next, and they say little about the results, because we know there are so many other factors that affect it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e211	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Svein Harberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e215	The supervisory system that we have in relation to the municipalities is an important and good system. It is good to help municipalities guide the work they do. It's good at getting knowledge about how things work, and whether they work, and it gives you an opportunity to intervene. What is important then, when you carry out supervision, is, of course, what your focus is and how you follow it up. I record that the Council of State explains something about the lack of follow-up with unclear legislation. For me, it's not that unclear laws give a right to refrain from doing things, but that there may be challenges to implementation, we're in. Then we record that several state councils have done nothing, and my question is therefore: what immediate action will the state council take to get the 70 pst. that ignores the internal quality control in school, to take this task seriously?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e224	First of all, it's not like two red-green knowledge ministers haven't done their job. On the contrary, this has been asked to be supervised, because there was concern that the follow-up is too poor locally. And then I don't think there's any "kick-fix" on this. There is only the recipe that is concerned with continuum concentration on quality over time. However, we have received some challenges from the Education Directorate in connection with this supervision, and one of the challenges is whether the expectations sent to the municipalities – i.e. through the Training Act – clearly govern the work of the municipalities under the Training Act. That's one of the challenges we're going to see more.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e229	Bente Thorsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e232	Follow-up to the Norwegian Training Act is not a clear reading after the fourth national supervision. We agree on that. According to an article in the Evening Post of 16 November, which takes into account the fourth national supervision, whether the school owners and private schools have a good enough system to organise the students in groups, it appears that almost 70 pst. by the municipalities that were checked had deviations in relation to the requirements of the law, while only 30 pst. of the private schools failed in relation to the group breakdown. Could it be that private individuals have taken the point and understood the points of the Training Act? The questions are then: can it be that private schools take knowledge, quality and learning more seriously than public schools? And does the public school have something to learn from the private school?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e241	I would be very careful to generalise the characteristics of private schools up against public schools, because the proportion of private schools in Norway is very small, fortunately, and the variations between the public schools are very large, so there are a lot of public schools you have a lot to learn from. One thing that will address some of the issues raised by the 2009 supervision is what is on the government platform, namely that we need to develop a standard, change the training law to ensure better teacher resources for primary school. It will be one of the tools we can use to ensure better follow-up to precisely this which is about group size, division, etc. So we have further measures in addition to what we have previously introduced in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e248	Øyvind Hope - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e251	Control and supervision are important in order to ensure quality in school. However, it is precisely for this reason that it is important to focus monitoring and supervision on the conditions that are the most important for quality. Following the supervision of the County of Meldal Municipality in the South Trøndelag in the last winter, it was found that the County Council, the Directorate and the Ministry of Knowledge did not agree on the requirements for the use of the so-called Inn on tunet solutions, where students who need alternative learning venues receive several hours a week on a local farm. The Ministry of Knowledge's signals on how this is to be done now mean that many schools have to close this important offer to students with a high level of practical skills. This is an example of how control and supervision have reduced the quality of training, as many teachers and students have experienced it. The question therefore arises: Will the Council of State look at how to facilitate the use of schools for tuna and other flexible training measures and ensure that control and supervision focus on what is really important for quality and strengthen the provision of students instead of weakening it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e260	As I'm familiar with the matter raised here by the representative of Håbreek, it's about how to ensure the quality of the education of the students participating in the Inn on the tune, because the Inn on the tune is an incredible opportunity for many students who have gone out of school and who want and need a closer contact between practical work and theory. But then we have to make sure that it works that way. What I understand is that there have been some questions about whether the training and combination requirements have been well enough followed up, so that these students have received good enough quality on the offer they have at Inn on the tune. But I'm going to take a closer look at that case and make sure that the idea behind the Inn on the tune, namely to offer more practical training to individual students who are particularly tired of school, can be realized by a better quality, and not by the disappearance of the offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e267	Then we move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e270	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. Greenhouse gas emissions from road traffic increased by an average of 2 pst over the period 1990–2007. per 1 % years. In 2008, road traffic stood for nearly 20 pst. of the total emissions of greenhouse gases in Norway. The increased use of biofuels is one of the simplest and cheapest measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from road traffic in the short term. Until now, biodiesel has been exempt from the car diesel charge, to introduce biodiesel as an environmentally friendly alternative to fossil diesel and make it competitive in the market. The Christian People's Party, on the basis of the climate agreement, has supported the Government in the implementation of the biofuel market. However, in the State budget, the Government claims that the imposition of the turnover charge has made the exemption unnecessary. This is wrong. A number of large transport companies, such as Schenker, Posten and Ruter, have, on the basis of the tax exemption, invested heavily on high blending biofuels on their vehicles. The Transport and Communications Committee has now conducted consultations with more than 70 different hearing bodies, and a clear majority of these actors initiate or terminate their interventions by making themselves unintelligible for the Government to remove the exemption from biodiesel. My question is: does the Council of State believe that the Government's proposal for a charge will contribute positively or negatively to reducing road traffic emissions? What kind of climate action will the Council of State now take action in its area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e285	This is a matter that is currently being discussed a lot – for good reason. It's a matter for which I understand it has been a great commitment, from various hearing authorities. I just have to formally say that the matter itself belongs to the Minister of Finance, but I am not going to discharge my responsibility and commitment in order to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. With the basis mentioned by Hareide, the government has put forward a proposal to remove this exemption. There's a whole government behind it. It has our hearings in the Committee on Budgets, one of which has pointed out the various contradictions. My answer today must then be that this is a matter which is at this point in the Financial Committee in the Grand Duchy, because it is a matter for the 2010 budget. I would say that the most important thing that can happen in the transport sector in order to reduce greenhouse gases is the development that will now take place in the car industry – i.e. towards more environmentally friendly cars. Then we also have a strong commitment to ensuring better collective provision in the most populous areas – thus contributing to less use of cars and also less emissions. And then a little hint into this charge: the requirement for blending biodiesel is fixed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e297	Norway's only biodiesel producer, Uniol in Fredrikstad, now has separate permits. They have invested in a new facility of 350 million. kr. The investments were made under the condition that the tax exemption on biodiesel would be continued. We also experienced in this room that Per Olaf Lundtegen brought with him a bush, just to show his commitment to the possibilities that this has, and that, among other things. has a significant impact on the transport sector. Partisan Liv Signe Navarsete said to Stavanger Aftenblad on 4 September this year: "We will create thousands of new green jobs. We shall use the forest, our hydropower and wind both on land and at sea." Is the introduction of a biodiesel tax to be seen as a first step in the Centre's large-scale green workplace, green business and green transport?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e309	State Councillor Meltveit Kleppa receives the floor for the follow-up to the transport policy section of the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e312	I think I'm going to have to take the center part, and I'm going to confirm that the central government has stated quite clearly that they still want an exemption from this charge. That's the advice they've given to the big group in the Center Party. Then I have the opportunity to stress that the charging device is of course very important. Hareide addresses a very important question when he says that we need to focus more on greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector. I'm glad that we have an offensive national transport plan, one with a total of NOK 322 billion, where the track becomes important, where other collective services become important, and where changing habits among people becomes most important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e319	There will be three follow-up questions – first Kjell Ingolf Roppstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e322	Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen said this week that a collective government is behind the proposal for a car diesel tax, despite the fact that it becomes more difficult to reduce emissions in the road sector. On 27 October, the formerly mentioned Per Olaf Lundteigen, a financial spokesman in the Central Party, stated to NTB that his starting point is that the fee should be changed. He says: ‘If we want to increase the use of biodiesel, we must facilitate it, inter alia, by making the use of biodiesel more profitable than oil diesel.’ It is quite understandable, as Lundtegen used the occasion at Norwegian Forest Follum to present the Center Party's promise of support to environmental technology companies. So my question is, is the Council of State agreeing with its party trap Per Olaf Lundtägen and the government in this matter, or is the Council of State fully behind the Government's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e334	It may then be up to the Council of State if she wishes to answer questions which are clearly outside the Ministry of State, but which are, to a large extent, related to the same theme, in border countries. So the state council gets to choose if she wants to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e337	Let me answer the question of unity or disagreement, by confirming what the Minister of Finance has said, namely that there is, of course, a collective government behind the budget that is being presented. So it's like this has happened a process in retrospect, right, here there's been some rounds of hearing about this, which has been the reason for the views that have emerged from the Central Party government. Then I will probably add that I stand firm by the fact that there are many other measures in addition to the facility of the charging system that have an impact on greenhouse gas emissions. I've been responsible for construction at 40 pst. Of the stationary emissions are from barley, and where we have turned on with regulations. We need to look at different ways of aligning policies so that the transport sector benefits more.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e344	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e347	I have a follow-up question to the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen, since she is also Minister of State in the Government. SV has been very good at double-communing its view on the biofuels issue. When Kristin Halvorsen was Minister of Finance, she also expressed herself that it was possible to imagine a change in this charge that the Government proposed. My question to the Deputy Minister of State is this: Is she comfortable sitting in government when she is not even able to influence such a small and concrete case – a matter where the entire opposition stands together and agrees with many of the SV's own deposit representatives? Is it true that the Workers' Party is going to trump its views when there is a rowdy majority who won't introduce that fee?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e356	The President then makes it clear that the Storting has not been notified of the appointment of any Deputy Minister of State in the Government. But I understand that the State Council of Halvorsen still wants to answer the question in its power of being the leader of the party SV. So, please.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e359	It is right to stress this and that the constitutional responsibility – as the State Council of Meltveit Kleppa was also involved – lies with the Minister of Finance, but I have no need not to answer the question raised by the representative of Siv Jensen either. Let me just say a little bit about the reason for the proposal to remove this tax exemption. It is that we have introduced a sales ban in the case of biodiesel, which is a blend into the normal diesel of 2,5 pst, and that is the large volume of biodiesel so far. So when we have that as a tool, we can get this market up without a tax pick-up. What has come, and on which there has become a great deal of focus since the budget was presented, is this high-level interference, and, as several speakers have now pointed out, the market for this high-level interference is threatened by the introduction of the levy. I think that is a reasonable debate, and a debate that deserves lighting in Stortinget after the budget has been presented. But then the budget you present is presented by a government as a whole. And it's only if the three parties agree on changes to that budget, that there are changes to that budget. I think that in terms of some of the arguments that are related to what may be of new jobs related to this, it is difficult to see that the tax change itself will be what threatens these jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e369	President! To a manifest misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e374	It is that questions have now been asked relatively far out on the side of what was the main question. The President intends to address the next follow-up question, recalling that the main issue was climate action in the transport sector and is related to biodiesel as an element in its relation, and that follow-up questions should address the main issue raised. Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e379	My question goes to the Minister for Transport. After all, the Minister of Transport is in the Stoltenberg government, and the Government’s new political platform Soria Moria II states that the Government will: ‘Set sustainability requirements for second generation biofuels and continue to contribute to the generation of such fuels in Norway’.» My question then is: What contribution to the continued production of such fuels in Norway does the Council believe that the Government has given by increasing the fees and thus reducing the profitability by as much as DKK 1.79 per year? - A gallon?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e389	I really appreciate the reading from Soria Moria. Both edition I and the one currently in force, edition II, are very readable. Then, too, in the same Soria Moria, it is a moment that the Financial Committee takes into its final position. So it gets to me that I get to concentrate on what I can do in my field. There's Borghild Tenden an industrious reminder to me of strengthening collective service. There we're going to strengthen Transnova, where we're going to provide even more environmentally friendly cars, including following up with more electric and hybrid cars. I look forward to constructive cooperation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e396	Nikolai Astrup – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e399	It could be tempting to say something about both jobs, like the Halvorsen Council, about food on the tank and about trees on the tank. Despite the fact that we have received more interesting reports, albeit in a somewhat different form, about what is going on in the inner circle, I would like to ask the Council of State what she thinks is that the Prime Minister is running through the biodiesel tax internally, but leaves to others to defend it externally.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e404	... I don't know exactly where to start. [[Munterheit at the Council of State and in the Chamber]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e409	One possibility would be to start answering.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e412	Let me first say that the focus that is on different workplaces is very good, same game it comes from. This also applies to the focus on using wood in several fields. So I guess I see that the single-country council that is responsible for the fee and that goes in the field here is the finance minister. It's a little unexpected for me that we here in turn and order all of us are going to focus on this fee today. The Minister of Finance has done well for his point of view.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e417	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e420	My question goes to the State Council Halvorsen. I want to start by referring to a reader's letter written by 14-year-old Moiko in yesterday's Evening Post. Moiko writes, among other things:\t\t You can change the "All my life I have been lying in front of the others; all my life my school has been boring." Further: ‘The teacher will have a student who is right next to the average but who works hard.’ And on the other hand, ‘The result is a student who does not receive any challenges or help, who never has to work and who eventually stops following. This is how the system destroys students who could become future inventors, researchers, doctors or astronauts." And, not least, the worst: ‘No one cares. No politician has mentioned my problem." Moiko is not alone in Norwegian school. On Monday, the Central Statistical Office presented a compilation of the international comparative studies referred to in the Norwegian School. It goes down mainly in all areas, unfortunately, despite the record size of resource use. The PISA study may be worst. It indicates that in all the three disciplines measured, mathematics, reading and natural sciences, the trend is very negative. This is in addition to the fact that the media are full of opinions about teachers who are both bullying at school and who are barely coming to school. 29 pst. By the students in Oslo School, they say that the teacher usually comes in time to the hour. Then my question is: isn't it time to abandon socialist dogmatic management of the Norwegian school, to put aside the ambitions about more of what obviously doesn't work, and to put forward a new proposal for training law, which focuses on quality, learning, competence and a stronger focus on the evaluation of pupils and teachers in public school?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e455	The issue that Moiko raised in a reading article in the evening post yesterday addresses one thing, and that is that although you adopt and keep focus on quality and custom training, students who are professionally ahead of the rest of the class should also have challenges adapted to their level. Even if you decide to do this, you're not sure that it's going to be real in every class room. My ambition for the future is not to bring about many new approaches for the school, but to ensure that we implement the grips of which there is a broad political consensus. Then I have to say that the representative Tord Lien is extremely poorly involved in what is Norwegian school debate. In 2008, a high-quality report was presented at school that addresses the results we have received in relation to international tests, which are results that go back ten years in time. There are many grips that we now need to work on to improve the quality of Norwegian school. It's e.g. broad agreement that too poor feedback is given to the students from the teachers, i.e. feedback that allows you to know what to work with to improve, and not just in general say ‘as good you have been’ or ‘no, this was not good enough’, but quite concrete. We've decided to introduce a principal's education because we know that the management of each school is very important. We also undertake a new teacher training where we will focus more on professional immersion – especially in high school – where we also address pedagogy and practice in a different way than before. Then we make sure that we have more resources in school through what we have said in the new government platform – create a resource standard that ensures that we have enough teachers to follow up each student so that everyone gets challenges based on their assumptions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e464	The representative, Lien, is a useful companion, and I am very happy that the government has got a schoolteacher training that was absolutely necessary. However, one of the things that is pointed out in the Statistical Central Bureau report is that the Council of State has not addressed. Of course, I'm not trying to blame the challenges we have in the Norwegian school, at the Council of State, which has barely gotten hot in the chair. But they point to, among other things, to school activities with no clear intention, they point to poor school learning pressures, and they point not least to weak culture for learning. Statistical central agency writes, among other things: based on a report made by Klette and others. in 2008: ‘Especially in childhood, the feedback given is not very precise and is to a small extent learning-supporting.’ Isn't it time to consider introducing grades at a lower level than you have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e478	These issues are no surprise to us who have been working on quality in school for a long time. Just what is presented here in relation to assessments and unprecise feedback, which makes it not clear to the individual student what to work with to improve, is one of the things that is now strongly focused on. We have come up with a separate regulation on how to do this. A numerical character does not provide much information to the student. Providing clear information on what to do better, where to strive and what to do is what to do – that is, to give feedback on learning and not just an assessment of what is the result of previous learning. This is a very important topic. There is a lot of important work to do with this in school, but it is quite right that we need to be much more focused on the fact that what you spend your time at school should have goals and meaning, and that what you get from feedback should have goals and meaning in relation to giving the student an idea of what you have to work with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e483	Two follow-up questions will be raised – first Mette Hanekamhaug.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e486	In its previous answers today, the Council of State has outlined that more teachers are the solution of a lot in relation to quality in school. Today, 13,000 children are bullied and harassed by their teacher. 29 pst. By the students in Oslo, they say that the teacher only occasionally or never comes exactly to the hour. Several students in the country point out that fighting and unrest interfere with education, while teachers either do not have the skills or want to address the problem. My question to the Council of State is therefore: why does she believe that the number of teachers is the most important solution to raise the quality? And: does the Council of State have proposals for concrete measures to address these challenges?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e495	I think we have to have a lot of thoughts in our head at the same time. One relates to the quality of the teachers we have. Many of them are very good; many of them demand more continuing education. We've now increased our focus and focus on that. Then we're going to change the teacher's education. We're doing it now. One of the things to focus on is more practice and how to follow up in the classroom. In addition, we want a mentoring system after being a newly trained teacher. This means, in practice, that a fresh teacher can be followed up by a more proficient teacher in the classroom. So we're doing a lot of work to increase the quality of teachers and to encourage teachers to evolve further. It's also a big challenge that many teachers have too many students to follow up in their classes. This is why we want a change in the training law that will ensure a certain number of students per year. teacher. It will also give the individual good teacher the opportunity to follow up on each individual student.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e504	Elisabeth Aspaker – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e507	Better adapted training and greater focus on basic skills are the very floor plan of the Knowledge Lift. It is important for motivation that all students are given challenges and opportunities to extend and challenge their own potential. As the SSB report confirms this week, it is important that the learning pressure in Norwegian school should be increased. In 2004, party leader Kristin Halvorsen mentioned national tests in school as parody, and stated that SV would have away national tests for all primary school students. Today, the Minister of Knowledge is standing up to defend national tests for all pupils. Does this mean that Halvorsen has given up its resistance to national tests for all from 2004 and can we expect that the Council of State will now actively contribute to all municipalities using the results of the national tests in order to obtain appropriate training for all students?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e516	The national samples in 2004 were parody. It also turned out afterwards that they were poorly professionally thought out. They were carried out with a publication that invited them to rank — a ranking that gave the impression of schools that there was no professional basis for giving. That's why we took a very important step when the red-greens got the majority in 2005. We took a break in the national tests in 2006. We've reworked the content of the national tests. They are of a very different professional nature today. We publish them in such a way that they can be used at school and in the municipalities, but not so that they invite them to rank schools. Thus, both teachers and students and parents see a completely different benefit in today’s national tests than was the situation in 2004. I find it strange that the Right People have not taken more self-criticism for ideological and political reasons to have rushed through a test system for Norwegian school for which there was poor professional basis. Now we've got a completely different grip on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e521	Then we go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e524	I have a question for the Minister of Transport. Although the budget’s appropriations for transport have grown annually, this has not been enough to follow the increase in costs in the civil engineering sector or the need to upgrade infrastructure in line with population and traffic growth. Now we see that the government is once again failing to prioritize the money to the area that is most important, namely to make sure that people get home safely. Every year too many people die in traffic – last year the whole of 256, and four times as many were seriously injured. During the examination of our national transport plan, it was agreed that action should be taken to reduce traffic accidents. Meeting accidents bring great human suffering and loss to society. The economic loss of society is conservatively estimated at between DKK 7 billion and DKK 10 billion each year. We know that the construction of semi-trailers on the high-traffic roads of two and three fields can give us 80 pst. reduction in the number of deaths. Despite this, despite the enormous human and economic losses caused by car accidents on society, the government in its proposal has only granted money to 9 km of mid-stations. This is, of course, much lower than the need and seven times less than in the 2010 Right Alternative Budget, where we want to realise another 60 kilometers of middle. The right will go to the fight against traffic death, and the question we're asking is how the government can defend such a weak bet to save lives. The specific question will then be: what will the Council of State do actively to get out of this deadlock and ensure a follow-up to the objectives of the national transport plan on middle-parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e538	Midwives are one of the most important means of preventing meeting accidents. It's also so that these so-called lockdown fields with rumblings have a lot of meaning. In the case of road safety, the Government is also busy with measures other than midpoints, e.g.: to focus on speed and rush, on seat belts and on youth. The road network is arranged in such a way that it costs a lot to continue with the development of the middle parts. One started at the farthest end, where one got more for the money. We need to intensify our efforts. One's going to start at a distance of a few miles, so that next year's number is 33 km. The red-greens in the committee have brought up two themes for me, and I see the importance of looking at the possibility of change within the framework available. It's one of the debts of Trygg Trafik. The second is if there are more middle pieces. I'm set to see if we can do that, so we can do this further in 2010. But let me say that a national transport plan of 322 billion kroner, one of which is also going to have more quadruple roads, is making a big difference in relation to today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e547	I stick to concrete measures that physically separate traffic. So, as I said, Norwegian highways need 750 km of middle parts. These are sections of many accidents in which pitfalls would save more than 70 lives each year, according to the Road Directorate. The government's goal is specifically to build 84 km of pitfalls in the first four years. So next year, it's only going to be built nine. If you assume that the need is 750 km, you can see that the government’s coverage rate is frighteningly low 1.2 pst. If this continues – we have played a bit with numbers – it will take 83 years with the government’s corrective action before there are pitfalls in every place the trades union believes there is a need for it. This, of course, is too passive. The right is uncertain whether we can count the Council of State as an ally in our fight against traffic death, and therefore ask even more concretely: How many kilometres of highway will the Council of State laws be secured with mid-terms every year during this metropolitan period?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e556	I am set to follow up the national transport plan. It is my ambition that he should be followed to the point and the point. It also applies to the kilometres with the midpoints that Halleraker has already referred to. Then it is that road safety has to go on many fields. The individual of us sitting in a car, either as a driver or as a passenger, has a responsibility. So we need to intensify. We're going to spend $6 billion over these ten years on road safety measures. What we see is that we have to work right. Right now we have a happy number that shows that from last year, the corresponding day today, the number of traffic fatalities has fallen by 50.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e563	Three follow-up questions are raised – first Ingerd Schou.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e566	Governments are busy doing the right things. Traffic safety is important for people to come home safely. The midpoints are 100 pst. effectively eliminate the meeting accidents. What, then, is the reason that 200 meters on the E39 at Flekkefjord, which has taken six lives in the last few years, is not a priority of the Government – 200 meters at Flekkefjord? An immediate measure could also be to set up concrete pottery.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e571	It's right as Ingerd Schou says. There are tragic accidents. Let's hope that Flekkefjord doesn't happen anymore. Let's hope that with different measures, we can reduce the gaps in the pact with what we see now, and keep the zero vision at bay. And then I also have to say that I'm very happy for Right's commitment now when it applies to both traffic security and traffic overall. One of the reasons we haven't come around in general, either with road maintenance, road safety or road development, is that we wear ourselves out with many years of neglect, even from the previous regime.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e578	Arne Sortevik - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e581	It is also true that to correct many years of neglect, we have never had more money than we have now. The frail facts are that almost 100 lives could be lost in meeting accidents in 2010. They call the facts that a pitfall of between 500 and 750 km of today's road network is needed to eliminate the meeting accidents. The economic fact is, it could cost almost 5,000 million. kr, between 50 and 70 m. kr per. fatal accident. Why, then, does the government build a parking lot at a speed of 9 km per year? Is there a lack of money, a phase-in of the economy to avoid overheating, or is there a lack of priority in eliminating causes of fatal accidents?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e586	So in 2010, it's going to be 33 kilometers with midpoints, and then we're going to take care of the expansion of the coming years, so we're going to achieve the goal of 750 kilometers over the decade. So I ask myself, why are we no longer here, even when we compare with Sweden? It also has something to do with our types of ways. For the Swedes, this has been much easier to get in place, because they have a wider route initially. It's more complicated here, the simplest is extended. Now we're going to do the best we can. And then we have to bet wider than just middle parts. If it had been that simple, we would have just set it up. Here we need to invest widely in road safety measures. Here we have a significant strengthening already in 2010, and we have double efforts in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e593	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e596	The Minister for Transport said in his reply to the representative Øyvind Halleraker that she would follow up on the NTP ‘to the point and to the point’. Then I will challenge the Minister of Transport on the following: The government is behind about NOK 1.5 billion on the road budget, at the base of NOK 1 billion on the rail budget, and the promises to double the reward schemes for the urban areas have not been fulfilled. In total, the government is down by over DKK 2.5 billion. In addition, the Minister of Finance has warned of restrictions on the use of state money, and he has warned that the level of taxation should not be increased. I want to challenge the Minister of Transport on this calculation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e602	In the National Transport Plan, the Government announced an increase in the period, i.e. one would not distribute these amounts per year. year(s) and end of year(s). It is also shown in the 2010 state budget, as the Ten say. There's something below the mean, so it means a stepping up. And then we're always going to evaluate the annual budgets, so now our systems are. When the Minister of Finance now announces narrowing down, I believe we all understand the need for it. At the same time, this government prioritises transport, and has presented an ambitious national transport plan, which I intend to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e607	We can then see that it was a peaceful morning for the Minister of Defense in her first meeting in the spontaneous Question Time in Stortinget, but she is naturally warmly welcomed back. The oral question procedure is now over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e615	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President refers to the overview distributed at the premises of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 2, from the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has been withdrawn. Question 3, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen to the Minister of Defence, has been transferred to the Minister of Justice, who is directly responsible. Question 13, from the representative, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, to the Minister for Oil and Energy, lapses, as the questioner has a history of disease. Question 15, from the representative of Terje Halleland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directing him. Question 17, from the representative of Torgair Tåldal to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, must be postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 18, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Food, who has left. Question 19, from the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance who is directly responsible. In addition, question 9 disappeared when the questioner was not present, and question 14, when the questioner had a disease defect.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e641	‘The national tests for English in the South Trøndelag show that the three best 8 classes in Trondheim are at private schools. The difference between the best public school and the best private school is a total of 1.5 character points. Due to differences in the funding of public and private schools and resulting parental funding requirements, many parents will be excluded from sending their children to private schools. Is the Council of State concerned that many children are excluded from choosing the best schools, based on their parents’ finances?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e648	Let me just make a few comments first about what the national tests can tell us about schools, because there are some assumptions in the question that I don't agree with. For example, national tests for 8th class measure what the student has learned from 1st to 7th grade. When you start in 8th grade, you start in a high school -- it may not have been a 1-10 school -- and you don't measure the quality of the school you actually attend. But that gives the teacher and the school a starting point to evaluate how the students perform, and what kind of student mass you have. So the question is, what is a good school, based on how you perform in relation to the national tests? Unfortunately, social backgrounds, i.e. the educational level of parents, the minority background and the ability to master the Norwegian language, have a major impact on school outcomes. This means that a school that has a student base where parents have largely poor advice and low education, or there is a high proportion with a minority background, can well be a very good school, even though they score less than the average nationally. It has to be a premise when I answer this question, because it's not necessarily that these private schools that Tord Lien refers to are the best schools when we measure what the schools actually do. So I understand the question this way: is there a goal for the red-green government to reduce parental pay at private schools so that it is possible for more parents from an economic point of view to choose private schools? It's not. We don't plan to reduce parental pay at the private schools. Our strategy in dealing with these issues is that municipalities and school owners work systematically in relation to what the national tests can tell us, namely how the municipality or school is ranked in relation to the average of a country. We do that by having a greater focus on quality — and there is much more attention now than it was a few years ago — by each school following up on the results they have received and analysing the background for them, and by each teacher following up on their students.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e662	I note that I should have used the 5th class as an example, but the results are basically the same there. I feel that the Council of State meets itself a little in the door with its argument today. That social background affects the results, we all know, but it's reinforced that many groups have no opportunity to send their children to schools that I choose from the results to interpret as at least marginally better than public schools. My main reason for fighting for private schools is that they're going to be a corrective to the public school, which I believe today's debate has shown that they are. They are a corrective in terms of the focus on quality control and they are a corrective in terms of professional results. And when the Council of State said earlier today that there are too few private schools in Norway to be able to compare them properly with the public on other parameters, then I expect the Council of State to agree that we had tolerated a little more private schools in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e671	No matter how the representative Tord Lien asks, he won't get that answer from me. The focus we have, as a red-green government, is to make sure that the public schools become as supreme as possible. There are many public schools that run very well, which are a great inspiration for other schools – and then there are many schools that have something to go after. Of course, all schools should have something to stretch after, because there are no schools that should be stifled; there should be development work all the time. But I have no faith that privatising a large part of Norwegian elementary school will lead to the healthy competition that will make the public school stretch. I have much more faith that we're concentrating our resources on the common school that we have, and that's going to be a good school for everyone, no matter what the background. We have to take it as our starting point and make sure it gets the best quality possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e676	I'm very glad I had another follow-up question, because I think the Council is in on something here. Because even in countries where there are very liberal rules for this, most kids go to public school. It's the public school that needs to be in focus. Although the Progress Party would have an impact on its policy – and we will have a beautiful day – 80 pst. by students to go to public school. So that's where we agree: that's the public school we need to focus on. So here in Oslo you have free school choices, which also opens up competition between public schools, which I think is quite right. In Oslo, some of the best schools in the country have been created with public funding and public operations. Then I ask the State Council if she sees that the competition between schools for students, for resources, for the best teachers, is involved in drawing up the whole Oslo school up and down, and that free school choice is part of the explanation for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e683	It's amazing how someone can believe that if you compete with others, it should be so powerfully stimulating. My perception is that if you compete with yourself, you can really be able to get speed on both yourself and the environment you're part of. After all, parents in Oslo do not shop school places around and around the world. You're busy with the local schools. You're concerned that they have good quality. I know that many people, for example. examines the number of students per year. learner at one school or another, and then go after it, because it is a quality sign that is clear to parents as to how their own children are being followed up. What we know develops a good learning environment in each school is good school management — and teachers who do not teach their students just for themselves but participate in a community and learn from others [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e692	At school, you also learn the time!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e698	From the representative of Trine Skei Grande to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘After the signed experience, 12 Uighurs have been sentenced to death in China for the past few weeks. What initiatives will the Minister of Foreign Affairs take against the Chinese authorities, and in international forums, to prevent the execution of death sentences?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e706	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e712	This question, from the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen to the Minister of Defence, has been transferred to the Minister of Justice who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e715	I am glad that the Minister of Justice is the right person, and that he is not away, because that makes the probability of getting an answer much greater! My question is as follows: ‘The defence as the rescue service operator needs optimal equipment. Often it is pointed out that the heat-seeking cameras the defense has on their rescue helicopters are too bad. The quality of these cameras can be directly lifesaving. Does the Council of State realize that the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice will soon find a solution to a problem that has persisted for too long?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e724	I'm happy to be here – also because this is an important question. As the person responsible for the rescue helicopter service, I am concerned that the service has the necessary prerequisites for people in need to be rescued as soon as possible. Time is the most crucial factor in search and rescue, and as a result, over the last few years, several hundred million dollars have been invested in setting up an obstetrician with doctors both at Banak, Bodø and in the OR. In addition, Rygge is converted into a fixed base for bystander with a doctor. This is fully in line with the decision of Stortingen in Innst. S. No 156 for 2001–2002, where the Stortinget asked the Government to establish a 24-hour presence watch with doctors on the continental rescue helicopters. In addition, as is well known, a new base has been established in Florø with bystander and doctor, and it has now opened on 1 September 2009. I know that the questioner, the representative Ellingsen, and I've been equally concerned about these conditions for a long time, and now I'm happy that this is in place. In addition to these major measures, the operational budgets for the rescue helicopters have been significantly increased in order to carry out heavy maintenance on the helicopters, which appears to be very well maintained and operationally safe. These measures are, in my opinion, the most important measures that need to be taken in order to have an effective rescue helicopter service that is to be provided with the best possible preparedness across the country. In the case of helicopter heat-seeking cameras, the Ministry of Justice and the Ministry of Defence are in continuous dialogue. That's what we've been doing with the other measures, we're totally dependent on that. We cooperate well on this and understand that the cameras are no longer optimal, and that there is newer and better technology in this area – and also in the market. However, it should be pointed out that the cameras are still working, and that the defense is doing a good job of maintaining the quality of these – as well as possible. I can assure you that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, concrete measures are now being taken to find a solution to the need for new heat-seeking cameras as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e737	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We probably remember both of them on 16 May 2002 when we had a heated debate here on the rescue helicopter service. It's correct, as the council says, that the assumptions that the Stortinget at the time let, and that there was a great deal of agreement, were faster response, there was a doctor on board, and there were some qualitative changes. Because there are important assumptions, as the Council itself pointed out, I'm glad that he now showed that you're in dialogue to look at the cameras as well. Because it's a paradox, at my discretion, that if you have a doctor on board, if you move out earlier, but don't get the help because, for example, the heat-seeking cameras are too poor, as the other assumptions that the council pointed out do not help, because the tool to find the injured person who is gone does not do his job. Then you will not have to use the doctor, and you will not have to use the amazing tool that the rescue services in Norway are using. So it would have been tempting to challenge the Council of State whether he has a time horizon on this, and whether it's parallel to the phase-in of new rescue helicopters. In that case, the Council of State has too much time, at my discretion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e746	This is largely linked to the budget. If you want new cameras, it costs money, so we have to find a solution. As far as the time horizon is concerned, we are looking at the future budgets that are coming. But at the same time it is that in the case of the large liftings for the rescue helicopters, I have to say that the Stoltenberg administration has actually shown that it is possible to act reasonably quickly to make these great promises. In 2001–2005, this happened very little in relation to the base structure, and we know that in the last four years, there has been a 24-hour shift of medical care, which costs much more than the cameras, but which has actually been prioritised to put in place a rescue service that helps to get a quick response where it really applies. But I fully agree with the questioner: we also depend on good technology, and it works with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e755	Once again, I will be generous: I will, of course, give the government the brilliance, for there is no doubt that the Stoltenberg government has taken greater hold – and faster grip – than the Bondevik II did when this was the case. Well, of course, it has to go a while from decision making in the Storting until it can be implemented, but all the credit for what has been done in terms of medical and base preparedness, because it is positive. But there's another paradox in this, I think. If the Council of State is thinking of looking at another helicopter he's responsible for, the police helicopter, then they have the cameras on board, which I think are moving to the degrees that the rescue services have. And even though police helicopters – at least to some extent – operate with tasks other than rescue primarily, there has also been a lifesaving tool for them in aid actions. I therefore hope that the Council of State will be able to look at the experience of police helicopters when looking at the speed ahead towards new heat-seeking cameras. Because it is a fact that the Council of State itself has some influence on the budget he mentioned instead?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e762	I have a lot of influence on the budget! I am very pleased about that, and that is why I have agreed to be the Council of State. That's why we've also done a lot, in my opinion. We've been working on putting these placekeepers in place – especially. But this is how we see a lot of good equipment – including the police, as the questioner points out here. And it's clear that when you sit in police helicopters and look at the camera equipment you have there, you get real inspiration to help refurbish the camera equipment on the Sea King machines. It has given us good inspiration to continue that work, and I am convinced that cooperation between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice will bring a good solution to this in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e772	« The road system of the Member States classifies the state of road surfaces on the national road network into five categories, from very good to very poor. The corresponding classification is not used on the county road network, inter alia. because there is no common maintenance standard for the whole county road network. This is determined by each county. From 1 January 2010, the counties will take over highways and highways. How will the Council of State ensure a common standard on the road and ferries?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e779	There is a lot to say to road users and society that the road network is well maintained and that the operation is carried out in the same way as possible around the country. This is particularly important when you see it in the light of road safety. Large changes to the default may have an adverse effect. Prior to the administrative reform, the municipalities have all a responsibility for a company that is as large as today’s national road network – approx. 27 000 km of state roads and 27 000 km of state roads. The standard for maintaining national roads is adapted to traffic, so that the low-traffic road has a lower standard than the high-traffic road. It is the state road authority that manages the county roads today and makes agreements with each county municipality on the basis of which standard will lead to the maintenance of these roads. In many cases, the national road standard is the basis for the conclusion of operational and maintenance contracts. The county is now responsible for most of today’s national road network – about 17 000 km – as a result of the administrative reform. This is a much larger traffic area than the current state road network. The county councils and the municipality of Oslo took over the road network from the state with the standard it has and with existing rights and obligations. It means taking over the responsibility of the state for a series of running contracts, including: functional contracts, which may relate to both operations and maintenance. Similarly, the county will enter into contracts that will bind the standard to the ferry equipment. National guides to the standard on the public road network will otherwise be assessed on an ongoing basis, while ensuring the freedom of action of the county councils. This may apply to both development and maintenance measures and operations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e794	Thanks for the answer. The description is well known, i.e. the actual and physical movement of responsibility for poorly maintained roads. Now, the Council of State's answer was that it might be problematic to have too many standard deviations. If one common standard goes from one country to another that owns 19 different standards in the worst case — that at least there is a possibility to deviate from a uniform standard — that gives cause for concern. There is also cause for concern that we will have a split of standards both on the road network and on the ferry network in Norway. What is the reason why we want to wait to see if there should be government leadership and not start it from the start of the reform?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e801	It's my impression that there's a strong commitment out in county councils to secure a good and well-functioning behalf. In fact, most of the counties have their own transport committees that follow closely, which have now set a course for how to deal with the situation in 2010, and which I do per year. Date is safe for me, the product will be very good for the new responsibility that they are now given. Then I still announce for the sake of order and security that we shall follow closely. There is, of course, an important point here, which the Blackvik representative must also take with him, and that is that it is the same competence as it is today when it comes to these roads, which is to follow further. I'm thinking about the State Road Service.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e808	Thank you again for your answer. I stand here with a copy of Manual 111, which describes the standard for operation and maintenance on today's national road network. I allow myself to quote from the foreword: ‘To implement the standard on a country-by-country basis, road users are ensured against crossing quality or regional border offers and between districts. The standard requirements specify the levels at which society is earned.’» This is the standard we have today. The question is what standards we get after 1 January 2010. Is it so that the level at which society is served changes when the states take over the highways? Or will the Council of State ensure that the same operational and maintenance requirements as we have today also apply when county councils are to take over ownership of today's national road network?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e822	It's not like today, despite this manual, that there's no difference between states and states. It is a cooperation and listening process that takes place in relation to the priorities of the individual counties. There are many stories that go on that, when one also today crosses a state border on today's highways. What I would like to repeat is that I have more confidence in the management of this by the county councils, in regional elections, which, in contact with their local representatives, with spokesmen, etc., will also focus on the standard and on their new responsibilities. But let me underline one more time: we're going to follow closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e832	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘In the context of an overall spatial and transport planning, municipalities experience that the failure of the State to coordinate objectives, instruments and progress hinders their own urban development. Will the new Council of State at the Prime Minister's office address these issues?'
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e841	I have recorded – I have actually been abroad – that there has been a wide-ranging discussion of the Council of State at the Prime Minister's office. This is under my responsibility, and that is why I respond. In St.meld. No 26 for 2006-2007, the Government's environmental policy and state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state of the state and in previous communications such as St.meld. No 23 for 2001–2002, Better urban and urban environment, and St.meld. No 31 for 2002–03, the Stockholm Communication emphasises the need for state activities to build up under local urban and urban development plans and strategies, where the plans are consistent with national policies. These are the leaders who have been asked to follow up on regional and local land plans by the county councillors in the letters of allocation. Nevertheless, conflicts and uncertainties arise in the meeting between the municipality as a planning authority and the state as a landowner and sector manager. The Ministry of the Environment and Statsbyggen have cooperated on how the state can best sweep its own door even by locating state-owned businesses. Cooperation has resulted in a report that was available in August this year. The report contains a collection of examples of state location in cities and agglomerations. Examples have been selected in dialogue with state enterprises. Let me add that several of them were from the representative's homeland and were located, according to that report, just in the Drama, which had a few of the best examples of how to put state businesses in the center of the city in a positive way. The report shows that good solutions can be found, especially where the municipalities actively use the municipality plan to influence the location. It points out, however, that the own objectives of State enterprises are given priority. Activities often experience the national targets as obstacles, rather than seeing the potential and positive effects of good localisation. A key challenge is to better integrate national objectives into the target structure and internal priorities of state enterprises. I, as responsible for the planning part of the Planning and Building Act, want to bring together common national guidelines that can be incorporated into governance documents for state enterprises and businesses. It is essential that state activities comply with the overall objectives of environmentally friendly urban and local development. This includes, inter alia: activities with many employees and large public visits are made easily accessible by being centrally located in cities, where there is good collective coverage.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e858	I thank the Council of State for the answer. When the wording of the question was ‘the new Council of State at the Prime Minister’s office’, it was intended that the question should be asked there. The reason that one used that concept in the question was that the Stortinget was operating with the coordination minister Schjøtt-Pedersen on his questionnaire manual at the time. What the Council of State says is excellent, and of course, special examples from the Drama must be very good to bring with them. But we know that in many things have e.g. a statement of objection by the agricultural manager, such as: the transport authorities wish to build a one-way route, as in the municipalities of Hå and Sola. That's where agricultural management says no because of soil protection. The question then becomes whether the Minister for the Environment and Development feels the need to bring the new Council of State to the Office of the Prime Minister and involve him in these matters, where it is contrary to the policy of the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e867	I don't think I'm going to continue such a pingpong around this council, but recognize that one of the most central problems in Norwegian central government is that we have a very fragmented state, where the different departments often work for different goals. They take care of different social interests, and they may conflict with each other. The coordination of municipalities, county councils, state agencies, state enterprises and the state as such is a difficult and difficult task. The coordinating body we have in Norway is the Prime Minister. Otherwise, it's a huge challenge to get better cooperation all the time. Of course, I am prepared to engage in matters where the representative of Greece or others in the Grand Duchy believes there is a need to do more to bring the various bodies together.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e874	I thank you again for the answer. It's really not State Council Solheim that's the starting point for this question. He is becoming more subdued, but I accept that this is the responsibility of the Minister for the Environment and Development. For Storting, it is a little confusing when we are first told that we should have a Minister of Coordination, that there is a Council of State at the Prime Minister's office. Then my conclusion is that the job of this Council of State is primarily to manage the Prime Minister's office for the Prime Minister. It doesn't need State Council Solheim to answer. But I am glad that the coordination work to be done then is in good hands, especially given that there are now double staffing in the Prime Minister's office to deal with this issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e883	I have to agree that it is in very good hands with Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, and with the Council of State Karl-Eirik Schjøtt-Pedersen to coordinate it all, it is in very, very good hands. But even in as good a hand as it is, this is a real, big problem. You notice – how to bring these processes together – in a lot of areas. We have e.g. a number of state establishments. There may be a contradiction between their desire for a particular location and the desire of a municipality or community to locate elsewhere, given transport pattern, or otherwise. These are processes where there is no solution once and for all, but which require daily involvement and review. If the representative of Greece brings in such things from Buskerud, I am more than prepared. It's e.g. a discussion around the hospital location in Drammen, where there are considerations that speak for both one and the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e893	I will allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment and Development the following questions: ‘Concession on the planned 420 kV lines between Ørskog and Fardal and Hardanger is currently under appeal. If the powerlines are built according to the concessions, they could have serious environmental consequences. Among other things, the power lines will affect UNESCO's heritage area, unique fjord landscapes that are at the core of the world's leading destinations, and protected areas. In what way and when will the Council of State be involved in these matters to ensure that the environmental aspects are taken care of?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e902	Let me start by saying that the question raised here is among the most important and difficult environmental challenges Norway will face in the years to come. If we are to expand significant new renewable energy in Norway, an important objective of this will necessarily be exports. It will also require grids, and it will then be faced with balances between important considerations in the development of new renewable energy and the local environmental damage that can result from a grid. So this is a big and important and difficult field. The power lines to which the representative Lødemel refers involve significant natural interference. These are difficult issues precisely because the security of energy supply and the production of more new renewable energy necessarily have consequences for the environment and other societal interests. I therefore understand that the planned pipelines have created great commitment and considerable resistance in several of the municipalities and regions that could be affected. As referred to, these cases are now under review. The Ministry of Oil and Energy is the concession authority in complaints against electrical installations. The Ministry of the Environment will have an important role to play in this treatment, and I have to ask for understanding that I cannot express myself specifically now. However, I can promise that the consequences for landscapes, natural diversity and cultural memories will be carefully assessed before final decisions are taken. I would also like to assure the representative of Lødemel that both the Minister of Oil and Energy and I are very aware of the environmental challenges associated with the necessary strengthening of the grid in Norway. The Government has received the agreement of the Storting to a strategy to strengthen environmental, aesthetic and local community concerns in power lines, and of course this should be used as a basis for further work on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e913	I thank you for your answer. The new 420 kV powerlines in Hardanger and between Ørskog and Fardal are highly controversial. Among other things, we see: that the NHO Travel Life strongly warns against the consequences of these lines. At their 2007 national meeting, an issue was agreed where the NHO Travel Life reacted very strongly to the fact that Statnet is planning power lines in fjord and mountain landscapes in the West, which are among the most important profile areas of Norwegian travel life. In the Municipal Report of September this year, it appears that such a line can have major consequences for UNESCO's World Heritage Site at the Geirangerfjord, and that this may result in the removal of this area from the World Heritage List. The major negative impacts are not cost-based nor did they contribute to the costs associated with air voltage. Will the Council of State ensure that the negative consequences of air voltage are taken into account and that this is included in the final decision-making framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e920	It is obvious that all the negative effects of such a grid, as is highlighted here, must be included in the overall assessment that needs to be made before a conclusion is reached. I think we already have to face up to the fact that many of the new renewable energy sources that we in Norway want to expand have precisely this kind of balance. There is not a single new renewable energy source that is conflict-free, as some seem to think in the debate. Even something as nice as solar energy is enormously land-consuming. Wind power will all have, but not necessarily in every place. A large expansion of renewable energy in Norway will bring with it a significant grid, which will either have to go into soil and marine cables, which are significantly more expensive, or into air cables, which have many of the counter-arguments against them that Lødemel draws. So I just want to warn that this is going to be one of the significant environmental debates in Norway in the future, and it can only happen on the basis of all the arguments coming out in full transparency before conclusions are drawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e927	I thank you again for your answer. I have a little follow-up question. These lines will also have major negative consequences for the proximity to large areas of housing and buses. There are many well-founded protests from people who point out that the lines will have a major impact on the quality of life in their neighbourhood. In the Naustdal in Sogn and Fjordane, a possible construction of the line leads to a family getting the whole life base on the garden laid in ruins. The same thing is true for Standal on Sunnmøre, where a garden that the family has built for generations might be dislocated. Also in Nordfjordeid, in Ålfoten, in Sykylven and many other places, the new 420 kV powerlines can have large negative consequences. The right and the other opposition parties have called for new policy guidelines for the use of earth and sea cables, where the environmental aspects and proximity to the bustet are strengthened. Will the Council of State take the initiative to make such changes to the guidelines for cabling before the final decision is taken in the concessions currently under review?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e936	I have to repeat, of course, that it is the oil and energy minister who is responsible for this policy area. But, of course, all the essential arguments in this case must be put forward before a final decision is taken, in order to balance the benefits and disadvantages of the different options. The fact that there is very significant local resistance or involvement in such matters, I think we all understand. It has been said that the greatest demonstration in Oslo's history, possibly with the exception of demonstrations against the Iraq war and in the EU struggle, was against power lines through Nordmarka. So it was in 1946, a year after World War II. One would think, from the history books, that the Norwegian population was occupied with completely different things than power lines then. As similar commitment as it was in Oslo in 1946, it is fully understandable that it is in many Western towns associated with these.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e944	The question goes to the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘As is known, high expectations for the presence of propelling oil/gas deposits outside the Lofoten are present. A clarification of possible start-up and search drilling is pending until the management plan for the Lofoten and the Barents Sea are dealt with. At the same time, there is an application process under UNESCO status for the Lofoten area of the Directorate for Nature Management, despite the lack of wish to do so from municipalities in the area, fearing that this will prevent the desired oil operations. What will the Council of State do in the matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e953	The Ministry of the Environment started work on the possible nomination of the Lofoten area for the UNESCO World Heritage List on the basis of initiatives and policy decisions in five out of six municipalities in the Lofoten area in 2004. On 30 March 2005, the Directorate for Nature Management was entrusted with the task of preparing the nomination/application for the Ministry of the Environment, a work that is very extensive due to the requirements of UNESCO and the international community for documentation, justification and comparative analysis. The work was started after the start-up meeting of 22 August 2005 with the government council Knut Arild Hareide, of the Bondevik II Government. In September of that year, the sixth and last municipality, Vågan, decided to support the nomination. I even attended various meetings with the Lofoten municipalities on the occasion of the case. The application was intended to be completed by the Norwegian side in December of this year. The Directorate for Nature Management had therefore come very far in this work when the Council of Lofot expressed its desire in its decision to wait with the nomination until the management plan for the Barents Sea and the sea areas outside the Lofot in September this year. The decision of the Council of Ministers shall be notified to the Ministry of the Environment. However, it was not considered an effective use of resources and competences to complete a major nomination work just before it was completed. The Directorate for Nature Management was therefore informed by letter of 2 November this year to complete the nomination/application in accordance with the original timetable as far as it can be done within the limits and limits set by the decision of the Council of Lofot. The Directorate for Nature Management has been asked to conclude cooperation with external professional institutions and to clarify the transmission of application material developed during the project period. The best basis for assessing the documentation and analyses generated by the nomination process in the context of the work on the management plan will then be available. If the relevant municipalities of the Lofot Council change their policy decisions, the Ministry will reconsider whether it is relevant to continue to nominate the Lofotene region at that time. Therefore, the contradiction between the nomination process and the work on the management plan indicated in the question does not exist. I therefore see no need to take initiatives beyond what is described, in order to be able to handle the two processes in the context in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e966	I thank you for your answer. It seems strange when the Council of Lofot is sceptical about the implementation of the application, in the fear that this may restrict the possible withdrawal of oil and gas deposits. This is based on experience in other parts of the world, where the sites have gained world heritage status, and a strong limitation of local and national self-government rights is experienced. This applies to restrictions relative to industry, which are not permitted in a UNESCO World Heritage Site, for example: before fishing, shipping, power generation and oil and gas operations. What will be done to eliminate the overall impact of a secular heritage status, so that the municipalities of Lofoten who are subject to it will be given an overview of the significance of such a status for current and future commercial activity in the area before an application is sent?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e973	From my contact with the Lofoten municipalities and their rapporteurs, I have a completely different impression than what is conveyed by the questioner here. There is an impression of municipalities that were significantly enthusiastic about a world heritage nomination, and that they wanted it to happen, and also municipalities that want all the benefits of a world heritage nomination, when it is to be balanced against the various oil-related issues and other issues that come with the management plan. So I don't see that you want a postponement, like lack of enthusiasm or lack of understanding about the meaning of the World Heritage Nomination, on the contrary, but it's natural that you want, before you take a stand on behalf of your people, to have all the cards on the table at the same time. It is a balance that the Lofoten municipalities and the seventh and last Stortinget must re-examine the world heritage nomination and the many tourist opportunities that lie in Lofoten versus the importance of oil activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e980	I see the decision taken in the individual municipalities plus the Council of Lofot, as a signal that one is uncertain as to whether such an application process of becoming a World Heritage Site can lock future conclusions. It's the scepticism of these municipalities and the Lofot Council. So the minister doesn't share these views?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e985	My impression is that there are divided opinions in Lofoten, as elsewhere in Norway, related to any oil drilling. The representatives of our two parties in the different local government in Lofoten have a very different view of this. The same applies to a number of other lots. There are simply different opinions in Lofoten on the question. The fact that Lofoten’s rapporteurs do what leaders normally do in such a situation, namely wanting all the facts on the table – all the different things you have to weigh up against each other – before taking a final position, I consider that quite natural and something democratic leaders do very often and naturally. Finally, you have to weigh this against each other. It will only be an advantage for the process that all the work on the nomination has come as far as it can, so that you do not lose unnecessary time if we were to decide to send an application, and so that you have all the consequences – and I would say all the enormous benefits of such a world heritage nomination – on the table when you take a final position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e994	I have a question I would like to ask to our competent state council that is linked to gay asylum seekers: ‘If an Iranian homosexual seeks asylum in Norway, the foreign authorities will assume that he will be able to live up to his sexual orientation if this occurs within the socio-cultural framework in force in Iran. The framework for what is socially accepted in relation to gay life is very limited and associated with possible criminal reactions in Iran. In practice, Norwegian foreign authorities require that the homosexual conceals his or her orientation. Does the Council of State consider that it is an acceptable requirement to apply to a gay asylum seeker?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1003	First of all, I would like to remind you that it is the Foreign Affairs Directorate, UDI, and the Foreign Affairs Department, UNE, who is dealing with individual matters under the Foreign Affairs Act. I do not have the authority to influence UDI's and UNE's handling of individual cases and the outcome of these, but here it is to the extent that a general rug forms the basis for a price-priced question. Nevertheless, it is important for me to stress that anyone seeking asylum in Norway, who has a need for protection under our obligations under international law, gets the protection they require – and they should. Norwegian practice is such that lesbians and homosexuals who are at risk of persecution could be covered by the Refugee Convention and thus receive asylum. There is always a concrete and individual assessment of whether an asylum seeker is at risk of an infringement on return to his home Member State, which indicates that he is entitled to protection in Norway. This assessment refers to the individual situation and circumstances of the applicant in the country from which the applicant comes. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has developed specific guidelines on gender issues in relation to the refugee assessment. The guidelines shall contribute to a holistic approach. They concern both women and men and are relevant to lesbian, gay, bisexual and transhumance. So to the practice of foreign administrations for gay asylum seekers from Iran. I am aware that in Iran there are restrictions on the expansion of public space, both for heterophilic and homosexual. Forcing someone to act contrary to deep-sensed opinions could be persecution, but it has to be assessed specifically in each case. In principle, persons must be expected to adapt to some extent their behaviour, clothing, etc. to the social and cultural codes in force in the country in question, without defining this as persecution, even if we should never disapprove of it so much, both for heterophiles and for homosexuals. It is therefore necessary to assess the extent to which restrictions restrict the individual's life-exploitation and the danger to which he is exposed by breaking such restrictions that he/she cannot reasonably be expected to adapt. It is clear from the Director of Foreign Affairs' practical note on Iran that the UDI suggests that a gay person will be able to live out his sexual orientation if this occurs within the socio-cultural framework of the Iranian society. Consequently, UDI assumes that homofiles are not subject to persecution on a general basis in Iran. The decisive question will be whether the applicant will be in a particularly vulnerable return position on an individual basis. I am confident that the assessments and decisions made by UDI and UNE in these cases are in accordance with the applicable laws and conventions. I am also aware that the foreign agencies are closely following the situation for gays in Iran.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1016	I interpret parts of the Council's response in such a way that it must be expected that a gay asylum seeker will have to deal with the socio-cultural norms in his home country. In practice, in countries such as Iran and Iraq — and at best — it means getting married to a heterosexual marriage because the big family and society will expect this. Does the Council of State not see that this will be perceived as a highly integrity-enhancing process? Another question that can also be asked is why it is acceptable to put this requirement to a gay asylum seeker, while never finding the same thing to do with a political refugee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1021	I just have to refer to my answer. This, however, shows a good part of the dilemmas in the need to pursue a consistent asylum policy and the criteria underlying it for being able to stay in Norway. There will be many circumstances in other countries that we do not like, as we dislike, and that we do not support, but that will not be qualifying on the basis of the criteria that provide the basis for residence in Norway – that is quite clear – without saying that we support this kind of situation. So I just have to show that here the Norwegian foreign authorities make qualified and good judgements on each individual case, and whether it is sufficient to reach the strong and reasonably strict criteria that are needed to be able to stay here in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1026	Thanks for the answer. During the central government, a review of current Norwegian practice of the refugee definition in Article 1a of the 1951 Convention was carried out with the aim of softening practices. It was clarified that a person with gay orientation is initially entitled to asylum if the person risks being persecuted by returning to his home country by taking the consequences of his or her orientation. And with effect from 15 January 1998, the central government launched the guidelines for new asylum criteria. The need to clarify the need for protection of this specific group was seen. This group is also vulnerable while staying in Norway, and some also have to live in hiding here. We've seen serious reports of hatred against homosexuals, and I know that the Minister of Justice has taken the lead in combating this persecution. Nevertheless, will the Council of State review practices in relation to homofilation and consider mitigating the requirement for protection?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1031	First, I'm very happy to have this question, because I think it's a very important question – it points to the dilemmas of the whole administration. We will follow the practice that UDI and UNE have in relation to those who are struggling with the type of situation that the queryer points out. I also expressed that in my answer. There's a basis for doing that. And that's a particular reason because we see that in many countries – including in our own country – there is a hatred for especially younger people who have a different sexual orientation from what most of us might have. It's totally unacceptable. We have to meet that on many teams. There are many of these situations to be discussed when compared to the definitions that apply to stay. But that we should focus on it and follow practice, it should be allowed to ask.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1039	From the representative Anders B. Werp to the Minister for Justice: ‘There is considerable and valuable work to be done in criminal matters. How will the Council of State contribute to increasing research on the impact of housing in Norwegian prisons, with special emphasis on what can reduce relapses?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1047	This question lapses, as the questioner is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1053	‘Buys of new life-saving helicopters are continuously deferred and are marked by disagreement between the relevant floors. Will the Council of State at the Office of the Prime Minister ensure coordination of this process?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1058	I am not the Council of State at the Prime Minister's office, but I have been transferred this question to me, and I am happy to respond to it. I would like to say to the representative, at the outset, Höie, that this is a comprehensive process, and I would like to stress that I do not see this process being slowed down by ‘disunity between the relevant levels’. But there's a lot in this process that takes time, it's quite obvious. The acquisition to which the representative Höie refers is a very comprehensive process that will have an impact over the next 30 to 40 years. New rescue helicopters will lead to a significant upgrade of the Norwegian rescue helicopter service and have ring-effects against many different actors and stakeholders throughout the overall rescue service. Life-saving helicopters are highly advanced and expensive non- shelf tools and therefore require a comprehensive pre-acquisition assessment. In my opinion, there has been little in relation to rescue helicopters in the period 2001-2005, when the Right was in government, and after the presentation of the paper on rescue helicopter service in the future. However, from 2005 to 2009, an accomplice has been established at all bases and a new base has been opened in Florø. In addition, it was decided not to use the option for the NH90 and the acquisition project was started. It was, in my opinion, a prerequisite for us to get this whole process going, and that's important. I recognise that preparing the reason for the acquisition of new helicopters has taken longer than we had foreseen. This has its causes in different circumstances, but after the Stoltenberg II government launched a new acquisition process in 2007, after, for example, the having assessed the NH90 option variant, the Ministry of Justice has worked closely on the decision-making basis for the acquisition. This process has been initiated by Innst. S. No 156 for 2001-2002 by the Justice Committee and the signals presented here, as well as subsequent budgetary positions on progress. Since it is important that the investigation work prior to the external quality assurance is carried out without limitations other than that of the defence to be the operator, the process has become more extensive than previously planned. Because this is a significant acquisition also in an economic sense, with costs of a total of several billion kroner, I, as the responsible state council, am concerned that we are acquiring the right helicopter capacity, and that the process is being carried out in a proper manner. For this reason, we will also have an external quality assurance of the choices made before a decision is taken. As I said at the outset, I do not remember in the representative's description that the process is marked by "disagreement between the relevant departments", and will not accept the assumption of the question in this way. In such a comprehensive process with significant economic consequences, it is natural for many organisations to be heard — and will be heard from. There are many functions to be filled through a rescue helicopter, and therefore many interests will also emerge along the way. It is therefore a prerequisite that all needs are brought to the surface and assessed with a view to ensuring that the material acquired is, overall, the most appropriate for the task. The acquisition is carried out under the direction of the Ministry of Justice. Both the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Defence are represented in the project, and the process appears to be orderly and inclusive for all parties. When new rescue helicopters can finally be in place, it is too early to establish, as there are many factors that may still affect the process. However, I have guarantees from the Minister of Defence and the supplier that today's Sea King rescue helicopters can be operated towards 2020, but we are therefore working to replace them before that time. Let me finally say that this government is concerned that we are going to have a good rescue helicopter service. As the responsible State Council, I will follow up on what we stress in the government's political platform to safeguard the security of the population by continuing the efforts of the rescue services and rescue helicopters. The need to replace today's helicopters seems clear, and I am working to ensure that new rescue helicopters are quickly put in place. I would also like to point out that the commitment made to the rescue helicopter service through the establishment of bystander at all bases, as well as the establishment of a new base in Florø, together with the acquisition of new rescue helicopters and the project that is now in progress and well underway, constitute very important parts of the Government's commitment to improving this service and creating security for the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1089	The background to this question being asked what Stortinget believed to be a coordinating minister at one time was the need to ensure a process that met the different needs of new rescue helicopters. I disagree with the history that the Minister of Justice is bringing here. Among other things, it was this government's cancellation of the option agreement in relation to the repurchase of the NH90 that is one of the main reasons why one now does not know when one may have new rescue helicopters. However, the background to the question is, among other things: also that, not least from the health team, serious concerns have been raised as to whether the considerations that are in fact most prominent in relation to the use of today’s rescue helicopters are adequately addressed in this process. How is the needs of health authorities met in the new process?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1098	On the one hand you want a quick clarification, on the other hand you want everyone to be heard. It just shows some of the challenges we have in this project. I would like to underline once again that I perceive it so that there is good dialogue between the stakeholders. But there are different perceptions of how you want the future rescue helicopters to be. That's why it's so important that you take time with the quality assurance regime you work under, so that you don't make a big investment without identifying what you actually need, and what we think you should have done before you go to buy it. I believe that the procurement project that is under way has good dialogue with the departments concerned, that it is precisely the wishes and objectives of the rescue helicopter service, and that the project is just ensuring not only health, but also the interests of other actors in the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1105	The Council of State today, in the same way as he said in the interpellation debate on the May issue, says that one has been assured that today’s rescue helicopters may be operational until 2020. But can the Council of State assure the Government that today's rescue helicopters are not on the ground in situations where there is an urgent need for rescue helicopters, because it takes a very long time to put in place missing spare parts, and that there will not be an increasing problem by 2020?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1110	I can assure you of three things in relation to the rescue helicopter service. The first is that we should continue the great effort we have had in the rescue helicopter service since the Stoltenberg government joined, with the development of bases, security and medical facilities. It's really been a quality promise, unlike what we experienced with the former government. The second is that we're going to run a procurement project where we're going to work thoroughly, but as quickly as possible, so that we get this in place, because we see that we need new helicopters – obviously. The third is that there is considerable money spent on the maintenance of the Sea King machines. I'm going to assure the representative, Höie, that we're going to do what we can to avoid the maintenance challenges we have with the Sea King machines hitting the security people are going to expect from the rescue helicopter service.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1122	The question goes to the Minister of Justice: ‘The prison capacity in the Kristiansand region is so poor that custody prisoners are released against the will of the police and justice, or placed in hotels. Policemen go out in the media with their frustrations. It is a deterrent to both police and judicial authorities, and is dangerous to the justice of the rest of the population. Disposal of prisoners for custody only is unacceptable. What action will the Council of State take actively to create more closed zones and custody sites in the region?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1131	It is true that we have considerable pressure in prisons in Norway. It's not just about the Kristiansand region, it's really about all over the country, maybe with the exception of North Norway. As a result of the police doing an unusually good job a day – many have been taken – there is a pressure in relation to the care situation. As a result, the use of care has increased significantly in the last few months, both nationally and in the South-West Region of Criminal Protection, which includes the Agderfylken and Rogaland. This year, there have been an average of 780 prisoners in prisons. In the last few weeks, the number has increased to over 800 care inmates, and I have been informed in the last few days that the number is supposed to have reached more than 900. The increase is due, inter alia, to: increasing the number of insertions of foreign nationals. It is common for care requirements to vary during the year and for the use of goods to increase during the harvest. Crime and police have experience in managing fluctuations in needs and finding solutions to space needs. In a situation where there is a lack of space, criminal services are a priority in providing police custody facilities. As Minister of Justice, I am pleased that the Government's efforts in the justice sector are delivering results. The budgets of the police are increasing and new instruments used by DNA as an effective tool for resolving several crimes. The most important thing here is that the reconciliation queue is now considered to be removed, in line with the government's promise in the Soria Moria Declaration. Removal of the reconciliation queue – there were 3 000 pending sentences, we had very few seats four to five years ago – has contributed to the release of police resources for police operations. The recent increase in custody may include, inter alia: is seen in the light of increased police force, and this has led to a shortage of custody sites in several places in the country. In the south-west region, the number of custody prisoners has increased by about 36 pst. from August 2009 to November 2009. That's a lot. The police districts and the regional office of criminal services have close dialogues to find solutions to the situation. However, it is not right that custody officers should be placed in hotels, as the representative claims. The government, by removing the pay queue, has improved the capacity of custody prisons. In the long term, it is an objective to reduce capacity utilisation down to 90 pst. in prison. This will release premises for custody in the Kristiansand region and elsewhere in the country. The current situation is expected to be demanding until the prison is completed by 251 places in 2010. Hopefully you'll also be able to notice this all over the country. Increased capacity as a result of Halden prison will help to ease pressure on custody sites nationally. The Ministry of Justice follows closely the situation of custody and assesses ongoing measures to increase the capacity for custody until the Halden prison is completed. In order to increase custody capacity, it is planned to speed up the start of parts of Halden Prison than previously planned, by opening 20 posts in February 2010 and opening another 36 posts in March 2010, before opening prison in April 2010. The plaques will be used for care. In addition, other measures to rapidly increase detention capacity are being considered, including: temporary extension of capacity in existing prisons and other measures to release capacity for custody. Increased use of open cushions and electronic control helps to release enclosed areas for custody. Prisons with a lower level of security may also in some cases be used for custody within the limits and restrictions imposed by the court or the prosecution authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1146	The situation in the Kristiansand region is, as I said, precarious. Much of what the Minister of Justice said sounds reasonable; I agree with that, and let me thank you for the answer. Now, however, we have situations where the custody prisoner sits in the hotel. The media reports on this, so I ask the Minister of Justice to get involved. Another very important thing is that 60 pst. the prison capacity in the South is now used for custody prisoners. That's a lot, but that's not enough. I would also like to point out that it is unreasonable resource use to escort custody prisoners to e.g.. The iron for them to be there for a few days, and then escort them back to Kristiansand, with considerable seizures of police resources and time. Does the Minister of Justice think this is a sensible use of prison officers and police officers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1155	I don't think using prison officers that makes sense, so I fully agree with the questioner. That is why we have increased prison capacity so significantly in recent years. When you open Halden prison next year – that is, a prison with 250 places, it is a significant national lift – you can place them as sons of long judges, among others. there and ensure that places are freed in the districts of custody, so that we avoid this transport. As far as the Kristiansand area is concerned, it's an area that I've given a lot of attention to, first of all, because I think that criminal services are doing a very good job in that district. That is the background for us, among other things. has opened prison in Evje. It's also one of the areas where we've chosen to bet on building down the reconciliation queue. It is clear that it also contributes to the creation of several custody sites in the closed prisons, among others. Prison in Kristiansand. Opening a transitional residence at Grim in Kristiansand is also a factor in facilitating pressure. The efforts of free care in the Kristiansand area also contribute to this. That's what we can actually do immediately. I am aware that there has been a long wish for a closed prison in the Kristiansand area, but that is something that may have to come very far in time. It takes a long time to build, and it will not solve today's care situation. I think the important thing now is that we get a quick start on Halden prison and get those who often sit with long judges transferred. It can relieve the burden on the districts and, inter alia: The Agderregion. And then I believe in the long term, once we've brought down the reconciliation queue, that we're going to notice that we're getting more seats for custody.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1164	It is true that planning closed sites in the South does not provide a short-term solution. Nevertheless, I would warn against believing that Halden Prison will resolve the situation in South Africa significantly. I don't think that's going to happen. Otherwise, we are familiar with the fact that the creation of several open spaces — home soning, so-called electronic shelter — is on a strong footing in Norway. But it solves to a small extent, or not at all, the problem of missing custody sites. Does the Minister of Justice agree with that assessment, and is that not an argument for not building more closed custody sites?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1171	I don't agree with that. I believe that the alternative forms of compensation are just helping to get more places of custody. Over half of those in Norwegian prisons today are sentenced to under 60 days. Most of them are for winning crimes, and many of them have been struggling with drug problems for many years. So they account for more than half of the prison clientele. When we can meet them with other types of reactions than putting them in a closed ward, for example. treatment, e.g. § 12 zoning, e.g. on-tampen-off-soning, home-soning when you have the opportunity to start work and education, gives it more prison places for other purposes. That's why it's so important that we focus on it, because we can do it quite quickly – much faster than building big, new central prison institutions. Prisons have taken almost 20 years to get in place and cost 1.4 billion kroner. I think looking to it and creating good responses to the big big clients who are in Norwegian prisons, and who should really be able to get other criminal reactions, makes sense in many directions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1179	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The police officer in Haugaland and Sunnhordland have reduced police preparedness in, among others. Sauda and Suldal at night caused problems in recruiting police in this part of the district and the opportunities offered by new working time arrangements for the organisation of police work. This appears in an article series in the Haugesunds Avis 6 and 7 November 2009. What will the Council of State do to ensure that there is sufficient staffing in the county offices of the county of Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1188	First of all, I want to tell the representative, Kambe, that I am happy that he asks the question. One of the most important things I can do is to clarify that you haven't dropped the police alert, because it can create a lot of uncertainty out there. Changing one of these situations doesn't mean that you've dropped the police alert. I have submitted the question to the Police Directorate, which informs that police preparedness in no part of the police district has been closed at any time of the day. That's what I think the representative of Kambe will take him home to his district and tell him. The manning situation at Sauda and Suldal County, as well as the Etne and Vindafjord County of Länsmann, made it impossible to cover the whole day with crews from these holdings. It's important. From 5 October to 16 November, it was therefore necessary to cover police preparedness in this area with crew from other police district holdings. In view of the recent recruitment of the holdings concerned and the new negotiations with the members of staff, new service lists have been drawn up from 16 November onwards. As a result, you have active service 24 hours a day. It's fine. Furthermore, the Police Directorate informs that the series of articles in Haugsunds Avis, to which the magnificent representative refers, describes a situation that has evolved over many years. The main problem in the county concerned has been the recruitment situation of police officers, as the representative Kambe is also involved. The police district has for many years taken several measures to recruit police officers and compensate for vacancies. This year, the police district, in cooperation with its staff, has put in place more durable and robust mechanisms to strengthen police preparedness throughout the police district. One of the measures has been better coordination of police-operational resources. There I think we have a lot to go on. It's not just about this district, it's about all over the country. The backup service as a standby mechanism has been phased out and on-going active patrol service has been introduced as a service form throughout the police district. It's important to notice. These are measures that balance and strengthen the provision of police services to the public and the ability of the police to achieve targets. The chief of police is responsible for the allocation of resources and services in the police district, and the chief of police assesses whether the allocated resources should be used for positions or deployed in other important areas to ensure a good police service throughout the police district. So it's the chief of police who disposes of the crew on the grounds of need and preparedness. The situation in the police has been a challenge for years, mainly because it has been trained for a few policemen. I've said that many times, and I think I have to repeat it many times as well. Therefore, the government has increased the admission to the Police College to 552 students in 2009. We increased it to 432 in 2007 and 2008, as I recall, and the representative is probably aware that in the 2010 budget, there is an admission of 720 students. This has never been so high in Norway. By comparison, 648 more police students have been admitted in the period 2006–09 than in the period 2002–2005, when the Right was in government. In addition, as mentioned in the record record, comes next year. We're doing this to follow up the crew plan, so we get more police officers out. In addition, the package of measures presented in January established 460 new civilian posts in the police force. That's what we're doing this year, so we can free police officers to do police work. We believe that we can release more than 280 policemen for this. Then I will also refer to the agreement that was concluded this summer. It helped to increase the working hours of many police officers by one hour. It involves an increase in resources, as this district has just noticed, which means that we can get active services around the clock. This means that until next year, the police budget will increase by a total of DKK 1.3 billion – the biggest promise ever made by the police. So we have to say to the Norwegian police that there is light at the end of the tunnel.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1210	I thank you for a thorough answer, which has some shortcomings anyway. The right starting point is that the police have to be present all over the country, including in District Norway. It is not only in this police district that bad search is reported, and that people end up in the police positions. Other state institutions, such as health enterprises, have quite good measures to stimulate, for example: doctors to actually take jobs in a district hospital. You don't have the same opportunities in the police. And that's what was at the heart of my question to the Minister of Justice: are you willing to actually add some big carrots, and not just buttons and gloss pictures, in a post to recruit police officers to District Norway on a general basis? That being said, I am fully aware that police preparedness throughout the district has been present. The problem has been, as the people of Saudi and Suldal have pointed out, that there has been no standby at night in Saudi and Suldal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1219	I believe that the most important thing we can do to get more applicants for police posts across the whole country is to train police officers. The more police people we get, the easier it is to recruit in the districts as well. Then, of course, the districts have the opportunity to come up with incentives, which I've been up to in the answer, and which makes them feel that now we have a situation where it's much easier – and it'll be easier to do it in the future – to recruit than in the situation we experienced two to three years after the very low admissions that you had when the Right was in government. I have to say that I'm impressed by the high-rightness of this field, but not fully impressed by a recording at the police high school of 240 students in 2002, so you're now training three times more police officers. It is clear that it has contributed to the fact that it has been difficult to recruit police in recent years. I think that'll improve.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1233	It does not impress me that the Council of State remembers back to 2002. What's important is what's going on in 2010, 2011 and 2012. My supplementary question to the Council of State is: Do I see the Council of State right when he says that from November 16 – i.e. two days ago – there are actually present night guards who are awake, in Sauda and Suldal?Or does the Council of State think that the readiness provided by the police officer was actually close, defined as around Haugesund, Karmøy or Tysvær – at least an hour's drive from Sauda and Suldal? I need an explanation for that. Besides, since we're on the verge, the Right has a significant increase in the police force, at 158 million. kr, which is a significantly greater increase than the Minister of Justice has been able to achieve through his government. 140 million. of which it has been set aside for operation, which provides room for increased staffing in this police district too, preferably in small communities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1244	I refer you to my answer regarding the district that the representative Kambe is asking about. I believe that it promises good for the districts on the question of preparedness. But I have to respectfully say that when it comes to increasing police budgets, we have never been close to such an increase as the Government has presented in recent years, not forgetting the last budget we have submitted, at NOK 1.3 billion. It's over 13 pst. growth. The budget has never been so large, even when the Right was in government. So I don't think it's anything to be ashamed of. With regard to the need we have to point to 2002 and 2003, it is, first of all, linked to the fact that it had Right-wing Responsibility, second, that it is consistent with 2004, 2005, 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2009. That's crucial. When one then picked up few high school police students, we get to take off now, when we're going to place police officers, whether they're in Saudi or elsewhere. The government has done something about this, and I am glad that the Right also supports the high recordings proposed by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1256	From the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘The supply situation of electricity in Central Norway has been strained in recent years, including: has led to the region being its own electricity price range. Rauma Energi has plans for upgrading Verma power plants in More and Romesdal that can increase the production of renewable energy in the region. Moving the input of the power station to Storhaugen could increase annual power generation from 70 to 150 GWh. Will the Council of State contribute to the realisation of Rauma Energia's plans for the upgrading of Verma power plants?»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1264	This question falls away.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1270	From the representative Henning Skumsvoll to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘Central Red-Green Politicians have expressed themselves very critical of Statoil. Socialist Left Party Inga Marte Thorkildsen stated on NRK News 18 that «Statoil is running a massive lobby campaign based on very dubious figures and facts, in order to push oil drilling in some of our most vulnerable and valuable natural areas [[...]] Do these statements reflect the political line of the Government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1278	This question lapses, as the questioner is ill.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1284	This question, from the representative of Terje Halleland to the Minister for Oil and Energy, will be answered by the Minister for Finance who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1287	I will ask the Minister for Finance the following questions: ‘Competitive framework conditions are important for Norwegian enterprises. The Progress Party believes that global environmental challenges need to be avoided at spe­cific fees/costs. The government, on the other hand, has boasted that they have introduced the world's most severe climate regime. However, in the election campaign Norsk Hydro expressed concern about the CO2 costs arising from climate policy. The Workers' Party's Tore Nordtun then claimed that the Government was working with schemes to reduce the burden on special Norwegian/European CO2 costs. Where does this work stand?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1302	The government has offensive climate policies and ambitious goals. These objectives are part of the Storting climate settlement and are supported by all parties except the Advance Party. Climate is a global problem, and climate damage is independent of where emissions occur. The government is therefore actively engaged in a global agreement covering all countries and sectors. A broad agreement will help to bring competing enterprises against the same costs of CO2 emissions. Norway was one of the first countries to introduce a tax on CO2 emissions. Large parts of Norwegian emissions were subject to quota obligations when Norway became part of the EU ETS from 2008. The sectors covered by the allowance system are largely similar to those in the EU. Land-based industry in Norway, like similar sectors in the EU, has been allocated free quotas. The compulsory land-based industry is exempt from the CO2 tax. On 11 September this year, the Ministry of the Environment concluded an agreement with Norwegian Industry on voluntary reductions in emissions from the Norwegian process industry, which are neither subject to allowances nor pay CO2 tax. The EU ETS will be expanded from 2013 so that large parts of the process industry are also covered by the allowance system. All establishments that are part of the EU ETS will therefore initially face the same price of CO2 allowances. In its policy platform, the government has announced that emissions from the power-intensive industry will be regulated within the EU quota system. Overall, I believe this demonstrates that today’s Norwegian climate change instruments do not differ significantly from those used in other European countries that pursue an active climate policy. I also refer to Chapter 7 of the National Budget 2010, where the Government has provided a more comprehensive presentation of the work on sustainable development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1334	I thank you for your answer. I do not know if it was entirely the answer the industry saw separately when the representative Nordtun in the election campaign stated that it was necessary to reduce Norwegian special schemes that burdened Norwegian companies more than competing companies. So, unlike companies in other European countries, Norwegian companies have to pay for new emissions. I thought the government's goal was to ensure the framework conditions that are adapted to our competitors, so that it is the best and most environmentally friendly companies that survive, and not those who choose to establish themselves ashore with less stringent or no environmental legislation. Does the Government believe that enterprises will nevertheless establish themselves in Norway — when the framework conditions are worse than in our neighbouring country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1345	I refer to the answer I just gave, where a key point was to look at what is now happening in the EU. I also refer to what is in the Government's political platform, for example. ‘to regulate emissions from the power-intensive industry within the EU ETS’. But there is a balance between, on the one hand, pursuing an active and forward-looking climate policy and, on the other hand, taking into account the competitiveness of its own industry. This is also one of the key issues in the EU, because one sees that there may be a certain possibility of so-called carbon leakage, i.e. that production is moved to countries where conditions are more liberal in terms of CO2 emissions. This does well underline the need for a comprehensive and binding climate agreement in Copenhagen, an agreement where one also takes such considerations into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1355	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. Once again, Norwegian companies have to pay for new emissions, as opposed to companies elsewhere in Europe. If emissions are to be reduced in total, the number of allowances has to be limited. If the environment is behind the allocation of climate allowances, why will the government not remove the allowances that have not been sold to new businesses instead of selling them back to the European trading system?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1362	I refer briefly and well to the answer I have already given. I think there will be plenty of opportunity to come back to a discussion on this – both before and after the Copenhagen climate summit – because this is an important matter, which we will probably not be finished in the Question Time today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1372	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘It was 6 years since the last notification of the petroleum activity, where the Stortinge had the opportunity to discuss the whole of Norwegian petroleum policy. No such notification was submitted in 2005-2009. In Soria Moria II it is announced that the Government will review the petroleum policy in its own staging message. When can the Storting expect a notification of petroleum activity to be submitted?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1381	Petroleum activities are important to ensure the country’s income base and, in particular, employment in this country. Activities shall take place within the framework set by us for sustainable development. Norway will contribute to Europe’s energy security in the future. The global framework for petroleum activities is changing, including: as a result of changes in international energy markets and in energy and environmental policies around the world. The challenges and opportunities on the Norwegian base are also changing. Such developments could result in the need for adjustments in the petroleum policy. The government will review the petroleum policy in its own wholesale message, as the representative Meling mentioned. I would like to add to a broad and comprehensive process in connection with the work on the message. My best estimate per year. Today, a sound and reasonable framework for such work should be around one year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1390	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I guess the Council of State is well aware that today the industry is experiencing a very demanding situation, where projects are put on hold or scrapped, and where the oil supply industry has to permit or cancel employees. The right is extremely concerned that we are able to maintain what may be our main competitive advantage, namely competence. The industry calls for the long-term nature of a complete discussion that a petroleum message gives us. Does the Council of State, in the current situation, consider that it is satisfactory to be able to submit a notification only in 2010 — in a year’s time — and may it be relevant to immediate action?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1399	The most important thing that a government can do, and as I have done, is to take measures in the relatively short term – and that is to run the numbered concession rounds. I have great faith that a petroleum message will make an important contribution to the long-term oil and gas policy in Norway, but the situation that the representative Meling describes – which I fully agree with – is demanding for parts of the industry. It's a selective crisis we're looking outside. Part of the industry has a lot of work to do, but in particular the traditional yard industry is struggling very hard. It's worrying. With regard to the crisis described, it is to start new development projects and ensure that the industry has work, even in a few years' time, which is the answer. There I have delivered, not least through the 21st concession round, which I started very recently.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1406	I thank you again for the answer. In the round to which the Council of State refers, it's probably right to say that there is no promising new search space. Petroleum industry accounts for as much as one third of national income, and Norway relies on these revenues. With the expansionary budgets provided by the Government, we are extra dependent on future revenues from the petroleum sector. The long-term availability of predictable and well-known framework conditions is crucial for investment. Many will suspect the red-green batches too much disagreement internally, and that is what makes them spend so much time coming up with a new petroleum message. Does the Council have an understanding of the uncertainty created in the food cluster by the fact that it has taken so long before we get a petroleum message put on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1415	I have the greatest understanding of the industry's desire for predictability and the possibility of planning in the long term – I have my own business – that you see what lies ahead in the loop. I totally agree with that. With regard to the follow-up of the representative, Mr Meling, to the fact that the policy we have pursued has not contributed to that, I do not agree. I believe we have clearly presented the government's policy through the management plan that we delivered in ours, as regards both the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea. In addition, when we come up with numbered rounds and TFO allocations, it represents the framework for oil and gas activities in Norway, and we also see that the activity level of Norwegian sockets in historical comparison is high.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1425	From the representative of Mr Träldal to the Minister for Agriculture and Food: ‘On Monday 9 November 2009, the nation has a notice that the environmental threat of increasing nitrogen and phosphorus emissions can be significantly reduced if agriculture uses human urine as fertilisers in the future. Each adult produces 400–500 litres of urine per adult. years. There's enough fertilizer to produce 200 kilos of wheat, which in turn gives 350 bread. Thomas Cottis, Senior Lecturer at the Hedmark High School, states: ‘The Norwegian people’s Urin is enough to fertilise the entire Norwegian grain area every year.’ What does the Council of State think of this proposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1433	This issue is postponed, as the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1439	This question, from Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, will be answered by the Minister for Oil and Energy on behalf of the Minister for Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1442	I want to ask the Minister of Agriculture and Food the following questions, but as I understand it will be answered that the Minister of Oil and Energy. «Many agricultural properties remain empty both in Hedmark and elsewhere in the country due to price regulation, i.e. a maximum price for properties set on the basis of the possible return of the farm. As a result, some of the properties that would have been sold will not be sold, as the sum of the sales will be too low. Will the Council of State help us to get an embellishment of this rule so that it disappears?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1451	I think the representative is well-known that the matter has been discussed quite many times in this room during the previous growing-up period. What emerged there was that this government is concerned about those who want to enter agriculture and that price controls are justified on that basis. It's a choice you make, whether you're most concerned with the ones that are going in, or the ones that are going out. This shall contribute to ensuring the recruitment of active economic operators and facilitate ownership that provides a basis for long-term good resource management. It shall also facilitate income opportunities and social conditions, which create stable full-time and part-time agricultural jobs. To achieve those objectives, the price level should reflect the value of the property on its operating basis and the value of the property as a residence, while not requiring an unreasonable level of equity. This approach is well anchored in this room, as I mentioned, at the latest when dealing with the changes in our agricultural legislation. In that respect, a majority of the Economic and Social Committee, all except the representatives of the Party of Progress and the Right, stated that ‘it is important to maintain that the value for use for agricultural purposes and the level of costs of agricultural buildings are the basis for pricing’. Of course, in all practical policies it is necessary to look at the need for a balance between different societal objectives as a basis. It's e.g. it is also desirable to use built-up agricultural properties as a dwelling. It is therefore important, in particular for properties with weak agricultural resources and with some degree of housing quality, that the rules to which I refer here do not unduly prevent agricultural property from coming for sale, whether the purchaser is to use it for business or housing purposes. In Ot.prp. No 44 for 2008-2009, it was proposed to increase the housing value in the context of the price evaluation. The aim of the proposal is to increase the rate of turnover of agricultural property and to reduce the distance between market value and concession price, so as to reduce the pressure on price regulation. The proposal was supported by the majority in Stortinget. The Minister for Agriculture and Food has also started work on the implementation of this proposal. These changes may allow fewer agricultural properties to become vacant, both in Hedmark and elsewhere in the country, but there is reason to take a firm approach to the possible consequences of the changes. Experience has shown that it is not only the price that counts when someone is considering selling an agricultural property. Connection to the property weighs e.g. too many.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1466	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It is true that this has been discussed before. Now it's a new big deal, a new minister and I'm trying again, because this is an important question. It is important in the districts, because there are some empty buildings on farm, they are not used. Those who owned them, built them, or inherited them, do not want to give them away more or less because the selling price is too low. Instead, they keep the property, and sometimes it results in the buildings becoming standing empty, maintenance is not carried out and the land is rented out. It doesn't create any growth. I'm going to re-examine this question because it's so important. It may be okay and good that you're busy with those who want to get into agriculture, but there's also someone who wants out, but they won't give up their life's work. If you're going to stop or reduce a fumigation, you're going to have to look at price.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1473	I fully agree that focusing on the presence of active drivers on farms out in District Norway is a priority objective. Then I believe that the great difference between political parties in the Great Britain is in the will to facilitate nutrition. As you can see, it is a little special that the representative of the Progress Party is so concerned about this issue when one sees what is happening in these days in the Grand Duchy in terms of the willingness to actually support under active farming in the countryside. One may be very concerned about the price of selling a property with a certain dwelling value, but if a person is really going to make sure that a lot of farming becomes empty, it is about following the recommendation of the Progress Party by not wanting to spend money on district policy and agricultural policy, and thus making it uninteresting or impossible to take over and purchase farm use in District Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1478	I thank you for the comments that I do not agree with. I believe that the Progress Party has the best policy in terms of rural policy as well as agriculture. The question here concerns a buyer and a seller who agreed on a price. So this goes to political treatment, and the majority of politicians say that the price is too high, it's not going to be a sale. There's a buyer at a farm, there's a seller, and they agree on the price, but it's the political system, the majority of the politicians in each municipality, possibly state, who say no because the price is too high. It is not about the price being too high for the individual buyer. When you want to buy an agricultural property, have a loan and have a certain equity and want to bet on it either as an individual or as a family, I think it's – excuse the expression – a little silly that you can't have an embellishment in this regard, just to let go of fumigation and get in new forces.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1487	It is such that if you are going to bring in the new forces, you must have a policy that allows you to enter. If one gets a free pricing where the housing value, the location of property is what is applicable, a look at a large number of farms in Norway will see that it is something other than the value in use that is reflected in the sum of sales. It will just contribute to what is not to be done by the representative of Bredvold, that one does not get young people into the agricultural industry. Very many agricultural properties will have an alternative value in the market, which is far beyond the yield of agricultural production. This would make it impossible for young, engaged people who want to enter the industry to buy these farms, because it is simply not possible to remunerate loans and equity in traditional agricultural operations, and only those who have capital to assess the property according to their housing value have the opportunity to enter and purchase the property. It will be a drastic proposal to exclude young, engaged future farmers from the agricultural market.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1499	This question, from Svein Flätten to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Finance, who is directly responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1502	I must say it is gratifying that the Minister of Finance himself will respond to the views that the new Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has had on the wealth tax in the past and probably now has – I look forward to that with joy and excitement. The question was: ‘The Council of State has, on several occasions, made a profit-making settlement with that part of the fiscal policy which taxes the operating resources of an enterprise through the taxes on wealth. Not least in fisheries and farming, with many small actors, increased taxation of operating resources, as we have seen in recent years, increases job insecurity. Can we assume that the Council of State will continue to assert its well-founded view of this tax even within the government of which she is a member?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1511	The government is committed to pursuing a policy that contributes to increased value creation. The political platform of the Government provides the basis for a policy of community, value creation and justice. We will work for a tax system that provides stable income to the community, contributes to fair distribution, a better environment, promotes employment and value creation across the country and improves the way the economy works. The government has said that during this ageing period we will continue the overall tax and tax level as today. In addition, we have said that within this level there is room to create a better distribution. The government has shown during the previous major period that it is possible to pursue a fairer tax policy within a stable tax and tax level, while ensuring predictability which makes it attractive to invest and operate in Norway. In order to ensure efficient resource use, it is essential that different industries and enterprises face as much equal tax conditions as possible. This also applies to taxes on wealth. The government, through the changes in property taxes, has ensured better consistency between the tax and the tax capacity of people, regardless of how the wealth is put together. For single taxpayers, the discount has tripled, with more than five-fold for married couples. In the 2010 budget, the Government proposes a further increase of the deduction to DKK 700000 for single taxpayers and to SEK 1.4 million. kr for married couples. This will also benefit business and, of course, individuals who are owners of business. Their shares might be subject to property taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1522	I thank you for your answer. I interpret it so that the Council of State I asked the question to will not continue to assert its view of the property tax, but it is on what is the official view of the Government. Then I think it is positive that the Council of State in its answer refers to this as the opposition and the Government disagree. We believe – at least from the Right – that the wealth tax is unfortunate for the companies. The changes that have been made have gone more to the bottom-up and have meant relatively little to small and medium-sized enterprises. What is positive is that the Council of State no longer mentions this as ‘tax relief to the richest’. Can he say anything about that is a concept that you might want to leave more in the debate?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1529	Firstly, I can assure the representative Fleet that in the government room it is high below the ceiling. There are many opinions and different opinions, but the view that comes out in the form of government budgets, propositions and messages to the Storting is the government's view. But the debate can be both lively and interesting. With regard to the last thing the representative had in mind, I am concerned that a person should tax according to his ability and receive as needed, which in a way is the golden principle of taxation. That means that those who have large assets will be subject to a slightly greater tax on wealth than those who have small assets. It is the government's line through what we have done in recent years in the context of the bottom line, that people with small and moderate assets should either drop property taxes or get a little strain on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1536	I see that we will not get any further with this today. That is not what we did in the previous period with the previous Minister of Finance. For example, in the autumn of 2009, during difficult times for business, owners pay a property tax based on values that are actually as far back as more than a year and a half, because the cut-off date for the property tax is so far behind, that is, on the historical peak we had in Norwegian business and in the economic cycle. There is a considerable burden on many companies that are now in a difficult situation: the workshop industry, the supplier industry, etc. Does not the Minister of Finance think that there is a cross of thought that might push him into slightly different thoughts over the years that lie ahead of him?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1545	One should never forge the opinions you might have in a while – that is the opposite that is often problematic for politicians; one is confronted with his previous statements. But when said, it is that in the context of the financial crisis the Government introduced significant measures to build up under the activity of the economy, and included in that package there were also measures to ease the burden on businesses. Otherwise, it's probably true that the representative fleet says that we're going back to this in different contexts, and we're getting a new opportunity in a week's time – in the financial debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1552	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-18.ana.ud553e1565	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
