ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e51	The representative of Gunn Olsen, who has been licensed, has once again taken his seat. They called for alternates, for Hordaland County Knut Arild Hareide and from Rogaland County Sofus Vikeså Kjeka, have taken their seats.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e76	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given within the allocated speaking time following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e85	In the position we are debating today, the Committee has examined a proposal from four representatives of the Progress Party. The proposal calls for strengthening the employer’s right of governance in terms of uniform and clothing and preventing the creation of special rights for specific groups. The majority in the Committee, that is to say, all parties other than the Progress Party, do not accept the proposal for a representative, nor do they support any of the concrete proposals that are being promoted. Instead, the majority are united on a note that I believe says something important about the necessary balance in integration policy: the goal must be to find the good solutions that balance freedom and responsibility, rights and obligations, and that enable us to live well together regardless of ethnic origin and religious identity. The preservation of minority cultures and their ethnic and religious identity must be balanced with clear requirements for integration and participation, including requirements for knowledge of Norwegian languages and knowledge of Norwegian society. The majority of the Committee also stresses that the measures introduced must be in line with Norway’s international commitments and Norwegian law. For my part, I believe that we would risk getting to grips with both sides – both Norwegian law and our international obligations – if we had followed up the three concrete proposals the Progress Party is promoting in Document No. 8:44. In both this and other proposals, the Progress Party gives the impression that there are simple solutions to what are really complex issues. It is not that we can put in place two or three measures and then expect to have solved the problems. The challenges associated with multicultural Norway are many, nuanced and changing over time. That must also be taken into account in the debate. The representative proposal was promoted when the hijab debate broke down at its worst, and would have seemed perhaps more relevant if the government had fallen to a different conclusion than it did. The Central Party is very pleased with the Government's conclusion in that case, which means that the police's uniform regulations are not amended to allow the use of religious symbols in connection with the uniform. The police are in a special position and must also be treated as a special case. Police are just an example of the fact that in some demarcated areas there will be legitimate reasons for restricting the use of symbols by employees. Therefore, the fact that we do not support the overall proposal of the Progress Party today does not in any way mean that we are giving positive signals for the use of hijab in the police, as the Progress Party wants to give the impression. Police have a very special role in society and must be as neutral as possible. One of the proposals of the representatives of the Progress Party is that ‘the Government rejects any specific requirement of specific immigrant groups for society to adapt to their wishes or needs.’ I have to say that I support this proposal. The fact that individuals and special groups, large or small, promote different demands to the authorities is, in my view, a sign of health and something that characterizes and belongs to a democratic society. However, the success of the requirements is not obvious. In some cases, Norwegian law or international conventions will oblige us to grant rights. If there is no legal obligation to comply, the authorities may consider it desirable to do so anyway. Often, for example: specific schemes aimed at individual groups are a prerequisite for achieving what we all want in integration policy: better Norwegian knowledge, more participation in working life, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e100	Let me first reassure the rapporteur on the matter, Mr Moe, that these are not two-three proposals to solve the integration problem in Norway. Of course that's not the case. However, these are three important proposals, parts of a larger and more comprehensive policy that can turn a blind eye, which today does not go in the right direction in terms of integration, in order to establish an integration policy that actually works. These are three proposals that were properly promoted at the time when the hijab debate broke down in Norwegian media. It's an attempt to put in place some principle rules for it to carry religious or political symbols in situations where state employees wear uniform or otherwise exercise power and authority, and to have clear driving rules in relation to it. The problem is that the sitting government has winged something absolutely incredible in the hijab cause. So people have gone from being against hijab in the police to being too Hanab in the police — and then again being against hijab in the police. And there's still doubt whether this is a position to which all the members of the Government subscribe. Nor is there any doubt that there has been a great deal of disagreement within the respective groups of the government parties. The problem is that this government is not willing to draw up clear lines of division between accepting these kinds of political or religious symbols, and when not to do so – you don't take a principle position. This is what the Progress Party wants to do – we want to put in place some principles based on very fundamental values on which this society is based – that we should not confuse personal religious or political attitudes with the important role of the state in terms of police, courts, defence, customs, etc. The fact that this debate was at all given is an example that the Government does not have this principle attitude, that the Government does not draw up the principal lines. We also want our proposals to raise the issue of strengthening the employer's right to control clothing, uniform. It is a problem today that minority groups have difficulty entering the labour market. In the view of the Progress Party, it is primarily due to the naive and crafty policy pursued by this government, by giving the law the right to demand, for example: to carry hijab at the workplace. This means that employers who are not racists at all, but who do not want to conflict, are in difficult situations when they are to hire new people in their organisation. This would have been a solution to a lot of that problem. The fact that we are also proposing to establish some principles with regard to the specific requirements of immigrant groups is precisely in recognising that integration is primarily about the need for individuals who voluntarily move to Norway to adapt to the new country in which they have chosen to live, and not as I believe that the current government and the majority in this room believe that society should adapt very much to the individual's wishes. Nor is it the case that the rapporteur tries to give the impression that these proposals are contrary to international obligations – even though there are some kind of accusations that we are used to hearing. And to the extent that it is contrary to Norwegian law, it is this hall's task to take decisions on what should be Norwegian law. So there's no kind of problem at all. It is time to draw up clear boundaries in terms of integration, and that individual immigrants adapt to Norwegian society – not as we unfortunately see too much of today, that Norwegian society adapts to immigrants. I would like to raise the proposal of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e121	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e124	I am not going to go further into the proposals or into a discussion on integration policy – there is one more issue that is largely related to that issue. I just want to clarify, for the sake of order, since, after the committee gave its opinion on this matter, doubts have been raised in the media about what the majority believes about the use of religious symbols related to police uniforms and the clothing of judges, that the Right clearly believes that neither the police nor the judges' clothing should be marked by the kind of religious symbols that hijab will imply. That's what makes sense when we support the majority position. I also refer to the letter from the Council of State, which also shows this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e129	It is our duty to take all the suggestions seriously, regardless of how little thought they are and what reflections are behind. These proposals fall under the category of political opportunism. The American economist John Galbraith wrote for approx. 15 years ago a book entitled 'The satisfied majority'. These proposals are the contented majority's attack on minority cultures. In order to give a sense of honesty – even the Progress Party has a minimum degree of honesty – the employer’s right of governance towards employees in general is discussed. It's when you're supposed to generalize it hopefully becomes obvious to the majority that this can't be serious. Especially bad things happen when it is promoted by a party that calls itself liberalist, that is, a party that is fundamentally concerned with the individual's freedom and rights. This party asks the Government to ensure that employers are given the right to impose on employees certain clothing. That is, in fact, what the proposal says. Even in SV, which has a different attitude from the Progress Party to what the community can demand and expect from each one of us, this is, to put it bluntly, deaf. The proposal also shows that the Progress Party has a rather light view of the employer’s right to governance. I assume that the employee organisations take note of the Progress Party's view of the employer's right of governance. The Ministry has carried out a thorough review of the legal aspects of these proposals. The conclusion is reasonably clear that the impact of the proposals may be contrary to international obligations. The real objectives of the proposals are set out in proposals Nos. 2 and No 3rd@item: inlistbox What you're after is minority groupings. It is unpleasant to serve such an obvious contempt for the attitudes and beliefs of others – that our society and our jobs should not facilitate the best possible operation. What's wrong with the fact that where it's practical, there's going to be beans for different beliefs and different ways of life? Here on the Biggest we have set up a quiet room that primarily meets the need of the Christian majority. I assume that the Progress Party will have removed such unreasonable demands or wishes from us that really appreciate such a room. Or should such specific requirements from groupings belonging to the majority not be defined as special requirements? When the committees are out and traveling — and that happens often — we often get questions about whether there are people who need special food, such as a vegetarian diet. No one has considered it a special requirement that an attempt to facilitate the fulfilment of such wishes. But at the moment that the kind of desire comes from the minorities, there will be special demands to be met. This is not far from racist attitudes. The document also talks about value neutrality. A public establishment shall never be value neutral. There must be no doubt that the police will never appear to be neutral in value. They shall appear as defenders of the good and important principles on which our society is founded: democracy, freedom of expression and the individual's freedom and rights. The fact that the police wear uniform to be visible in the landscape is okay enough. If anyone wants to supplement this uniform with a symbol -- it's a cultural symbol, a religious symbol -- I can't see it being problematic or weakening the dignity and strength of the uniform. I accept and realize that it is not appropriate to allow hijab along with the police uniform, but initially I find it difficult to see that this should be problematic, and that this should have something to do with values and value neutrality or whatever it might be. In any case, we do not want the police to appear to be neutral in value.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e150	The President would point out that the characteristic 'deaf' is not parliamentary. And there's rarely any hesitation in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e153	When the hijab debate fell at worst, representatives from the Progress Party in a known style were quick to deliver a Document No. Eight proposals that draw it all well. The Christian People's Party believes that religious symbols and expressions have a natural place in public space, and believes that it is important that all should be able to express their faith and their religion without fear of reprisals or discrimination. When the debate on hijab in the police took place, the Christian People's Party concluded that the police's uniform rules should be maintained as they are today. The reason is that we consider the police profession to be a special service with special requirements for neutrality and uniformity. It is a good piece from our position in this matter to be able to support the proposal of the Progress Party in Document No. 8:44 on the employer's right of management in respect of clothing. What the Progress Party wants is, in fact, a general ban on the use of hijab. This was also expressed at the police national meeting, in the form of decisions banning the headgear in school and rejecting children who still used it. I believe that the Council of State in its letter to the Committee explains why the proposals of the Progress Party should not be accepted. This message is attached to the setting. The Christian People’s Party agrees with the Council’s assessment that the proposal to ‘enhance the employer’s right to govern uniform and clothing, so that the employer is free to contract the personal use of religious or political symbols in the work situation, based on his or her own assessments of what is compatible with the interests of the enterprise’, is too general and too far-reaching. The proposal seeks to establish clear rules so that personal, religious or political symbols, possibly other value symbols, cannot be used in contexts where national employees wear uniform. There may be legitimate reasons to restrict the employee’s access to the use of symbols. The question of hijab in the police is an example of that. However, national employees exercise powers in many different areas — different positions with different tasks and functions. The Christian People's Party clearly believes that there is no need for such a ban. The last proposal of the Progress Party is to ‘refuse any specific requirement of specific groups to adapt society to their wishes or needs’. We live in a democratic society where it is a democratic right to be allowed, through democratic instruments, to promote any requirement you may wish. The Christian People's Party does not want to restrict this right for anyone, even if demands had to be made that go beyond our own policy. Some demands will win, while others will be rejected. That's the way it has to be in a democracy. This consideration can be taken into account, while calling for respect for common values. Recent derailments in the public debate on integration and Islamisation show that there is a great need for a wide-ranging debate on what common values we want to shape social development. It is important to avoid developing groups that do not know that they have anything in common with the rest of society. There has to be something in common that binds us together. A core of these values is the broad Christian and humanistic heritage on which Norwegian society is based, which is a central basis for human rights. Norway is clear in the UN and in other international contexts that all countries must respect human rights. We must also be in favour of the citizens. Being Norwegian implies rights. It also implies obligations. Integration is not about embracing political positions or traditions that violate human rights. It's about recognising the value of the individual – which is just as infinitely large, no matter where you come from, or what you're called. The principle of equivalency is a central common value for Norwegian society. It implies that environments which have practiced or approved sexual mutilation and forced marriage must take a clear distance from such women’s oppressive traditions. But we must never allow these challenges to become a pretext for stigmatizing an entire group.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e174	In this case, the employer has used his right to manage – I am a substitute for the day. I would like to begin by pointing out that the State Council, Dag Terje Andersen, in its written reply to the Committee on 29 April 2009, has explained the legal barriers to the right of the employer to govern both in our national legislation and in Norway's international obligations. I would not recommend unilaterally strengthening the right of the employer to govern the personal use of religious or political symbols by those added in the work situation, nor would I recommend imposing a general ban on the use of such symbols by national employees in the context of uniformity and/or exercise of powers. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee shares the opinions expressed in the written reply and that, in its recommendation of 26 May 2009, the Committee does not endorse the draft representative. I agree with the majority of the Committee that there is a great deal of transparency and ceiling in debates about the design and development of our society, especially in terms of the integration and inclusion of people with a minority background. The government is working for everyone to have the same obligations, rights and opportunities, regardless of, inter alia: background, sex, religion, sexual orientation or functionality. I believe that it belongs in a democratic society that different people or groups can raise different demands to the authorities. Requirements may be promoted through policy channels, press groups, organisations or private individuals. You can imagine a lot of different demands from different people or groups. Some requirements will win, while other requirements will be rejected. In some cases, you will be obliged by law or international obligations to grant rights. In other cases, there will be no obligation to meet a requirement, but it will nevertheless be desirable from a political assessment. Compliance with this requirement will, for example: could lead to a better inclusion of some groups or individuals in working and social life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e185	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e189	Although the representative from SV has a little difficulty in understanding this, it is such that one tries to distinguish between what is personal value and what is personal standing, and what are the values of the state, the law and the law of the state. There is also much of the reason for not accepting hijab in the police. My problem in this regard is that while the government – and I am pleased about it – has landed at the point of not allowing hijab in the police, it has nevertheless been opening for a while for hijab in e.g. Defense and Customs. What I'm asking for is a principle attitude here: Where's the boundary between hijab in the police, and hijab in the Defense and the Tollvessen? And: what is the fundamental assessment of the Government here – how do you draw the boundaries?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e196	What is the Government’s position on this issue is that there is a question that needs to be considered on a case-by-case basis. Uniform is a broad concept. This council is now normally responsible for a number of people who go daily in a kind of uniform in Norwegian hospitals. For me, at least it's completely unproblematic if nurses use hijab, while I share the Government's position, that it's wrong to use hijab in connection with a police uniform. It just illustrates, in my opinion, that taking a general position on this issue is going to be wrong, you have to go in and assess each case and each situation. You have e.g. have had nuances related to the Defence, because there is talk of exercising a protective duty, while being a police force in Norway is not an obligation. This type of assessment needs to be considered in an overall way, and it is necessary to conclude on a case-by-case basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e206	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e211	There is a need, and it is my wish, for both men and women with a minority background in our society to be participants in society, to contribute to society. I want them to seek education, seek participation in society at all levels. As I said, both to contribute, but not least to seek responsibility. They're part of society, and then they have to be on every level. They have a responsibility on behalf of the groups they belong to, and they have a responsibility on behalf of the big society of which they are part. I want to see people with a minority background – men and women – as teachers, as policemen, as rapporteurs, as judges, as state councillors. I want to see them everywhere in this society, to seek responsibility, but also to contribute to this society. You have to look at what prevents them from getting into society and being participants, and what helps them become part of it. I see they're doing a good job. I've seen great women in this room, standing on this pulpit, who have done a job for society as well as for the groups they belong to. I've seen them, for example. in Oslo City Board and many other places. I've seen them in court, and they're doing a very good job. I think the Progress Party is constructing a problem that is not there. In any case, they overdramatize and hoard something that is easy to find solution to. It is well possible that it is useful for the Progress Party, it is well possible that it will give them a stir, it is well possible that it will give them some votes. But also the Progress Party has a responsibility on behalf of the entire community. We have to create a new society, we have to find solutions together, and we have to bring the groups together and form the new nation, instead of separating them. I am very pleased that a total accumulation is taking a distance from the Progress Party in this debate today. But I wish that more people had taken a clearer distance from the Progress Party's line of rushing this up, of reconstructing this, and of using it in the public debate. My challenge is primarily to the Right. They have to be clearer – they have to decide where to stand in this debate, because they are eating it all the time. I am pleased that in this debate they have highlighted themselves on the right side of the line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e220	Just a little comment on Amundsen's statement that I didn't know the difference between society's values and personal values – whatever it might be. I tried to explain that the police are not value neutral. Police shall be defenders of the fundamentals of this society, namely democracy, freedom of expression and the freedom and rights of the individual. Obviously, I know that not everyone in this society shares this basic view, but those peoples are divided into all walks of life and all communities – I feel reasonably safe about that. It has little to do with a wearer's hijab or other religious or cultural symbols. The fact that a person carries hijab doesn't mean that one initially doesn't share the fundamental values of society and democracy. That's not what we're talking about. That was the argument and the way I tried to reflect, that if someone wants to combine a religious or cultural symbol – I don't always know what hijab is – with a uniform, and this works for the individual, I have difficulty understanding that it should be problematic for someone at all. All this will ensure is that we will be able to recruit people from some groupings from which it might otherwise be difficult to recruit. This has nothing to do with values, and differences between private values and the values of society. If we were to start picking people out by opinions when we were going to recruit the police and other things, we would probably get a big job. It might turn out that some of the people who are there today – and do not carry hijab – do not share these basic values. This boils down to the simple fact that this concerns the majority’s demands and the majority’s demands on minorities. The majority don't like, for different reasons, that someone wears hijab, and then one says that this shouldn't be allowed within the limits where the majority controls and controls.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e231	The representative Reikvam actually illustrates very well himself how his argument doesn't work out completely. I fully agree with Mr Reikvam that the police as such, through their uniform, through law and law, express the fundamental values of democracy. I fully agree with the representative, Mr Reikvam, and I believe that everyone here agrees. The problem arises when, for example, at the top of the symbols you wear as a police officer or as a woman, there is a problem. a hijab, which too many people perceive to be an Islamic symbol – that is, a symbol that does not at all express the values that the police are to express. For many, it is perceived as undemocratic, as a repressive symbol, and not in line with the values just conveyed by the police through their uniform and through their representation of law and justice. The problem here, and we get this really well illustrated in this debate, is that it is not quite clear where the Government draws these limits when it comes to allowing hijab or other political or religious symbols – when you think it's okay. The issue turns out to be quite clear when both the representative of Chaudhry and the representative of SV Reikvam are actually up here and argue for hijab in the police, while luckily the Council of State said clearly and clearly that the Government is against it. Most clearly, there is a fundamental disagreement about the concept of integration. The representative, Chaudhry, is talking about creating a new society, changing Norwegian society – and when you talk about a new society, I almost see it as a fundamental change to adapt it to the immigrant population. Then you're on wild roads. That's exactly what the Progress Party is warning against, that's the opposite of integration, that you give room to all the special rights and requirements that are faced by some strong environments in the immigrant population, and in that process fundamentally changes the society that I think most people in this room are very pleased with – which, of course, has its problems like everyone else, but which basically takes care of the important, essential values that we all share. At least the Progress Party does not want a new society as a solution to integration policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e240	The Progress Party points out that they are in principle in order to strengthen the right of management of the employer. I believe that the Advancement Party is gnawing under foreign fear and wants the working life to be free of personal expression through ethnicity and religion, so that we do not have to deal with diversity and multi-ethnicity. During my work as rapporteur-in-chief, I have studied a little around the workplace. My impression is that the proposal of the Progress Party is a somewhat up-to-date issue. Of course, there are some challenges to our multicultural working life, but the impression, which I have also received through the NHO Labour Law Department, is that workplaces and businesses themselves find appropriate legislation within existing laws, and find good solutions with their employees. The Progress Party has every right to promote its proposals and specific requirements, demands it would not have been possible to promote if the proposals of the Progress Party had been adopted here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e249	Rolf Rikham has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short remark, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e252	Today, Norway is a new society compared to society 50 or 100 years ago — or whatever. And Norway in 2020, 2030 or 2040 will be a new society compared to today, new in that it is different. There is, of course, a minimum degree of recognition and understanding that you have to be able to expect from a big representative, but it is obviously difficult here. So to the question of hijab: That the government doesn't want to allow hijab in combination with uniform, is quite ok for me. I mean something else, but it's too far reasonably uninteresting. We can discuss it, and there are good reasons to discuss it, but that's not the most important political question. What is serious in this debate so far is when Per-Willy Amundsen puts similarities between those who wear hijab and the anti-democratic forces – and a Muslim is automatically an anti-democratic. It's pretty serious, and it can't be said from this pulpit, because there's no cover for it at all, and there's no reason to believe it either.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e259	My claim in the previous post was that the Progress Party upbuilds and houses non-relevant debates. It shows the representative Per-Willy Amundsen in the last post as well. We have finished the debate on hijab in the police. We've all taken a stand on that. That's what we're gonna do. Now the other problem we're going to solve. Now are the other debates we are going to deal with. Now I was appointed as a member of the Housing Committee in due course, who was to look at the Norwegian school's purpose section. At the first meeting I asked about the following: Who wants to change the purpose paragraph? Are those Muslims? The clear answer was no. Not one Muslim had asked for a change of purpose. It was the big community that had come to that point that we had to modernise the purpose paragraph. The community must be passed on. Modernisation of society must continue. We do that every day. If the representative Per-Willy Amundsen doesn't remember it, I would remind you that we have actually made a lot of laws to ensure that gay and lesbians have their rights in this society. It's a special group, so we make laws for them so that they get their rightful place in society. They get influence over this society, because they're part of this society. As Per-Willy Amundsen may remember, we have created a new planning and building law. That law now requires public buildings, and private buildings such as restaurants, etc. shall be adapted to disabled persons. Political parties write their programs both online and on paper, adapted to people who cannot see, or who cannot read. It's making sure to give special groups the opportunity to be equal, to be a part of society, to have influence over the construction of the society of which they're as much as the Progress Party and I are. There's the point again: we have to be responsible for society and go in the same direction. This society can't afford to separate the groups. Here is SV and helps to draw society in the same direction. We want the nation together to face the challenges that this society is facing today, and to face tomorrow. The Progress Party has an opposite message.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e270	When I choose to speak first at the end of the debate, it is for two reasons. One is to comment on the tone of the debate. I would have liked it to have started to become so mature that you could discuss these things without falling into the ditch where you discuss from the extreme point of view and try to put each other in a booth. You try to debate this issue as if it were a problem it's very easy to deal with. It's not. There is a debate in Norway where people are plagued with extreme attitudes, where on the one hand people like to be called cultural relativists and who see no problems in the field of integration, while on the other hand there are people who see only problems in the field of integration. This really spoils the Norwegian integration debate, because we can never get to the heart of the challenge. I believe that this debate too has gone a long way on both sides in trying to characterize each other and in trying to stamp each other's position. We haven't really come one millimeter closer to solving the challenges that this issue is all about, our new women in Norway and their chances of success in Norwegian society. Then we can't stick under the chair that any of them are forced to carry the hijab, and we'll be the warmest defenders for if they themselves want to get the opportunity to throw the hijab. Then Stortinget and Norwegian politicians are going to take a break to help them throw it. But then there are other women who themselves want to wear hijab, and who think it is an important part of their identity. Similarly, the Norwegian Storing shall be their warmest defender. This combination is not easy to relate to. It's demanding, and then we can't have a debate in this room trying to create a situation where this is easy to deal with – just pinch your fingers and come to a conclusion. It's not that simple! The second reason why I wanted to take the floor is to clear the way out a misunderstanding you want to create in this room about the Government's position on this with hijab in the police. The government has repressively said no to hijab in the police, and whoever has not yet got it, wants either to misunderstand or to approach being thin. The fact that some of the representatives in this room have private positions, such as the idea of wearing hijab in the police, does not add a millimeter to the government's conclusion. Just so it's clear: this doesn't change anything in relation to the government's position on hijab in the police.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e286	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e289	I feel the need to clarify an obvious misunderstanding – or it may be that the representative Rikvam from SV hears what he wants to hear. I, the undersigned, have at no time said that hijab is an anti-democratic symbol, but to many it seems that it is. Of many Norwegian Iranians who escaped from the Islamic revolution in 1979, and came to Norway as refugees, hijab is perceived to be just that. The point is that hijab is way too many. For some it is a political symbol and a very extreme one, for others it is only a religious symbol, and for others it is only a cultural matter. The problem here is that we have to have some driving rules. The Progress Party has today proposed the values to be expressed by the Norwegian State through its employees and through the uniform they carry. Unfortunately, I note that we are not getting a majority for this today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e298	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 3290]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e314	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e323	The Right on clearer requirements - increased tolerance contains 23 measures that proposers believe will improve integration policy. I am pleased that everyone in the Committee, except the members of the Progress Party, agrees that Norwegian integration policy has largely been successful. I disagree with the reality description of the Advance Party, as they say in their comments on this document. There is no point in saying that we have major challenges with ‘segregated immigration’. But that doesn't mean we don't have a number of challenges, because we do. There is no one in this room who supports coercion or sexual mutilation. Norwegian laws are to be observed, even if they go across cultural customs. The majority of the Committee agrees that tolerance and equal rights are important values in Norway and that these values are all the more important when the diversity of the Nordics increases. I think this is a good starting point for a good integration policy. Integration is a long and difficult process for many immigrants, and it is difficult to measure whether a person is integrated or not. It is important to distinguish between integration, assimilation and segregation. When integration is debated politically, a common impression is that assimilation is the goal — that is, the more Norwegian the immigrant is, the more and better integrated he has become. But the goal is not that ethnic minorities should become Norwegians, but that they should live well and legally in Norwegian society. Getting this done is demanding. I agree with the proposers in several of the proposals. Many of them are aimed at improving the learning of Norwegian ethnic minorities. The majority of the Committee believes that it is essential for successful integration that immigrants learn Norwegian well and receive training in the Norwegian social system. Language and work are often used as a goal of integration. Therefore, it is important to keep focussed on language training and participation. It is good that a sample now looks at training provision for minority language children, young people and adults. Mastering Norwegian languages is essential for participation in Norwegian society in an active and positive way. The main integration policy tool to achieve this remains the law of introduction introduced by the previous government. The scheme has been successful, and the Left supports the proposal, which will allow even more people to avail themselves of this right and obligation. However, the introduction system is not sufficient to teach all ethnic minorities in Norway. We also need more measures, in particular to teach children and young Norwegians. The left agrees that a good public school with a focus on knowledge is the best integration arena. In addition to a good general school, intensive Norwegian training is important, and voluntary provision for free lessons should be strengthened. Of course, the focus should be for students in the Norwegian school to learn Norwegian. But it's also important that other language skills are not viewed as negative. Controlling more languages is a great advantage, and the Left therefore believes it would be good if it were taught in native language as 2nd foreign language, by native language teachers with pedagogical competence. Such conversion will signal that Norwegian is the main language that all schoolchildren need to be able to liquidate, but that knowledge of other languages is an advantage. The left agrees with the proposers that more needs to be done to stimulate entrepreneurial and tailor-made training and measures specifically aimed at immigrants. There are already special offers today, but this is an area where more can be done. I record that experimentation is now taking place in order to gain more knowledge of how to organise their establishment, and I hope this will produce results. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Left is involved. It concerns the proposals Nos. 1 to 5, 16, 17 and 20.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e340	The representative Vera Lysklätt has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e343	In this setting, Stortinget deals with a number of proposals from the Right. It is affordable for anyone who wants to contribute to bringing forward proposals that balance both the requirement of our immigrants and the ability to meet those requirements. There are many good proposals in this document. The 8 proposal, and I support the intention of most of them. That is why we do not want to vote them down. However, when we do not vote in favour of the proposals, it is based on the fact that many have already been put into effect, and in some areas the Government actually goes beyond the proposals. I would also like to point out that Document No. Eight proposals do not exactly provide the best opportunity to go into the depth and the full scope of the issues raised, especially when the proposals also to those degrees are general, as they are in this case. An example is proposal No. 4 in the setting where it is proposed to ask ‘The government places increased emphasis on a school of knowledge and quality, which sets high standards for all pupils, regardless of background’. We all agree on this, and this is already one of the central objectives of the Government's work with the Norwegian school. So it's a school example of proposals that open doors. The integration policy aims to ensure that immigrants contribute their resources to the Norwegian community as quickly as possible. Then language and work are essential. The government has systematically over the entire period of work to improve integration. In many areas we have succeeded, even though a lot remains. Students need a good start at school. It is then absolutely essential that they master Norwegian language. If they don't, they'll pull the drawback through the entire school run. The government is working hard to ensure that students get as good a start in Norwegian school as possible. Kindergarten services are also essential here, and the project of free core time has proved to be very successful, both for mother and especially for the children concerned. The Government also extends the Norwegian training right and obligation scheme for those covered by it, from 300 hours, as it is today, to 600 hours, combined with an obligation to conduct a final test. Good knowledge of Norwegian language and society is a prerequisite for working well in society, getting a job and being independent. This is particularly important for women. When Norwegian women were released in the 1970s, it was precisely through association with employment, organisational life and becoming financially independent. This also applies to our immigrant women. That's why it's important and good what the government has done. Being a Norwegian citizen is the ultimate proof that you are a Norwegian citizen. You may, among other things: voting rights in major elections, in which case it is right and reasonable to expect a minimum of knowledge of Norwegian language and society. It will also contribute positively to integration, especially for women. Therefore, I am pleased that the Government has signalled that it will send to the hearing a proposal to introduce a requirement of passing a national test before citizenship can be granted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e363	The Committee has examined many good proposals – and a few not quite good ones – that will help improve Norwegian integration policy. The Progress Party is behind most of these proposals, and together with the Right about some of them. So there are some suggestions that we don't agree with, but basically we're together here. It is a little strange, in fact, that when you get so many suggestions on the table to decide on, which obviously aims to improve Norwegian integration policy – because there are major challenges – the majority of the committee is not willing to face up to major challenges, even problems in integration in Norway. When you are able to produce a comment that says that ‘Norwegian integration policy has been largely successful’, I have to say that I am a bit over it. In a situation where we experience increased segregation in a city, in the capital, which is dividing into two, with a very high concentration of immigrant children in some schools, challenges in relation to gender equality, participation in employment, consumption of public services, etc. – there are many issues in the field of integration – and I would like to say with great strength that saying that Norwegian integration policy has been successful is going a little far. I even think a state council has admitted in the past that it's not necessarily a correct description of the situation. But there's something very good that comes out of this – that's what the representative Arild Stokkan-Grande has done – among other things. the Government has now reversed its attitude to mandatory language and knowledge tests in order to grant Norwegian citizenship. That is what the Progress Party thinks is very good. This has been an action that we've been fighting for a long time, that is, becoming a Norwegian citizen is going to be the end of an integration process in Norway, and everything is going to point towards that citizenship. It has proved that you are a full-fledged citizen in Norway, and that you can demonstrate linguistic and other knowledge that enables you to maintain that citizenship. It's very nice that you've realized this from the government, even though I don't think the government parties are necessarily 100 pst. agree on this matter either. The right has also stood behind that proposal. But I would just like to point out that a few months ago the Progress Party took part in a series of debates on this, not least with the representative of the SV, who thought it represented a false human vision, etc. that you should have testing, language and knowledge tests, of people who applied for citizenship, because you should really get that in any case. But it's very interesting that the government has turned around. We are very happy about it, the Progress Party supports it, and we mark the end of a long battle over many years to get mandatory language and knowledge tests in place. As I understand it, the Government is now also in favour of a compulsory ceremony in which citizenship is conferred. That's very good. I am not going to go through all the individual proposals here, but I would like to stress that when you seek to achieve a better integration policy, it must be a fundamental principle that you do not include in it the special treatment of individual groups, that you do not implement, for example, what the Government has agreed to in the past. free core time in kindergartens, in reality for immigrants, although it is said that it is in areas of the city where there is a high concentration of immigrants. The party of progress does not at all believe that it serves the case; on the contrary, there must be general measures, general measures that work equally. But fortunately in this document there are very many good proposals in this way. I take up the proposals No. 6–15.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e378	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e381	I would like to start by thanking you for the positive reception that the proposals have received in general in the Committee, but I would also like to thank the rapporteur in particular for a thorough work on so many proposals that were promoted here from the Right. This right-wing representative’s proposal is reflected in the range of major and central interventions in integration policy for which the Right has had the primary responsibility. I remind you that in the last period, with Erna Solberg as Minister of State and responsible for this area, the introduction system was introduced. One received its own big message that provided the value-based basis for Norwegian integration policies that are still in force, and one put in place the citizenship ceremony that has so far acted as a voluntary scheme. Major, important steps were taken to put integration policies in a wider context, and not least to focus on the need for integration, especially in relation to working life, against women and against children. Therefore, great expectations were created for the new government and the then Council of State responsible for this area, which is also present in the Chamber, incidentally. Bjarne Håkon Hanssen told VG right after the government change that his priority, unlike the previous government, would be integration policy, and that he would work less on immigration policy. Well, after almost four years, one can see that this government has had major problems dealing with refugee policy, but has taken few key initiatives in terms of integration policy. The right, therefore, felt the need to continue the work that one started when we were in government, when we promoted such a comprehensive representative proposal as this, just to move forward in relation to key actions related to integration. This means that one in a representative proposal gets a lot of suggestions in many different areas, but that is the option you have when you are in opposition and cannot write your own message on the topic, which should perhaps be needed for an up-to-date integration policy. Integration is about belonging, it's about creating a society where people feel belonging, but it's also – in a liberal tradition – about creating a society where individuals, the individual human beings, get the opportunity to define themselves, their own role in society. Therefore, assimilation is not. Therefore, integration is not only that those who come to Norway change, but also a recognition that society is changing in line with the people and individuals who live in society. I'm not going to go through the suggestions that are being addressed. It is 23 proposals that are finally being voted on. When we choose to maintain very many proposals, it is precisely because we believe that these are proposals that should have a majority. That one chooses to vote against the thing one is for just because one sits in government, gets to be the problems of the government parties, but at least we choose to promote the proposals for voting. I want to make some suggestions. In the case of languages, especially linked to children, the majority emphasises that 96 pst. of the children meeting at the 4-yearly check-up, and therefore they reject the proposal to make the attendance compulsory, also linked to the requirement that the absence of attendance may lead to benefits. The reason why the minority, and the Right, want this scheme is to take account of the 4 pst. who do not meet with 4-year-olds’ checks, and there is also consideration for those children who do not start up in kindergarten. It is likely that within these groups the main challenges will be, and that is why one towards them will need the most powerful instruments. We are also pleased that the Government is turning around and supporting the proposal for a citizenship test — a mandatory test of both language and knowledge, and a compulsory citizenship ceremony. The right started this work when we were in government with a voluntary scheme. Now that we're going to switch to a mandatory system, we think we're right. And then I'm going to deal with the suggestions. 18, 19, 21-23.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e398	The representative Bent Höie then addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e401	It's approaching election times! Here, the right has collected 23 different suggestions. Some of these proposals have been discussed in the past by the Stortinget. Some of them we have previously dealt with in connection with the Foreign Affairs Act, and we have dealt with them in other contexts. Now they've collected them in one document. That could probably make sense to the election campaign. There are many of the proposals that are unproblematic for most people, I think -- there are things here that the government and others are working on, for example, extending the hours in Norwegian. Everything suggests that it will extend from today's 300 hours to 600 hours, and that a national plan will also be drawn up for this Norwegian subject, and that there will be an opportunity to test the people who have done this. So these are things that are going on, and there's no reason to vote for, of course, when you're working on it. What worries me, and that might create some problems, I feel, is that some of these suggestions might help to maintain some myths. One of the challenges facing integration and immigration is that the debate is often less evidence-based. We lack the facts and have a little lack of knowledge about the stand, about the situation out there. So we postulate, and then we easily spin myths around these postulates we have. Some of us tried some time ago to figure out how many people are actually participating in Norwegian courses. We have statistics on Norwegian training, on how many are on Norwegian training courses each year. That's about. Twenty thousand. But trying to figure out how many people should have been there was a little bit harder -- we didn't find any particular data and information about that. So strengthening the data base and getting a more fact-based debate I think is important in many of these areas, for example, about the number of children who receive poor language training, or have poor language and language understanding when they start school. All of this we should have known something more exact about, had more facts about, and that would make it easier. So the danger is that we create myths. So over to a couple of other of these suggestions. One will wind up the curriculum in Norwegian as a second language. This is an old proposal. That process probably started in the last growing-up period with the Clemet Council and the new curricula. This is being implemented. At the same time, we should also bear in mind that this can be a two-edged sword, precisely because the system of curriculum in Norwegian as a second language has been important to many with relatively poor Norwegian knowledge initially. This has been a rescue plan to gain study competence. I think that many of those who had previously obtained higher education because they had Norwegian as a second language, now will lose this study competence and perhaps lose the opportunity – at least in the first instance – to enter universities and higher education. So we're going to be obs, and we're going to follow what happens. On the other hand, one can also argue that this curriculum has been a sleep cushion perhaps not for students, but perhaps to a large extent for school leaders. It's been easy for them to send these students into that curriculum, and then they haven't had enough ambition to follow the normal Norwegian curriculum. Here there are some challenges, and we should, as I said, be obs. Everything else about stimulating children through kindergarten, I fully agree. All of this is important and correct. I think that many of those suggestions, as they are formulated, will also have an effect. This is what you're working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e423	The integration challenges must be addressed, not used. I feel that there is a Right starting point in this Document No. The 8th proposal. I appreciate the focus in the document – the combination of requirements and tolerance. It gives the opportunity for a worthy debate. I wish we could see more of it also when we participate in the public debate outside this house. Clearly, we have challenges related to immigration. The problems need to be solved, and not used as a pretext for a xenophobic policy. No one deserves to be created further distance and scepticism between groups of the population. Integration is about making distance less. Integration is about people. People are not a problem, they are a resource, and they are involved in creating the new society. I think it's a lot to pick up if we can focus on this in the social debate. The Christian People's Party agrees that language training needs to improve. Today, many people do not complete Norwegian training of 300 hours, as several have said in the debate. It has to be ensured that a system that is meant to be mandatory will actually be. The Christian People's Party believes that the introduction course should be extended to those who come here to the country as part of a family reunion. It's a group that can have the same needs as other immigrants today, but they have different rights. For many immigrants, the first years in Norway may be tough. There's a lot to get into, and without learning completely how the Norwegian system works, it can be hard to figure out. Meeting face to face creates more confidence in the representative of the municipality than a letter in the mailbox. I refer you to the Right's proposal on travelling language educators. The Christian People's Party wants a slightly broader system than this, and believes that outreach integration consultants in the municipalities will be able to help inform about who, what and where to meet for language training, health checks and kindergarten. The meeting with the unknown is always easier if you're following the road. Personal contact can contribute to mutual trust and respect between majority and minority. The Christian People's Party also wants to establish refugee guides in all municipalities. The scheme already exists in some municipalities, for example: directed by the Red Cross. A refugee guide will help refugees who come here, with practical things and connect social ties in a new society, fill out forms and introduce them to friends and activities. We have to use the heart space and the commitment that exists in the Norwegian people to create integration and inclusion. It creates cohesion, and it does not create so-called ghettos or parallel societies. Free core time in kindergarten is a good measure, also in connection with mothering Norwegian language training. The Christian People's Party will clarify the need for several types of childcare activities, where cash support still does not fall away. Loss of cash support may prevent women from participating in education. The school and kindergarten are some of the most important integration areas we have. Minority parents need to be involved in school. All parents should be encouraged to participate and be included in home-school cooperation. This is an important reason why the proposals of the Christian People's Party on their own home-school coordinators should be introduced. Such coordinators will, for example: could help address the problem of the absence of many parents from parental meetings and other school gatherings. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee focuses on the fact that good cooperation between home and high school is very important. This cooperation may be enhanced in the best interests of the Union. The Christian People's Party has registered the Government's signal that the Government will issue a proposal at the hearing where the aim is to introduce a requirement of passing a national test before the granting of citizenship. The Christian People's Party will decide on the matter when it is presented to the Stortinget, but will state in this context that the objective of any test of citizenship must be to achieve better integration and a positive social exposure. Such a test must then be designed in such a way as to contribute to the achievement of these objectives. Finally, the Christian People's Party supports many of the proposals from the Right. We also support the intention, and we have explained in our remarks why we are not in favour of absolutely all the proposals, because we agree with some of what has been said today, that some proposals are to open doors. But the direction of policy is correct.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e447	The written reply to the Committee of the Council of State, Dag Terje Andersen, which was sent on 29 May, sets out in detail the 23 proposals put forward by the representatives. I agree with the proposers that integration policies have been successful in many ways in Norway, but that immigration also brings with it some challenges. In many cases, the Government agrees with the intentions of the representatives’ proposals. Ongoing processes support several of the proposals. Therefore, these do not require new decisions. The government has an active integration policy, and we see results: the IMFI in its annual report shows that integration is progressing, and that most immigrants who have lived in Norway for a long time, and their children, are doing well and are participating in society. Norwegian knowledge and participation in the labour market are the keys to integration. Law on Introductory Arrangements and Norwegian Training is an important instrument here. In order to clarify society’s expectations of learning Norwegian immigrants, it is laid down by law that those who do not undertake 300 hours of training do not receive a residence permit and citizenship. The Government has declared an extension of Norwegian training rights and obligations to 600 hours. A proposal for this will be sent to the hearing before the summer. At the same time, a proposal to introduce a citizenship test shall be submitted to the hearing. The purpose of such a test is to help more people be motivated to learn Norwegian and acquire elementary knowledge about Norway. There are still a number of challenges. For example, unemployment among immigrants is about three times higher than in the rest of the population. This helps to ensure that this group is overrepresented among those with persistent low incomes. For measures dealing with schools and students with a minority background, I refer to Ot.prp. No 55 for 2008-2009, ‘On the Law on Changes in Training Laws and Private School Laws’, to be dealt with at Odelstinget on 8 June. In the 2008–2011 Action Plan against Forced Marriage, which contains a broad commitment to forced marriage, the Government has put a spotlight on the prevention and protection of offenders. To follow-up, a system of minority advisors in secondary schools with a high number of students with a minority background and a system of integration advisers at particularly relevant embassies is in place. Voluntary work is an important resource for integration. In the revised national budget, the government therefore proposes to strengthen non-governmental organisations involved in integration work in the local communities. We have good control procedures in relation to these organisations, but voluntary work grants are also based on trust.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e464	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e467	The Council of State itself said that he is a temporary worker today, but this is probably a subject in which I should think the Council of State is quite well immigrated. The Party of Advances praises the Government, for today it is clear that the Government wants to introduce mandatory language skills tests, as well as a compulsory ceremony. This has been a matter that the Progress Party has fought for too long. We have met with some crass criticism – I would even say indiscriminate attacks – but we have fought for this matter. Today the government comes after, and also the party Right. Does the Council of State think about the sharp rhetoric The Progress Party often meets when we promote good proposals years in front of the other parties, just so that the parties, as the years go by, land at the same position as the Advance Party? Perhaps you should take a little consideration and think through the rhetoric you use in relation to the Procedural Party's clear and good proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e476	A still clock is also just twice a day! So it may be that the Progress Party also happens to be right. This could be an example of that being the case. I do not therefore believe that it should be derived from the fact that it is consistently so that the Progress Party is right in its integration policy. But after a thorough assessment, we have come to the conclusion that it is now right to continue to introduce such a compulsory test linked to citizenship. It is not right, as the representative Amundsen says, that the Government has decided that a compulsory citizenship allowance should be carried out. It has not been adopted by the Government. It is not therefore a proposal that will be sent to the hearing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e481	One of the proposals made in the document was not in the original proposal for a representative related to the grant scheme for the migrant organisations. Now, as the representative, Amundsen, we have a very qualified temporary worker here today at the Council of State. I really want to ask a fairly open question about getting the Council of State's assessment of that proposal. We have traditionally had relatively liberal support schemes for immigrant organisations. Looking at the objective of integration, would it not make more sense to turn these support schemes into the ordinary voluntary organisations working and working in the local environment to create an integration solution instead of giving money to organisations based on ethnicity?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e486	My response to that would be that one does not exclude the other. It is not such that grants are granted unilaterally only to migrant organisations. There are a number of examples of broad organisations, for example: Red Cross, Norwegian Women's Sanitation, etc., which is supported by measures. However, providing support to broad-based organisations does not preclude the view that it may also be appropriate to contribute to the formation of networks in the immigrant communities, to organise those networks, and to build each other up in such a way. I think there's a lot of examples that that might make sense. In a number of areas, we have organisations where members have certain common features that it is important to support above, so that it can lead to progress in several areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e491	The Christian People's Party has called for more refugee guides. Refugees are a system of volunteers who, through a voluntary organisation, have the competence to follow up immigrants and refugees when they come to the country. There is a system that the Red Cross and other organisations have in Norway. They tell us that if they get more money, they can get more volunteers to work, so that every penny that goes to the administration of that type of scheme will give many hours as free hard work to improve integration. What action will the Government take to get a nationwide system of refugee guides, i.e. volunteers, to make an effort to improve integration?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e496	In general, I very much agree with the representative that there are many good experiences relating to e.g.: the work of the Red Cross in relation to refugee guides. I do not feel prepared on a standing footing to explain whether a cooperation with, for example, is planned in the department. The Red Cross to extend this arrangement. There has to be a question that we have to get back to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e501	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3290]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e519	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e528	On Thursday last week we will deal with this in the hall St.meld. No 12 for 2008-2009, ‘A happy event’, with the sub-title ‘About a continuous maternity, maternity and maternity care’. It was the beginning of life that was in focus, and everyone agreed that we should have a holistic maternity care, a safe birth offer and a family-friendly maternity offer. A joint committee concluded that both a decentralized and differentiated maternity care and the strengthening of the midwifery services at municipal level must be ensured. On the same day, we debated here in the hall of the hospice offering, one that dealt with the final phase of life. The Committee agreed that the hospice supply should be improved and that the palliative treatment and care at the end of life should be improved. One said that such services must be well integrated in the entire healthcare system, so that people with a need for relieving and/or palliative treatment can get a well-organised supply as close to their home as possible. The common denominator for these two issues, the first one linked to the beginning of life and the second one to the end of life, is a conscious arrangement for a strong, good and secure supply of fuel as close to the patients' housing as advice. I think on all their behalf I can say that in these cases the patient was really in the center. That also applies to the proposal for a representative that we are now discussing. But now the whole life is the scene. In short, the proposal is that the Storting asks the Government to develop a holistic plan to strengthen the health supply where patients live. In addition, the proposal lists a number of specific measures and instruments that, in the view of the proposers, will help to strengthen the health supply where patients live. 11 of the 13 original proposals from the proposal providers, which are from the Right, have been joined by the other opposition parties. One is supported by the Christian People's Party and the Left, and one from the Left. Otherwise, the Advance Party presents a series of suggestions alone, together with Right and Together with the Right and Christian People's Party. I'll show you in the context of the option - it's too far to go into all of these colors. I assume that the parties themselves will come back to their explicit proposals. The Government Party proposes to attach the matter to the protocol. The left hand side has its own comment, which says that multiple tasks need to be solved closer to the individual user, i.e. in the primary services. It requires a redistribution of both professionals and resources, enabling municipalities to solve new tasks. The left believes that municipalities need to become more robust in the future, so that they can take responsibility for the new welfare tasks, and so that we can have a viable future even within the welfare area. The left hand side marks this view by promoting a separate proposal. That is proposal No. 18 in the setting. In the end, I take up the proposal that the Left is alone, and the Left is together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e552	The representative Gunvald Ludvigsen has addressed the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e555	The undersigned will also, at the outset, give credit to the Right for promoting both this and the next proposal we have to deal with. The Progress Party supports a number of the proposals in this case, as we have supported other issues of freedom of choice and of offering where patients live. Of course, the Progress Party has also promoted a number of its own proposals. I think it's nice to see that the opposition in a lot of proposals stands together in terms of how we can put in place a better system and a better health care where people live. It is therefore gratifying to see the 11 proposals in the majority vote by the Committee. I still want to make just a few comments. It's important that we just make arrangements where people live, because it's actually out in the municipalities that people have, and most of us want an offer – and a really good offer – as close to our own place of residence as it's possible to get. With regard to some proposals, I have to admit that I am surprised that they have not received a majority. In this respect, I would like to draw particular attention to proposal No. 2, from the Party of Advancement, the Right Party, and the Christian Party. If there's one thing we've talked about over and over again in this room, it's just the importance of being able to use the voluntary sector, the importance of being able to play on the team, so that we can put into practice the hands that are out there, the commitment that's out there, in a real way. It is strange, then, that we cannot endorse a proposal which simply says: ‘The government is asking for incentives to be introduced to increase the use of the voluntary sector.’ It's just going into these things that we've all been so busy in this room. It is possible, of course, that you do not want to agree to a proposal in the Chamber here because you may feel that it would be to give a marshall to the Government. But I have not felt that there has been anything negative on the part of the Council of State and the Government either, linked to exploiting the voluntary sector in a better way than we do today. Furthermore, there is also a very important proposal here– to focus on intermediate departments. Yes, the government itself has said that this is important to get in place. It is important to make these offers, both in order to relieve the hospitals and, not least, in order to exploit the opportunities that lie outside the municipality. Then it is strange that when there is a proposal to do just that, you cannot agree with what you have said in the past that you should do. The government has even encouraged the municipalities to put these things in place. So anyway, when the proposal is here, you don't want to give any more incentives to get these things in place. It is also important to use future care technologies. It's probably a proposal that I'm asking a lot of questions about why the majority won't be there. The Technology Council recently presented a report showing how we can use these things in the future: how can we do it better, for example. for those living in nursing homes? How can we make it better for health care to catch up with the individual? How can we follow further developments to get even better and get higher quality on what we're actually giving? It shall not – and I will repeat: it shall not – replace the warm hands and care, but rather facilitate the use of the opportunities provided by the technology. But the majority are going against it. It's very strange to me. But I'm going to accept it, of course, because I'm going to assume that this is going to come back to when you think of it yourself. There's a lot of good suggestions here, and there's a lot of opportunities here to grasp what the minority is offering, and get back to it at a later stage, so that we can get even better and even better. Here's a lot of good work, here's great opportunities, and if we really want to use the capacity out there, exploit the voluntary sector, exploit the technology -- yes, you should actually get to the proposals that are here today, and not wait for other times. I am also addressing the proposals – which are included in the vote – where the Progress Party either stands alone or is with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e586	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposals he referred to, and the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e589	The starting point for this proposal is that the Right is impatient after undertaking the necessary health care reforms. We share the Minister of Health's assessment of the need for fundamental reforms. We agree with the Council of State that we see a formidable use of money without similar results through a better offer to patients. The government has launched an interaction reform to be presented in the form of a large-scale notification after the actual ageing period is over. Concrete measures are not being implemented until far beyond the next majority period. But now the Right therefore invites the Storting to adopt some concrete measures, so that we can get started faster. The cooperation administration started work on the interaction reform. The reduced Wisløff Committee, which delivered its proposals for solutions in 2005. The report was on Stoltenberg's table for three years before the government councillor Hanssen brought it forward and relaunched this as his big project. In the meantime, the Right has pointed out that health care reforms must involve fundamental structural changes. It is an excessive consumption of specialist health services, which is caused by low-level offers at a lower level. Even if 90 pst. of the patients can be completed in the primary health service, the costs of this sector are below 15 pst. of the total cost of healthcare and less than 1⁄4 of the costs of specialist health care. So we have more nurses, more nurses and more doctors in hospitals than many other countries, without getting patients a better offer. At the same time, municipal health and care services are under pressure. Shorter lay times in hospitals and an increasing number of younger users with complex needs are an important reason for this. Over the next 35 years, a doubling of the number of older people over 80 years will increase the pressure on municipalities. The same applies to the increased incidence of chronic disorders such as coal and diabetes. For patients, today’s system failure means frequent and stressful hospitalisation, arduous transport and an incoherent offer. One illustrative example is that in Oslo, there are twice as many elderly people with pneumonia as in Stockholm. For sick elderly people it is a huge burden to be sent between hospitals and hospitals, which can often lead to both confusion and unrest. It is paradoxical that we move sick people to provide as curative treatments as intravenous treatment and antibiotic treatment. In Stockholm, sick elderly people receive such treatment in their home municipality or in their homes. It's better for the patient, and it's cheaper for society. The right will ensure that sick elderly people and others receive better health care where they live. Fortunately, there are many good projects on the move that contribute to this, such as the reinforced health care facilities in cooperation between Aarhus and Nittedal, Saupstad in Trondheim, Storetveit in Bergen, etc. But this must be the general rule, not the health exception. The right also wants a shift of resources from the specialist health service to the municipal health and care service. It has followed up on the right, among other things. by earmarking 400 million. kr in the current year’s budget for better health services where people live. We note that the government parties did not support this, but instead continued to cash into a system that they themselves believe does not work. Several concrete proposals for action have been put forward by the right. Many of these agree, among others: strengthening the fixed medical system and ensuring better financial incentives for treatment at the lowest effective level. However, it is also important to focus on more professional groups and offers than fixed doctors. Health centres, school health services and other lowthreshold services in municipalities are particularly important for children, young people and families living with drug dependence and mental disorders. Care services must be upgraded, not only in the form of several hands and places, but also, and not least, in relation to quality. It is also essential that we succeed in recruiting more qualified personnel, and health professionals should be instructed as soon as possible to develop more decentralised services, both at local hospitals and in the form of outpatient services. I am addressing the proposals that the Right has promoted together with others that have not already been addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e608	The representative Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e611	It is positive that we have another opportunity here at Stortinget to discuss how we can develop measures in local health services that can prevent so many from becoming seriously ill, and eventually have to be treated in hospitals. I fully agree with what is stated in the proposal for a document, that it is all about structural weaknesses in our healthcare system when we are going to address this issue. This has been a subject for a long time at Stortinget, in many debates, at least during this period that I have had the pleasure of being at Stortinget, and we are all aware that the Council of State Bjarne Håkon Hanssen has addressed the issue and announced a big deal about interaction in a short time. I interpret the fact that proposals are now being put forward that directly address the issues to be addressed in that communication as a positive impatience. You want to show that here we're eager, here a total mass will get to something. The descriptions included in the proposed document, e.g. the desire for a greater share of the growth of health budgets to be brought into the public health service is, after all, as a copy of what the Council of State has also said now in various debates and in speeches that have been held on the main points of the interaction reform. In the proposal for a representative, for example, it is outlined. changes in the fixed medical system in order to increase prevention. Cooperation with other parts of the healthcare system is precisely what we, on the part of the government parties, also want to produce in the new big business message. The same applies to the strengthening of health centres, school health services, etc. A Joint Committee supports the intention of all these proposals. What we have done to a lesser extent, and as the proposers have done to a lesser extent, is to go into how we get it, how we realize all these good wishes. It'll be a little bit like that, the committee's going to see the water waiting for the big news to tell us what the procedure is, how we're going to finance it, and what changes we need to make. And there's also a paradox that you mix a lot of different things in the setting, that the parties are trying to read out their wishes that might be at the edge of the proposal. It's e.g. put forward a proposal for a local reform, that is to say we need to change the whole local map, which obviously has something to do with the issue, but which broadens the perspective of the proposal for a representative. Similarly, proposals have been made by the Progress Party on certificates of good repute, price-fixing in healthcare, etc. So there have been many different suggestions in this case. However, if you look at the 11 proposals made by the majority in the vote, then this is a good proposal – a proposal that basically has a very good device. What the government parties are asking is, how are we going to do this? How are we going to finance it? And how are we going to go on beyond just repeating good wishes that all parties have expressed, in many settings, among other things. to the state budget – ‘many’ is probably a little tired of saying, but at least it has been expressed in the four years I have been here. What I want was that we could look at these 11 proposals, look at what's more general, and what's the point where you actually express something that we should really go into. I believe there are in particular three points that require a closer understanding that they should be able to be dealt with properly here at Stortinget. To start from below, with regard to point 11, on establishing financial incentives for the implementation of telemedicine solutions, I absolutely agree that we need to make more use of this, and find out how to facilitate the functioning of the economy at both ends, both for local health care and for those who are driving telemedicine solutions centrally. I would like the proposers to be involved in transmitting that proposal to the Government, because it requires more research into the kind of financial incentives to be provided. The same applies to point 9 on establishing a plan to strengthen the functions of local hospitals in relation to large patient groups requiring closeness to health services, including chronic illness, etc. That proposal is very central to the development and safeguarding of the future of local hospitals and their role in the interaction reform. I would also like to be able to transmit this, so that we could go into it and promote something that was more than just a pious wish, as it works like here. The same applies to point 7, about school health services and health centres, where I would also ask if it could be possible to participate in the transmission. So this is the point 7, 9 and 11. Finally, I refer to the proposal promoted by the government parties that Document No. 8:50 for 2008-2009 is annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e632	The representative Jan Boehler has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e636	I was given responsibility for the Ministry of Health and Welfare in the summer of 2008, and I quickly stated that the biggest challenge we face is an interaction challenge. Changes in the age structure of the population, changes in the state of the disease in recent years, and expected developments in the coming years present reinforced and new challenges to health care. Very many of the shortcomings and challenges outlined concern issues related to interaction between different actors in different sub-services, both within the municipality and between the municipality and the specialist health service. Several patients and patient groups rely on a multi-disciplinary approach and interaction between service levels. Good treatment processes are important for both physical and mental health. Today, we have little systems that support the need for 'cooperation space' as a whole in the course of treatment. But a lot of good interaction is happening today – despite the system. The patient’s need for coordinated services is not adequately addressed. Experience shows that it is often in the transition between hospitals and the municipality that it fails. I would therefore like to stress that an important challenge is to achieve a better interaction between hospitals and municipalities, both in the context of hospitalisation and the outsourcing of patients. I believe it is necessary to strengthen the health and care services in the municipalities in particular. Analysis of reasons for interaction problems may indicate that it is particularly important to put measures on the left on the time axis, i.e. on the prevention side. I am thinking here of both primary, secondary and tertiary prevention. Good methods for identifying disease and early intervention to reduce disease will save many people from unnecessary problems and suffering. In addition, if we do not intensify prevention, healthcare in not too many decades will be so expensive that it will not be possible to achieve sustainable development. The representative's proposal, Document No. 8:50, on better healthcare where patients live, addresses a number of challenges related to current Norwegian healthcare. It shall be taken, inter alia: the main challenge is not resource shortage but structural weaknesses and poor use of resources. In Document No: The 8th proposal is a picture of a fragmented health and care provision for those users most in need of comprehensive and coherent services over time, such as: cancer, sick elderly, patients in need of rehabilitation, mentally ill and addicted. It is noted that the lack of interaction leads to unnecessary hospitalisations, premature outsourcing and poor follow-up from municipal health and care services. Here it's important to take structural action. A lot of important input has been made, and I have read all the proposals carefully when I am now in the interview for the work on the Great Britain Communication on the interaction reform. I would also like to refer to the Wisløff Committee's position – NOW 2005:3, from piece to piece. A coherent healthcare service — which has a number of good suggestions, in fact 49 proposals in total. Let me mention the extension of the patient ombudsman scheme to municipal health and care services, and the proposal to establish cooperation agreements between municipalities and regional health companies with a view to achieving more comprehensive patient treatment. Several of the proposals have been followed up since the selection setting came, and some are still working on it. And that's positive. It's e.g. a national framework agreement on the interaction in the field of health and care between the Ministry of Health and the Municipal Councils of Local Authorities and from 1 September this year we will have an extended patient ombudsman system. But in addition to what has been done in the wake of the Wisloff Committee's proposals, I believe that it needs to be put into practice fundamental instruments relating to law and economics. A central question for me is: what economic and legal systems do we need in order for proper interaction to take place due to the system? Such intervention will also be necessary to enable basic organisational intervention. This I will do, and I am happy to present a big message about interaction in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e675	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e678	I believe that the whole House is looking forward to a big message on the cooperation reform. The problem is that it's just being presented so it's not going to be this big, but in that case the next thing that's going to treat it. The Council of State itself has said that with regard to the main part of the reform, it will take place around 2012 at the earliest. Therefore, it is important to try to get some posts in place at least before that time, because the healthcare system cannot stop until this message is sent. My question to the Council of State goes on one of the proposals I mentioned in my speech, namely the establishment of financial incentives for the implementation of care technology. It is important to be able to take advantage of the opportunities there to use new technologies. If you want to do this in an efficient and reasonable way, for example: in the case of nursing homes, this should be done in connection with the construction of these dwellings. Will the Council of State at least look at the possibility of setting up a system to facilitate the type of technology?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e687	It's really a very interesting question that's being addressed, and I've never thought about it before in public terms. But I have to say, not least on the basis of recent weeks' debate in the Committee on Privacy and some of the issues related to it, that I think we have to start with a slightly more fundamental debate. There is no doubt that some of the technological solutions outlined first need to be clarified in principle, before we create a grant scheme to implement them – for example. the use of GPS, i.e. the use of markings such as: demente, so you can follow them on a map. I have to say that I think it sounds like there can be a lot of excitement in it. But I think that before I set up a grant scheme for that, this room should have a fundamental debate about whether you are in favour of it or accept it. I think step 1 has to be that, not a grant scheme to introduce it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e694	In its speech, the Council of State said that it was important to put in place economic and legal instruments to ensure good interaction. The representative, Mr Bøhler, said that the size of municipalities, and municipal structure, had been drawn into this debate. I could imagine hearing what the council thinks about it that we have so many small municipalities today. How to implement the interaction reform without also having a debate on the municipal structure, without getting bigger and more robust municipalities in order to meet the challenges that healthcare in municipalities will face in the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e701	What I very much agree with the representative, Sjøli, is that the municipal structure we have is challenging in relation to the idea we have of the interaction reform, because there is no doubt that in the interaction reform we will describe a municipal health service that will not be possible to establish in 430 municipalities. In some areas, then, a larger population base will be needed to provide those services in a good way. But the technique we choose in the reform process is that the municipalities that are too small individually need to cooperate on the parts of the services that they are unable to deliver on their own. I believe that it is a proper approach that we establish cooperation solutions in the areas where it is needed, and that it will be possible to implement the proposal for reform we are presenting, without going the way to a structural change in the municipality of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e708	We are some of them that we have major welfare challenges, and interaction is, of course, the key word in this debate. We are waiting for this message to arrive at the end of this month. But what the Council of State was about was that we had to take structural action. I have to say on the left's behalf that I cannot see any other structural grip that we have to take than that we have to look at the municipal structure. In order not to end up with a message that is just being spoken, and in order for us to be able to do something, we have to do something about the municipal structure in the view of the Left – we have also said that in the setting today through a separate proposal. Don't the Council agree that we can't just work together, we just have to do something about both the size and the number of municipalities?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e717	I guess my fear has actually been the opposite. If we were to start where the Left now starts, saying that paragraph 1 is a change in municipal structure and then, that paragraph 2 is an interaction reform, we have really exposed the interaction reform and the opportunity to do something. It might have been interesting to have a discussion here in the Chamber about different government constellations where you could imagine a government that would propose a major change in municipal structure. I should like to see that day that happens. I think it would have been an infinite debate, which would have taken years after year, and then the interaction would have been suffering pending the outcome. That is why I believe that the arrangement that we are presenting later this month is completely sound, where we describe a municipal health service that in some areas will be challenged by the municipal structure. But that's not a new situation for Kommune-Norway. This has been the case in the past, and there are good cooperation solutions in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e722	The cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3292]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e740	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e749	Document No 8:54, representative proposal from the Right, deals with how the proposers think you can get faster health care and greater freedom of choice in healthcare. The document contains eight different proposals which can contribute to it. It is stressed that public health services must ensure that patients receive the necessary health care when they need it and that this service must be of good quality. I don't think anyone disagrees with that. It is also claimed in the proposal that this can be done cheaper in private than in public. There is also a desire for more diversity in offers, and proposers want private actors to have more predictable frameworks to deal with, inter alia. by concluding contracts of a duration of five years. The Committee's treatment shows a minority of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the SV, which refer to the growth of patient treatment and the waiting times as they are today. The same parties, as well as the Christian People's Party and the Left, stress that public health services are the basis for the healthcare to be provided in Norway. The Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party believe that private hospitals are an important complement to the public hospitals, and refer to the answer given by the State Council Hanssen. They agree with the policy pursued by differentiating between private non-profit and private commercial actors in the specialist health service. The same members also refer to the responsibility of regional health enterprises and to the answers given by the Council of State to the various proposals. I can't deal with the individual proposals here, because they're quite comprehensive and big. In view of this, the members of the Workers' Party, the SV and the Central Party believe that the proposal should not be accepted. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, believe that private actors should provide more health services on behalf of the public in order to counteract public monopolies. They indicate that the purchase of healthcare from private individuals has been reduced under the current government in relation to the Cooperative Government. The members of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party believe that the waiting times have now increased significantly. The members of the Right and Advance Party believe that private individuals should perform more services, such as: to build and operate several medical hotels. They also refer to the National Audit Office’s report on mental health protection. They believe that the report shows extensive breaches and that this could be improved by following the proposal available here. The promotion party is of the opinion that this proposal will improve freedom of choice in healthcare and better use of healthcare in general. They also indicate that the available capacity in the private sector should be better used, and that the agreements should be longer, as I referred to earlier. In addition to the proposal from the Right, there is one proposal from the Progress Party and the Right and one from the Progress Party alone. These will probably be supported by speakers from the respective parties. The party of progress says in its comments that one has to put ideological kepphester aside in order to make use of the available capacity. I think they've said something that's absolutely right, and that's at the heart of the proposal, that this is about which model you have faith in is going to work to achieve the best possible health care, what kind of health care we're going to have in the future, and how we're going to spend the money. This is an ideological question. That is why the minority in the Committee – which is the majority in this Chamber – has not endorsed the proposal. I take up proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party. All the parties here at Stortinget will do the best for the patient. We have the same goal, but we choose different paths there. I expect that the majority of the committee itself will justify its proposals, and promote them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e779	The representative of Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e782	First of all, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a very good and thorough presentation that really made my article almost unnecessary. But I have a few small comments that I want to make, just as a supplement. Putting ideological kepphester aside -- yeah, that's exactly what's important. The rapporteur said that for the government parties it is the ideological aspect that is important here. But for the Progress Party, it is not the ideology that is important in such a case – the fact that patients receive help is the most important thing, that is. that what's at the top of the left corner of a pay slip is not what matters. What matters is the health care that the individual actually receives. We know that there is a large amount of available capacity for many contract specialists. They are part of public health. They have an agreement with health care companies, but cannot use their capacity. It's about psychiatrists, i.e., in the psychiatric community. This applies within the ear-nose neck, which may have the longest waiting lists in our public hospitals – but it is not possible to fully exploit the capacity. It's always important to have something to measure each other up against. But it's not that we're going to have a two-part system. The knowledge is that everyone should be able to benefit from the private actors, paid by the public on the basis of a contract work. It's important to have that piece in place. What's happening today is that with the fattest wallet, they'll always be with the privates. You do not have a good enough contract work at the bottom so that the government will pay the bill for those who do not have the same financial opportunities to buy out of any queue. In the vote there are four proposals for decisions – four good ones. It would also bear fruits if you get a different composition in this hall for the autumn, because it's actually important that we use the possibilities that are out there. It's important to bring down the health cows. It's important to have an freedom of choice for those who want it. And it is not least important, as the Progress Party sees it – we stand here alone – to allow the contract specialists to enter into the free choice of hospitals, i.e. as part of the healthcare already agreed with the public. They are part of public health, but they are not allowed to fall under the system that allows you to choose the option. It is also important to be able to provide good information and have a good overview of where there is free capacity, and it is quite obvious that here we need to get better. We need to get better in the free choice of hospitals. You have to be able to rely on the waiting time and the data actually outsourced. And it's important that the Council of State takes it along, that you have a continuous review of the information that is being outsourced, so that you know what you can choose, and what you can choose away. With that, I take up the suggestions in the vote on which the Progress Party stands alone or together with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e799	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e802	In this document, Right-wing proposals on how patients can be helped more quickly out of the health queue and into treatment. Today, 265,000 people are waiting for health care, and there are 65000 more than in the first quarter of 2006. At the same time, we know that there are many beds available in private hospitals and clinics. Thus, it should be a curative matter to ensure that patients come out of the health queue, into treatment, and look at work again. But the main issue of the government in this matter doesn't seem to be providing patients with faster help, but protecting the public health monopoly and combating the private commercial actors. This is so important for the red-green government that it is laid down in the Soria Moria Declaration – and almost before being suspended in the government quarter, the government sent a clear message to the regional health companies to limit the use of such partners. And the results weren't allowed to wait. Co-operation Health reported a significant reduction in private use and the health queue increased markedly. In the Nettavisen on 12 July 2007, Director Hans Petter Aarseth of the Health Directorate states that the reduction in cooperation with private clinics is an important cause of increased health cows. But this is not primarily about waiting list statistics and activity figures. This is about patients, about people who need treatment for their health problems. It's about a working three-child mother who had to pay the shoulder operation herself because she couldn't wait seven months for an operation in a public hospital. Seven months is a long time for a working mother who must be fully married both at work and at home. And it's about the technician who was diagnosed with bilestone, and who was suggested at least three months waiting for surgery. He used his health insurance instead and was treated at a private clinic in the course of two weeks. And it's about a young mother with eating disorders who has to get help from the family to pay for treatment at a private clinic. All parties aim to ensure that patients receive prompt treatment. First of all, this is good for patients and their families, who are spared unnecessary suffering and problems in everyday life. The employer benefits because they get their employees back to work more quickly, and society saves on social security costs and health care costs. However, the government does not seem to be so concerned about what patients, business or society have earned in this matter. It is most concerned about preventing any private person from making money to treat patients. However, patients pay the highest price for this failed monopoly policy, leading to increased queues and waiting time for many patients. The sale of private health insurance has increased by 130 pst. during this government, and in private hospitals, twice as many patients pay for necessary self-financing health care. So Stoltenberg's policy leads to a privatisation of the healthcare system and to a classed healthcare service where only those who have good finances can buy themselves out of line, while the others have to stand at the back. The warm community promised to the red-green government has become a union. It's a community of patients waiting in line, probably could have been out there. Right is most concerned with what's best for patients. Therefore, we will provide patients with faster treatment in private clinics at the expense of the state. This policy reduced health cows from 270 000 in 2001 to 200 000 in the first quarter of 2006, while reducing the waiting time by 20 pst. We have invited government parties to change policies and introduce measures that will contribute to faster health care and shorter health cows. But I must say that I am disappointed that the government parties are voting down the proposals, thus continuing a policy that leads to increased health cows and increased waiting time for patients. For patients in the health queue, many have received treatment. Nor is there any comfort that more money has been spent on health, rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e819	That was especially what the representative Harald Tom Nesvik said, which made me ask for the floor. It is also natural to comment on some of what Sonja Sjøli said. I think the considerations that both representatives came up with are very unsound. It is presented as if the Government and the three government parties in general are opponents of everything that has to do with private services, while the opposition, and especially the Right Party and the Advance Party, is very much in favour of it. It's a picture that's bad with reality. When the fixed medical system was introduced, it was operated by the Workers' Party and SV in many ways. Initially, municipal doctors were employed in many municipalities. Then the private practitioners became self-employed and got employers' responsibility. If you look at agreements concluded with private practitioners, you can see that it was not the Right and the Advance Party that drove through the fact that you should use that capacity – it was mainly the SV and the Workers' Party and also the county municipalities, before you got the health companies. What you saw was that many of the private specialists foamed the cream in the health market without any obligations. Going in and taking commitments and getting a refund grant, against actually having to take the waiting lists, got the waiting lists down, but committed them in a completely different way. Some of the worst examples I have seen of freedom without responsibility have come from the Progress Party, which has proposed a reimbursement scheme for private practitioners, without attaching it to obligations regarding the type of patients to be treated. Therefore, the production of the two batches is quite bare for reflections in relation to the use of public funds. What you have to look at when you give money, give reimbursement to private practitioners, is whether the funds are being used in a targeted way. However, at one point I agree, and there are some examples of capacity that are not fully exploited. Then you get to target it in relation to the examples. One example of this is Capio in Eastfold. I have received quite a number of enquiries about this. A number of enquiries have also been received from SV members who experience that their own family members have a serious illness, and there are available treatment facilities there. We have a proposal for consideration in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. I have to say that there is reason for concern about health company law, if in this case the public authorities, the government, do not have the means to exploit vacancies in an area where there is an absolute need for treatment – waiting for the public to build up that offer. Of course you could do that. Nor can it be that it must be necessary to walk the path of Free Hospital Choice, which I have heard from the Progress Party several times, in order for the public to manage businesses and ensure the use of capacity where quality is good, and where the spaces are needed. It's in many ways, I think, a failure statement if you're going to have to call something that's not a hospital, for a hospital to exploit that capacity. It also shows the degree of political governance in the business community and the extent to which it is left to others to assess which services are to be used. This is especially related to eating refusal. Otherwise, I have to say that I demand, both from the Right and the Advance Party, a more critical assessment of what kind of private services you are going to use. What price should be paid for the services? Who's on the waiting list? How many more are treated now than before? For one of the reasons why several are on the waiting list, it is true that the capacity has been significantly expanded after the Government took over. That's why these are relatively unsound and unreflected considerations, which little describes the reality we're facing, and which seek to create light, rhetorical points for the two parties now so close to the upcoming election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e836	The main provision of healthcare in Norway shall, in the opinion of the Left, be provided by the public health service. But the left is not immune to private health care actors. We have a balanced view of most things – including here. Here you can learn a lot from the left. We believe that private actors who can offer quality health services are an important addition to the public health service. Therefore, the Left is on the recommendation of the Committee majority, points 1 to 4. We believe that these proposals will help to reduce the health queue and shorten the waiting times for necessary health care. The left, however, points out that public health services and private operators need to interact more and better. We think point No. 3 in the recommendation, which requires the development of an information provision containing an overview of the available capacity of private health businesses, so that patients can more easily be informed about different supply. Such an information provision should be relatively curative to establish. Anyway, I think the benefits are much greater than the costs. That's the benefit of the patients we're talking about. In practice, this will lead to what we all here in the Chamber are some that the patient should come first. I want to encourage the state council to see if it can't be implemented in practice, especially at this point.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e845	The government's objective is to ensure that public health services are of high quality and cover all important services to ensure equal access to health services, irrespective of their place of residence and income. Private hospitals are an important complement to public hospitals and the provision by the Health Business Act that regional health establishments provide specialist health services is not required to provide services by the public specialist health service. It is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that the Government wants to have committed and long-term cooperation with hospitals and institutions owned and operated by private, non-profit institutions serving households. The system is based on the fact that private service providers must have an agreement with the public in order to be able to trigger reimbursement. Follow-up to tender legislation is stressed. Patients referred to examination and/or treatment in the specialist healthcare service are mainly referred from their supervisor, unless they are talking about immediate help. Certainly, the patient refers either to the public health service or directly to private service providers with agreements with regional health establishments. Patients referred to hospitals, specialist outpatient clinics or institutions providing multidisciplinary specialised treatment for drug use are entitled to have their health status assessed within 30 working days of receipt of the referral. It has been established by the Patient Rights Act § 2-2. Within the time limit, the patient shall have received an assessment of whether the patient is entitled to the necessary health care and information on when it is expected that the treatment can be given. If the patient is not satisfied with the assessment, the patient may complain to the Health Authority. If patients with the right to necessary health care do not receive the necessary health care within the deadline set, the patient is entitled to receive health care, if necessary from private service providers or service providers outside Norway. The time limit is set on the basis of a medical evaluation. I believe that there is no need to make changes to the Patient Rights Act. Free hospital choice is an information provision for patients, while ensuring the utilisation of free capacity in hospitals. Private hospitals that have contracts with regional health establishments and are part of the Free Hospital Choice scheme are part of the same information provision used for public hospitals. Free hospital choice is available both on the web and on the telephone, and patient advisors provide information on expected waiting times and quality indicators. Regional health establishments shall have systems in place in 2009 to coordinate referrals to specialist healthcare services in the field of mental health protection, so that patients do not turn to more service providers for help. This applies in particular to references to contract specialists. I just want to sum up – for my own part – by saying that I really believe that private hospitals are an important supplement. I think that the representative Ballo reflects well on that, and refers to the fact that it is not an allergy to private providers that characterise Health-Norway. There are very many private people who are part of the Norwegian health system. But at the same time, I also very much agree with the representative of Ballo that if there is to be a system in which private service providers should have reimbursement from the public – what is reimbursement from the public? Well, that means that the government pays for one to perform services – you have to have those who pay, i.e. we have the right to say that the condition to get this payment is as follows – and that has to be agreed upon. That is why I am also very critical of a development that is moving towards a free right of establishment without any conditions, i.e. to be able to discharge public health budgets directly – without any conditions, without any agreement. If anyone in this room is for it, yes, then we're very disagreeable. But I'm very busy talking to regional health companies very clearly that there are going to be private supplements, and we're going to act as – as we've had more debates in this room – tidy public contractors. There we have a piece to go, both in terms of contract length, and in terms of the way we enter into contracts with private operators, around the country of Norway. But the ideological distinction is that the public must have the right to have an opinion about what we spend public money on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e864	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e868	I have not realized that there is anyone in this room who says that the public should not have control of what the public spends the money on. This is regulated by a contract work. It was also done under the previous government, and of course it's at the bottom to use the contract specialists as well. It's quite obvious. What worries me, however, is the situation that the Council itself mentioned – that it is we, that is, the public that pays – that is right – but it is also the public that pays sick pay. It's just another budget, but the cost is going to get there. The longer a patient is sick and out of work, for example, public pay, on its own. Whether you get help or not, the bill is left to the public. My question to the Council of State is: Is it not better to use the capacity of contract specialists, who already have a price agreement – the whole package – instead of letting people go and suffer and, for example, be out of work? I want to mention the pain clinic, which cannot exploit its capacity, psychiatrists... and others. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e877	The principle of what the representative Nesvik refers to now, there is no disagreement. This is happening. The ‘Rescheduling back’ scheme has provided health businesses with significant additional resources targeted at the sick. Much of the money is spent in e.g. private clinics, and several private clinics have expanded their activities by targeting disease-infected interventions through the ‘Retreaters’ scheme. There's not a single door here when it comes to the principal approach angle of Harald Tom Nesvik. What's the discussion all the time, is whether we're going to use even more resources this way. Well, there's a budgetary discussion about how much resources we're going to spend on hospitals, on health care at all times, but this is happening through the «Rescue Back» scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e884	The Court of Auditors, in its report Document No. 3:5 for 2008-2009 pointed out that hospitals are violating the Patient Rights Act to mentally ill people, and that one of the main problems is that hospitals set a deadline for medical treatment based on their own capacity and not on the patient’s needs. In addition, both the Health Inspectorate and the Norwegian Patient Register show that there are widespread violations of patient rights. In the proposal we are discussing today, the Right Party is in favour of a system in which an independent body assesses the patient’s need for help in order to avoid hospitals becoming the abdomen that fits the oat sack. This will help patients to get help faster and that patients’ rights are given a real content. In a letter to the Committee, the Council of State rejects the fact that there is a breach of patient rights and that there is a problem. ‘There is no basis for that,’ he said, ‘to claim that patients are not given a time limit for treatment’. My question then is whether he believes that the Riksrevision is wrong. And if not, what action will he take to ensure that patients get help when they need it, and not when it suits the hospital?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e898	That was a question with a lot of elements. When it comes to how I look at the National Audit Office's report on mental health, I've answered it very carefully, for example. in the open hearing held in the Control and Constitutional Committee. I refer to that answer here too. Then I have to say that I am extremely critical of taking the professional evaluation of whether a person needs specialised treatment, necessary health care and the deadline for doing so, out of the healthcare system, for the rest. So we're going to take a lot of doctors out of the hospitals and place them in some kind of order office, for which the Right has a love, and then they're going to sit there, regardless of a clinical environment, and evaluate the health care needed. I do not believe in that model at all, at least not if the purpose is to bring down the queue. If the aim is to create extra bureaucracy and probably longer queues, it's probably a way to go, but it's not my way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e907	The council said in its statement that the government does not have an allergy to private actors. It's very good to right. In my post, I specifically mentioned point 3 of the decision. There we ask the Government. ‘at the earliest possible stage, develop an information offer with an overview of available capacity in private health establishments, so that patients can be more easily informed about different offers’. If you want us to have a good interaction between qualitatively good private actors, patients need to know about it. I don't think we can assume that all patients have the same insight. Why can't the public help us get such an overview of all qualitatively good supplies? What does the Council of State think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e917	I believe that we have a long way to go, because we have free hospital choice, i.e. the website and the free hospital choice system. It is not that only public hospitals are part of the Free Hospital Selection scheme. When you think that the waiting time is long, and you want to see if there are alternative options for the place you are referred to, you can get good guidance, either through the web system or through consultants, to find alternative solutions. If there is free capacity in private institutions that have contracts with the public, you will be advised and referred to there. It is therefore not that our information systems are reserved only for public enterprises. In that system, there are also private providers who have agreements and cooperate with the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e922	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e927	We often talk about spending a lot of money on health care here in Norway, and we do. But quality is not measured in money. It's measured by how patients feel that they're being cared for in our health care system. Many today feel that they are being poorly cared for. The waiting times increase, and the choices that patients have are very limited. You can’t just measure that you are treating more and more patients. There are clear numbers that show that the waiting lists are getting longer and longer. It's natural. We are more people, we are more elderly, and there are more who live longer with serious illness. Then the health care system needs to be upgraded accordingly. This with faster help is one thing, but the breadth of the offer is also very important. I expect everyone in the Health Committee has received many enquiries about Capio, as Ballo also mentioned here. This is a group of patients who are being offered too badly in the Norwegian health system. Not only is it a long wait, but they do not actually get the treatment that helps them. Capio has helped very many, as it is said here, but how in all the world should Capio have arisen with a red-green health care system? Such private alternatives would never have existed. They would never have seen the light of day, and they would never have been able to contribute to improving the quality of public health through new knowledge. You also say that you should use it as a supplement as long as you need it. In other words, these enterprises should have no predictability at all. They should be there as long as the public seems to need them, as long as it is politically decided that they are needed, and then they can only be put down when they are no longer needed. Who in the world is going to dry up to start such good, private alternative treatments in the future if we get a red-green health care here in the country, which is being implemented as the red-greens really want it? Then it won't exist. Then you won't get the supplement that you want exactly the day you think you need it. These private people want to be part of the healthcare system, they want to commit, they want to get long-term contracts – and they're wanted by patients. That's what's important. The patients are ringing around them. They say, "We want this." At that time, it is time to put away the hat stalls and see what we have of capacity here in the country, exploit it and give them an opportunity to contribute and help develop the healthcare system for the benefit of patients – and not for the benefit of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e938	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3294]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e956	The debate on dental care is a recurring topic. I have now been sitting for almost 12 years on Stortinget, and remembers back to 1997 that it came up as a topic. It is also not so strange, because it is difficult to explain logically that while you have relatively good arrangements – it must be allowed to say, despite the fact that it was an amicable description of the Norwegian health service Progress Party came into the previous article – by the fact that the proportions of the general health service are low, most people receive reasonably rapid treatment, and there is no cost related to the treatment that substantially prevents people from using the healthcare system, so is the contrast to the dental service. I assume that most have received descriptions from patients who may have had costs up to NOK 30 000 – some of them significantly more. We see that some vulnerable groups may have had such high costs that they no longer use dental services. What is seen in the organisation of dental care in Norway is that it is characterized by the fact that the population does not have the right to general social security benefits, such as medical treatment, physiotherapy, home care. We can also mention other services, such as: psychological services. The rights are based on those groups that need it the most, either as a public-organised service under the Dental Services Act or as social security funding. Rights to publicly organised services for children and young people and some other groups are largely in line with similar organisation and funding in the other Nordic countries. The special feature of the Dental Service Act is that the law defines who has rights. These are priority groups and the offer should be out-of-court. The court corresponds to the county council's obligation to provide the necessary dental care to the same groups. Firstly, the fact that we have a publicly organised and outreach offer is that dental diseases, especially caries, occur in all age groups, including the youngest. The damage caused to the individual by the disease will last forever, and even if the damage is repaired, it will require control and often repairs in relation to poor dental status. Caries or sequelae of caries can be largely prevented in most. Another reason why the group is entitled to outreach services is that many often have problems in being able to take care of their own dental health. Someone's having problems with self-esteem. You can see it in some chroniclers, especially in people with very severe mental disorders, and we've seen the same thing in some people with pronounced drug problems. The Public Social Security Act has social welfare schemes for the rest of the population for some types of disease/treatment and for dental treatment for people with general disorders/diseases. The proposal adopted by the SV in 2000 resulted in a decision on a public inquiry, and in the wake of a large-scale notification, which came in 2007. The proposal that I brought in the pen at the time, and that SV promoted, had two elements in it. One was that reimbursement schemes should be developed, which meant that the excess over time was reduced to the level that is too marginal for the population in terms of health care. However – and this is an important ‘but’ – it is important to be able to create the kind of arrangements in which you have a reimbursement system at the bottom, as with doctors and other health professionals, you have to make commitments to the dental staff, which means that you stick to fixed tariffs, and that you decide the proportions on the basis of it, which is then refunded by the social security system. This means that models should also be linked to operating grants, where individual dental practitioners receive a grant to pursue their practices against commitment. It is true that the public dental service has been organised via the county. What we see is that there are very big differences in what you can offer, depending on how well you recruit professionals for the public dentistry. Therefore, SV has seen such a solution integrated as I have now outlined, with operating grants and obligations for the individual dental practitioner against public dental work, by performing it on single days for the public. One can, of course, refer to the fixed medical system – without SV being called upon to have a fixed syllabus – where it can be seen that the introduction of the fixed medical system has resulted in a much better geographical distribution of primary doctors, where it has been ensured that waiting times are much shorter, and where overall, it must be said that the scheme has been a major success. So a similar model could be considered in terms of dental care. Of course, I am glad that the proposal that was made at the time resulted in an increased focus on dental care. I would also point out, in the name of justice, that about at the same time, or something after, it was a proposal that was re-examined from Øystein Hedstrom of the Progress Party at that time, about periodontite, for which I was the case rapporteur, for which the Stortinget decided that a reimbursement system should be set up, and which has also been put in place. What strikes you when you reflect on the development of dental care is that it is to a very large extent the Storting that has driven change of arrangements, and changing governments have shown great reluctance to go in for improved dental systems. One of the reasons for this may be that such a scheme is considered expensive and costly, and therefore difficult to introduce with tight budgets. There are different calculations of what the cost would be if you had equalized dental health and other health. There might be some crack here, but I've heard numbers that vary between 5 billion dollars and 8 billion dollars, when such a system is fully implemented. Of course, there may be a lot of noise, but at the same time it is in the order of the growth of specialist services in a single year. It's e.g. in the order in which only the fluctuation, variation, in sickness benefit payments may be made in one year. So it is not a kind of reform that is totally unrealistic as to how costly it is. At the same time, in my view, it's also unreasonably ethical to say that it's because you've historically chosen two different races, if you hit the patients in exactly the same way, and you get sequels to the individual's health as a consequence of this becoming so expensive. Then you should sort it out. Then you should have reimbursement arrangements, and then you should make sure that people get better out. What may also be important to emphasise in this context is that, if you think of a self-employment measure of approximately NOK 2 500 on an annual basis – which is roughly the point of entry for self-employment 2 in healthcare today, it is in that order of plus/minus – you will see that around 70 pst. the costs of the population are lower than that. This means that most of the population will pay roughly like today, while those who have higher costs than that will receive a reimbursement scheme they do not have today. What we see at the same time is that it's approx. 86 pst. of the Norwegian population who are regular users of dental services. This means that they have averaged over the course of two years in dental care. What's interesting is to look at that group – the 14 percent – that are not regular users, because it's precisely in the group you'll find those who will be able to make a lot of use of this type of action. It's also where you find some significant diseases, significant social problems and very poor dental status. Many of them fall out of the labour market also for cosmetic reasons, because having poor dental status means having problems purely social, including in the workplace. That is why we need to look at the consequences. It should be emphasised that the Government is in the process of taking the first step towards a public dental reform. We have provided a large-scale report proposing to extend the system of free dental services, including: persons with severe mental illness, persons with disabilities, persons with very low income, sick hubarbs and 19- to 20-year-olds. Furthermore, it is proposed to introduce a health check for the elderly and an extension of the screening system against high costs of dental treatment reimbursed by the social security system. But what we see is that the three parties at their national meetings go further and have ambitions beyond that. Just as with the interaction reform, there can be ambitions that go beyond this ageing period, I am curious about the Minister of Health's ambitions in this field. I registered this morning in Political Quarter that the Right said the Government has not got anything in this area. That's not right. But what can also be well worth stressing, is that the right, which is the only party, in its program has no ambitions in this area. That's for real. But at the same time it makes visible the dilemma that arises if the Right would decide over this policy and not the sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e982	The representative, Ballo and I, at least agree that public funding for dental care should be extended. We don't have to look at the next programming period to find support for that view, because the Soria Moria Declaration states that we are going to start work on a public dental reform. As Ballo also pointed out, during the current period Stortinget has presented a big message that outlines how the dental service of the future should be further developed, St.meld. No 35 for 2006–2007, Accessibility, Competence and Social Cohesion — The Dental Service of the Future, presented on 29 June 2007 and addressed in the United Kingdom on 7 March 2008. The size has adhered to the main principle that extensions of publicly funded dental services should be given to those who need it the most. That is the main principle of that communication. As the representative Ballo was also involved in his speech, we have a lot of challenges with the principal approach angle. Although I agree with the representative of Ballo that the government has done something during this period, it is easy to admit that much remains. We have pointed out some groups to be given priority, and I repeat them – although the representative Ballo was also referring to them: it is an extension of the scheme for people with severe mental disorders, an extension for those with drug problems, an extension for people with disabilities, and it points to people with very low incomes. It's e.g. a discussion of participants in the qualification programme shall enjoy the same rights as persons receiving financial social assistance. The fact that 19- and 20-year-olds will receive free dental treatment is a goal, and the health check for the elderly and dental services for healthcare providers. One also points to a shield against high expenses. This refers to dental regulation for children and young people, where there is a reimbursement scheme. As a stepfather of two children who are currently receiving dental regulation, you know very well that the public reimbursement schemes do not cover the cost. An extension of the periodontite rehabilitation scheme has been highlighted. There is also, as Ballo said, that there is a reimbursement scheme, but there are also examples that even after reimbursement is given, people can be left with probabilities of up to NOK 150 000. Yes, it is a reimbursement scheme, but extensive rehabilitation is very expensive, and there may be significant excesses. There is also evidence of protection against high costs for those who have undergone surgical treatment. In addition, the Stortinget has pointed out through a Roman decision that we need to investigate arrangements for torture and assault victims. The government has followed up the Roman Numeral Decision by placing an order in that area with the Health Directorate. In annotated form, the majority of the Committee has highlighted the need to look at schemes for those who have anxiety problems related to going to the dentist, i.e., dental frights, to use a popular expression. We also follow up on the desire to evaluate how it has worked with dental treatment for drug users. It is an evaluation that is under the control of SIRUS. The point of taking this so thoroughly is that there are already very clear orders from Stortingen on how we should now move on to give better arrangements to those who need it the most. I have to say that there is a form of work that appeals to me. But then, in addition to that, the representative of Ballo is right in saying that if you look at the national meetings of the present government parties, all three current government parties, and well the vast majority of parties, have ambitions beyond what is now summed up from the treatment of the said down-to-earth message. My own batch, for example, has been programmed to set a ceiling on how much each individual should pay for the costs of necessary dental treatment, so that everyone can afford to take care of their dental health in a good way. There are variants of this type of programme formulations in the three government parties and among other political parties. That means that I imagine that if the three current government parties keep the majority they have in Stortingen this period, it will be a government declaration no. two, where it would be natural for such strong programme formulations to be expressed through even stronger ambitions during the next majority period than has been drawn up through the previously mentioned majority message. In that case, it is difficult for a government council to reflect on something. I don't yet know what is the program formulation, what kind of goals it is to be drawn up. When they're not drawn up, it's also hard to wonder what might be the solutions. At all, it's a strenuous exercise for a state council to speculate on different alternatives from the Storting pulpit. A model is the one that the representative Ballo himself now has to look at, in general, extended reimbursement schemes. In this way it is interesting to look at the experience of Sweden, where there has been a much broader, extended reimbursement scheme over many years. I do not think the scheme in Sweden can be described as a continuous success either, but there is no doubt that it is a more comprehensive scheme than the one we have in Norway. But I think it's important, in the investigations that have to take place in the next period, to address an important issue, which I think the representative Ballo is also involved in his post, namely that even if you have comprehensive reimbursement arrangements, it's not safe to catch up with those who need it the most. Many people then point out that, either instead of such a reimbursement scheme or at least in addition to such a reimbursement scheme, the capacity – the public dental service, the part administered and implemented by the county councils – has to be increased because it is possible to improve access to outreach activities. Even if you have good reimbursement arrangements, you may not be able to reach those you should rather reach. If outreach activities are to be carried out, such an extended reimbursement scheme should possibly be combined with an enhanced public dental service. All of this will have to be addressed when we know the election result, and we know who will negotiate a new government platform. Regardless of what becomes the government platform, individual parties will promote their choices in the autumn, in the next major period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1001	I'm very pleased with the Council's answer, and I have an absolute understanding of how to describe in concrete terms what a system should be like, which one would necessarily have to discuss in the context of an election result, becoming a kind of speculation it might be difficult to go into. At the same time, the Council of State quotes from the National Labour Party meeting, where it went for a self-participation. The figures for percentages and distribution among the population, which are well taken from the Ministry of Health and Health in the context of the Federal Office's report on dental health, show that half of those who have been to dentistry in the last year have paid less than NOK 1 000 and 70 pst. has paid less than NOK 2000. The proportion of those who have paid more than NOK 5000 has increased from NOK 10 pst. in 2004 to 12 pst. in 2006. 2-3 pst. have spent more than NOK 10 000 in the last 12 months. Some treatments may be much more expensive. So these are numbers that refer to 2006. I haven't checked the numbers for 2008. I don't think they've changed significantly. What strikes you is that we're talking about a group that makes up a relatively small proportion of the population, where it's not necessarily given, when, to prevent that group from getting so high, costs add up, that they need to be sky-high. But it has great consequences for the group we're talking about. It also has a major impact on families, on the whole social situation, and the health status is generally affected as a consequence. Therefore, it is important to get action to catch that group. I must say that I have very much faith in universal action, precisely because our society is otherwise built up into universal action. And when you take the discussion instead, you see how the Progress Party and the Right argue against schemes that lead to the rich being able to pay off. In many ways there are also arguments for universal arrangements, for it is said that regardless of whether you are poor or rich, you should be able to afford to use the services. Therefore, services should be such that everyone has access to them. So there's one point that I didn't mention in my first post. I've had a meeting with the Dental Association. It is true that considerable competences have been acquired among dental nurses. In order to improve the geographical coverage as well as to carry out several of these tasks, it is appropriate to consider whether dental care cannot work independently on a number of tasks to a greater extent. It's not something that, as far as I've been aware, conflicts with the Dental Association, because they see that it can be useful to distribute these tasks, and that dental care can carry out a number of tasks on an independent basis. I would like to hear the views of the Council of State on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1010	I agree with Mr Ballo that there is an interesting debate on how to move forward in this area, and I share in principle the basic view of Mr Ballo that welfare systems should be universally designed. This does not mean that everyone should contribute the same amount to the welfare systems, because through the tax system, one should have a burden-sharing, and then one should universally design the welfare systems. It's the same principle view that I have. But what's the big question, given that it's the goal – and the Workers' Party's programme says that it's the goal – is, of course, a thank you, a universal welfare system with a self-interest. So anyway, there'll be a very interesting discussion about what's the way to achieve that goal, because we'll also be facing some tough health priority rounds in the future: what's the most important thing to spend money on now? My view of it – at least immediately – will be clear that it is now more important to spend public money on, for example, the first round of priorities. lifting more drug users into free dental care than reducing my costs of dental treatment. As for my dental expenses, I guess I'm a normal user in the sense that I'm getting so old that sometimes it costs a few dollars to go to the dentist, but I live with it. That's why I want to say that I'm going to give priority now, first I want to bring in more of those who need it the most, than to give priority first to reducing the cost to ordinary people, who are basically in a situation where they live well with the costs. Nevertheless, it is very important to stress that in some areas of the health sector, we are weakly functioning as a welfare society. I gave it the example that there may be people who have had periodontitis, and who are thus experiencing fractions of NOK 150 000. I almost don't think we can deal with this in the hall either. It shows that in some areas it is really important to bring about changes, progress and reform in the dental field.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1019	The interpellant addresses a theme that he – correctly – says has been important to many parties at national meetings. Good decisions have been made there on future policies, and we are looking forward to that being a reality. We treated St.meld. No 35 for 2006–2007 very thoroughly and had a good review of it. I want to refer to the debate and what was said there. In the committee we also have a proposal to improve the dental field that we are dealing with, and I will not comment here. At least it shows that dental health is often discussed and often presented in the political picture. I think all the parties now have made it quite clear that the teeth are part of the body for most – so at least we've agreed on something. We have, as the Council of State says, improved dental care for several groups, among others. for drug users and for prisoners, while new groups have been integrated through changes in grants, and there has been more justice. But we're not there as the interpellant wants to be, with reimbursements and self-participation. It could be a way to go, but that way is not completely without hops. If one is to submit to several reimbursement schemes, it is necessary to conclude agreements with the dentists, for everyone believes that if reimbursements are made without having a contract price or restrictions, there could be a fairly large cost item for the country. I want to refer to what was done in Sweden in relation to this. They've had very good arrangements there, but they've tightened up a lot, because there's been a lot of spending on a good plan. The interpellant itself says that the idea of a fixed-diameter system is the closest thing to think about, and it might be what we need to think about further, so that we get more angles of incidence to that challenge. Agreements must be concluded and negotiated. When we talk about permanents, all the studies show that people are reasonably faithful to their own dentist, so there I don't think we will face much resistance. But it's clear that it might be hard to understand. It is that we lack many dentists around Norway. Even with grants for establishment and active recruitment, this is something that should worry us. Of course, we want an equivalent offer for everyone in the country. If we're going to put in place good arrangements, it has to apply to everyone. We are working badly to get more dentists to work, either in public or in private, and it must continue. The interpellant was inside the dentist, and it is clear that this is an important field. In connection with St.meld. No 35 for 2006–2007, we concluded that more dentists need to be introduced into the market. We must have several places of study, we also established that in connection with St.meld. No 35, for dental practitioners can be part of the entire healthcare system — from children to old people — and they can release room for dental work. Getting more dental nurses into dental care is important. It is also important to clarify the concept of ‘necessary dental treatment’. It must be reviewed so that cosmetic treatments do not become part of the reimbursement basis. So there are some questions that both have to be delineated and passed through before we're in the goal. The working party will help to reduce the cost of dental treatment, but we need to be sure that we get it right – those who need it the most. That is why, as the Council of State said, I believe that we should continue to include more groups – as we have begun – in the reimbursement schemes, while continuing to work with the national meetings proposals, which are much more extensive than they are initially thought to be. What I think we can agree on is that we want to go on, and that we want to go on into a Soria Moria 2 that states that there should be a better reimbursement scheme for dental health than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1042	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant, who is promoting an important matter through its interpellation today. The lack that the oral cavity in Norway is not equated with the other body in terms of health treatment and economic follow-up is high. Regardless of the group in which patients had to be in, who have reimbursement arrangements, there are very many who are left with severe expenditures for the treatment of their teeth. When the Council of State says that regardless of which scheme you prefer, you may never be able to catch everyone – it's just that you can't catch everyone – I think it's a defensive attitude, because it's true that you get a better system in place, you'll at least be able to catch up much more than you can do today. That it is an interesting health policy area is right, because Norway is far behind several of our neighbouring countries in the treatment of teeth, despite the fact that our economy is much better. I should like to refer to the motion for a resolution tabled by the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats on behalf of the Group of the European Liberal, Democrat and Reform Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats. 8:89, which just addresses many of the issues that the interpellant mentions in its interpellance. If the interpellant wants to do so and will change today's regime so that all groups with a special need for better and extended reimbursement schemes should actually support this proposal. At the same time, both the Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party would take care of their national meetings, where both parties agreed that dental health is a priority area and that a much better offer should be given to their own people than today. I am surprised that the Council of State almost reverts to what has been agreed at the national meeting of its own party. The promotion party is of the opinion that there is a great need for a comprehensive dental reform in Norway, so that the individual’s economic situation is not crucial for affording the necessary dental care. We are of the opinion that this must be done through an upper roof, and we also believe that there is a need for an improvement in dental care for those groups that are currently entitled to free dental care. For example, for many older people in institutions, where county authorities are responsible today, there is little doubt that the follow-up and competence of providing good dental care could be much better. The same can be said about the group that has periodontitis, or inflammation of the oral cavity. We also believe that the ministry needs to develop criteria for the necessary dental treatment, distinguishing between the cosmetic and the disease-related, and that a contract must be established between the authorities and the Norwegian Dental Association related to reimbursement tariffs and other framework conditions for such a scheme. This became very clear during the treatment of dental report, where there was a very large gap from the department about what such a scheme would cost, when we in the Advance Party asked to develop proceeds on different frameworks. The point of progress is of the opinion that disease in the oral cavity must be equated with disease in the rest of the body. The point of progress is of the opinion that there is an artificial distinction in Norwegian health services, when all other health services except dental services are eligible for reimbursement. We're all well-known that many people don't want to go to a dentist because of fear and excessive expenses. Each year it is about 3,000 patients abroad to solve their dental problems. And then we find it amazing that both the Swedish Labour Party and the Swedish Labour Party seem to be going against our proposal on this, despite the fact that they have national meetings on it in their own parties, and that they have run a high profile in the media about their future human and social dental policy. This is unbelievable, and if in today's government there are other intentions than to double-communise, the government should actually support the proposals of the Progress Party. For you think something about your policy, it's easy to adopt our proposal. It's not easy to decide who needs dental treatment the most. For this reason, we need to put in place a roof for treatment, where we, for example, need to be able to do so. has a partial share of NOK 3000 or around it, a universal scheme and a good protection of those groups that need it the most.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1057	In view of the promises made by the red-green parties at the last major elections, it is essentially a timely question that the representative, Mr Ballo, asks the Minister of Health and Care today. The government sent out a dental report last year, which we treated. I would say that the most important policy action in the big news was that they canceled the red-green promise of free dental treatment to everyone. There were almost no limits to what central politicians, especially from the SV and the Workers' Party, promised in the dental field during the election campaign four years ago – and more than that: In the 2004 Newspaper, party leader Kristin Halvorsen said that no one should stop going to the dentist because they can't afford it. She went on to say that the dental reform was one of the three most important reforms in the next few years, and that dental health should be included in public health at the same time as other health services. But Finance Minister Kristin Halvorsen has not been able to afford to give those who need it the most, and the poorer cheaper dental treatment, even though Norway has never been richer. Workers' Party Health Policy at Stortinget in the previous period Britt Hildeng also promised free dental treatment to everyone. However, Hildeng's colleague, Brustad, delivered last year, was not DKK 6-7 billion for a welfare reform, but bountiful 6 million. kr, which is not even for dental treatment for those who need it the most, but for measures of competence. The right has never promised free dental treatment to everyone, because we believe that this will not be a proper prioritization of the health care funds. The right is responsible enough not to be involved in creating an expectation crisis in this area as well. For most people, the cost of dental treatment represents an affordable cost, and at a time when most people have good private finances and good dental health, there is no basis for entering into general reimbursement schemes for these costs. However, what has been a central element of the Right’s dental policy is that those with low incomes and high dental costs need better public support schemes. Poor dental health can lead to severe pain, problems in eating and experiencing social stigmatizing. Such dental problems particularly affect those with drug problems, sick elderly, people with mental health problems and chronically ill. At the same time, some have so low income over time that they have problems covering expenditure. The right has strengthened the dental service for those who need it the most, and we believe that this is the main direction for the further work on the dental field. The Co-operation Board introduced a new self-participation 2 shielding system, which ensures public support, inter alia: for surgical treatment for dental problems and treatment of periodontitis. The co-operation administration also provided for a significant extension of the lowthreshold provision of health services to drug addicts, and dental services for people with severe problems have to be designed as unbureaucratic lowthreshold services. This is essential for people with, for example, serious drug problems and serious mental disorders to receive help. Older chronically ill people and others receiving social and care services must be a priority group and must be involved in expanding reimbursement schemes for those who need it the most. I'm recording that several parties are now making new promises. But despite the fact that this government has had DKK 185 billion more to go with than the previous government and has a majority in the Storting, they haven't come up with more than $6 million. kr in addition to measures of competence during the period in which they have been under government responsibility. I seem to record that the State Council Hanssen almost canceled the promise of free dental treatment to everyone, and will give priority to those who need it the most. It's been -- and it's -- the right line. I fully agree with the Council of State that there are enormous health and care challenges. There are addicted, mentally ill, chronically ill, elderly people — there are many groups who need help. We have 265,000 in health queues, and we have solid deficits in health businesses, so it's clear that this must be a priority. I don't know if we're going to trust the red-green parts in terms of the dental lift. At least they have not had the ability and the will to prioritize this area in a period of a historically good economy, and then the question is whether there is any reason to trust them now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1078	The left has been busy with dental health for many years. What has been – and is – the main point of view of the Left is that it is unimaginable that dental treatment is separate from other medical treatments. One might take a small illustration in this context: what is e.g. the difference between nail root infection and gingivitis? Those who have problems with nailroots can both get sick and get all the expenses covered, while people with dental infection, who are also very painful, have to pay everything themselves. So here's a missing logic, I'll say. What left has fixed in its programme for the next period is that we want public funding. We want the government to cover half of the expenses from NOK 3000 to NOK 15 000, and NOK 85 pst. of the costs over NOK 15 000 – in reality a Swedish model. But we have always pointed out that those who have the worst conditions in this country also have the worst dental condition. So we want screens to postpone groups: the elderly, drug addicts, chroniclers, including diabetics, revenants, cancer-treated -- they have worse dental health than the rest of the population. We could also include that people with mental disorders should receive dental treatment, regardless of how they stop in an institution. It's very professional support for it. Young people with eating disorders, especially anorexia and bulimia, can have large toothaches with torn, rotten and missing teeth. Bad teeth are often stigmatizing, and it's socially exclusive, and a lot of people argue to participate socially because of this. So it's also a social aberration project to do something about financing dental treatment costs. Not to mention the elderly: when they get to the institution, it's, at least in our opinion, too late. If you have lost your teeth when you are at home, you have a major nutritional problem, and you become undernourished. You simply get severe pain and sores in the oral cavity. At least it doesn't encourage you to get food. Good dental health is therefore also important for general health. A disabled parent should have the dental treatment covered. The interpellant has taken up an interesting matter. He also said something interesting in his first post, that it is the Stortinget that has driven the dental question. So it doesn't come from a sitting government, and it's pretty interesting. There are also many who have shown to St.meld. No 35 for 2006–2007, dental notification. I was the spokesperson for that matter. We must be able to say that there were not so many exciting games coming. I did a little practice in connection with it and looked for measures. What I can tell you – I've probably said that before, but I like to repeat it – was that the word "outcome" was taken 16 times, "come back to" 19 times, and "estimate" 69 times. So it really wasn't much of a practical policy that came out of that message. Otherwise, I would like to give a little feedback to SV and Ballo today. They seem to have our offensive here today. Also four years ago, before the election, SV was very high on the track. They said they would fight through a dental reform so that everyone could afford a real dental health. And to go back to the dental report, I must say that SV in that debate was completely toothless!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1095	I'd like to start with the challenge from Gunvald Ludvigsen and take to myself the criticism he comes up with in the dental report, because I just think that I got hurt there to respect that we had a majority rule. Of course, it would have been desirable that the Stortinget had managed to achieve more, but I think that the examples I came with – to Ludvigsen – namely that when we have had various minority governments, the Stortinget has in a completely different way engaged in the issues and so far pressured various minority governments to implement reimbursement arrangements. These are good examples of the Greatness at its best. It is well possible that it is not the Stortinget at its best when presented that so far finance ministers, health ministers and other ministers are willing to go. But the expectations of Gunvald Ludvigsen to me are obviously high, and I'll try to meet them over the last few weeks I have left in this house. With regard to the proposals of the Progress Party, I would like to say that we are now being pushed down with a good deal of representative proposals. The next proposal I am waiting for from the Progress Party is that the Government should take the initiative to get Norwegian astronauts to land on March by 2011! For many of these proposals, there is a total lack of realism in being able to put this in place. One should not have talked to the Dental Association for a long time until one realizes that it is completely unrealistic to imagine reimbursement arrangements entered into an agreement with the government initiative in place on 1 January 2010. I would like to have a debate with Fredriksen in Tabloid or anywhere about how in all the world you think it should be implemented. We in SV have been concerned with realism in what we come with. I agree with the Council of State that we will not have reimbursement arrangements in place in a year, from 2009 to 2010, that cost between 5 and 8 billion kroner. But it's not unrealistic if three parties are willing to do it, to have it in place by 2013. That should be a goal. So it's like this, when you quote Kristin Halvorsen, that SV actually had an ambition to get more in place in this four-year period. Okay, then we got that far now, and then we get to measure how far we get in the next period. To Sonja Sjøli I want to say that I think it's very real of the Right saying that in terms of dental treatment they don't have very high ambitions. We must be able to live with that. At the same time, we have to say that we have it. We want to achieve something. We want to drive this forward. And when we can't get Right with ourselves to drive it forward, you have to try to find other constellations in this house, a type of majority that doesn't include Right, and that makes it possible to achieve change and develop in this field. The clarity that Sonja Sjøli has shown in relation to that, I actually appreciate it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1119	Just two very brief remarks from my side at the very end of the debate. The first is a theme that the interpellant addressed in his second article, and that I didn't respond to, that goes on the relationship with the dental caregivers, which is an important theme. The ministry is currently working on a draft letter of consultation, where we want to facilitate that dental nurses can obtain a self-reimbursement right in Social Security. It will be a very important contribution to making use of the capacity of dental nurses. Today, in certain contexts, dentists can get reimbursement from public health, but it goes through a dentist. You have to be attached to a dentist, while we want to expand the possibilities of a self-reimbursement right in the Social Security system. So both the representative Sjøli and the representative Fredriksen have interpreted me there that I have said that I am canceling the possibility to implement the Workers' Party's programme decision from the national meeting in our spring. That's wrong. To the extent that you have experienced it this way, you have understood it wrong. Of course, I am going with pleasure to vote on that programme. It was just to be lacking if not a health minister was very happy to have such an ambitious party in his back in such an important area as dental health. I'm glad the other two government parties have the same tough, good ambitions. We're going to work very hard on this. What I've said, and as I think is important, is that the way to achieve that goal is by expanding existing arrangements before we set a roof, but it is, as the representative Ballo says, of course fully possible to do both parts during a major period if it is given priority. Then we get through a Soria Moria formula about what becomes the Government's ambition, go into that work of joy and enthusiasm in the next period. I register, as Ballo does, that there is a work that Right shouldn't push us into, but disagrees with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1131	That is when the debate is on case No. Five over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1142	Then the Storting should go to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1149	During the debate, Per-Willy Amundsen has put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to strengthen the employer’s right to control uniform and clothing, so that the employer is free, on the basis of his own assessments of what is compatible with the interests of the enterprise, to contractually attach the personal use of religious or political symbols in the work situation.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1188	During the debate, 23 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Vera Lightcloth on behalf of the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 3–5, by Vera Lightcloth on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left Proposals No. 6–15, by Per-Willy Amundsen, on behalf of the Party for Progress and Right-wing Proposals No. 16 and 17, from Vera Lightcloth on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 18 and 19, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 20, by Vera Lightcloth on behalf of the Right and Left Proposals No. 21-23, from Bent Höie on behalf of the Right There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 21, 22 and 23 from the right. Proposal No. 21 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide free lessons for all children.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1240	There is a vote on proposal No. 20, from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1257	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 18 and 19, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1280	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 16 and 17, from the right, the Christian party, and the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1303	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 6–15, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1375	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1404	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1443	In the course of the debate, 18 proposals have been put forward. It's: proposal No 1, by Jan Bøhler on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, the proposals No. 2-4, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals No. 5 and 6, by Harald T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 7, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 8-16, by Mr T. Nesvik, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party, on proposal No. 17, by Sonja Irene Sjøli, on behalf of the Right and Left motion No. 18, from Gunvald Ludvigsen on behalf of Left There is a vote on proposal No. Eighteen from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a new municipal reform by the Stortinget to set a target for how many municipalities the reform will result, but where the municipalities themselves will determine the new municipal boundaries. The State must undertake to transfer public tasks to the new municipal level, so that the proportion increases from today's 40 per cent to 50 per cent or more.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1481	There is a vote on proposal No. 17, from the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to establish a grant scheme to ensure the same average salary for doctors in hospitals and hospitals.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1495	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8–16 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1561	There is a vote on proposal No. 7, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government calls for action to be taken by the Government to strengthen the system, through improved capacity and organisation for more multidisciplinary cooperation and prevention of health.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1575	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6, from the Advancement Party and the Right. Proposal No. 5 sounds: ‘The Government is asking the Government to establish a real free user choice for each individual, both in the primary and specialist health services, across municipal borders and regional borders.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1595	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–4, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1624	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1684	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's: proposal No 1, by Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen on behalf of the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposal No. 2, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, by Harald T. Nesvik on behalf of the Progress Party There is a vote on proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the inclusion of contract specialists in the free hospital choice system by 1 July 2009.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1710	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to 1. set up an independent contracting body for specialist health services which ensures objective assessments of whether healthcare is to be provided by private or public operators, in the light of the quality and price of the services, 2. encourage private operators to compete with public undertakings to carry out more tasks on behalf of the public health service, both in patient treatment, research and education; 3. liquidate requirements for contracts with regional health establishments as a prerequisite for triggering social security disbursement; and establish a new system to ensure better utilisation of the free capacity of contract specialists and other private operators, as well as good prioritisation and resource use; 4. promote proposals for referral, quality assurance and supervision arrangements replacing current requirements for contracts with regional health establishments for private contract specialists and other private health establishments, in order to enable them to provide publicly funded health services.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1732	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and proposal No. 1, from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Center Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:54 [[2008-2009]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1764	In Case No. No voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-03.ana.ud339e1776	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
