ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e317	The representative Henning Skumsvoll, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. Three permit applications are available: by the Workers' Group on the Welfare Permit of the Representative, Karita Bekkemelm, on 18 and 19 June, of the Workers' Party Group on the Health Allowance of the Representative, Gunn Olsen, on 18 and 19 June, of the Workers' Group on the Health Allowance of the Representative, Thomas Breen, on 18 and 19 June These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first alternate for Hedmark County, Tone Merete Sønsterud, is currently abroad and is therefore prevented from meeting in Stortinget under Thomas Breen's leave. The first alternate of the Telemark County, Lise Wiik, is prevented from meeting in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Gunn Olsens. The following alternates are proposed to meet during the leave period: For the county of Hedmark: Jørgen Olsen For the Mora and Romesdal counties: Svein Gelseth For Telemark County: Sindre Fossum Beyer – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Jørgen Olsen, Svein Gelseth and Sindre Fossum Beyer are present and will take the seat. Before the proceedings are brought, the President will propose that the Stortinget derogate from the provision of the first paragraph of Section 43 of the Rules of Procedure and vote after case No. 1 on the current map has been completed and then total voting on case No. 2 to 48 at the end of the day’s meeting. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e389	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose to limit the exchange of lines to up to three lines with replies following submissions by the main speakers of each party group and parliamentary leaders and five lines with replies from members of the Government. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e394	At its meeting on 5 May the Control Committee unanimously decided to establish a case on the role of the State in the transactions between Aker and Aker Solutions. In this context, the Committee has conducted consultations with the State Councils of Brustad and Andersen – current and former Minister of Industry. The background to the case is the transactions Aker Solutions AS had executed through the purchase of five shares from Aker ASA for approximately NOK 2 billion. Transactions included: Aker Oilfield Services – purchases of shares not already owned by Aker Solutions. The seller was, in addition to the Aker group, DOF Oilfield Services AS. The price of the shares was 878 million. kr. In addition, the repayment of shareholder loans amounted to 154 million. kr. Aker DOF Deepwater - purchase of Akers 50 pst. the share of the shares. The price of the shares was 189 million. kr. Repayment of shareholder loans amounted to SEK 76 million. kr. ODIM – purchase of 33 p.m. of the shares of Aker. The price of the shares was 513 million. kr. Midsund Bruk – purchase of 100 pst. of the shares of Aker. The price was SEK 88 million. Aker Clean Carbon – increase in ownership from 30 to 50 pst. in the case of a corrected issue. The price was 42 million. kr. As I said, the purchases have been priced at an estimated value of less than NOK 2 billion. The stock exchange announcement further showed that the companies in question had an investment programme in the coming years of nearly NOK 3 billion. In the exchange notification dated 2 April, it was stated that the financing of the transactions and the future investments would take place through a new bond loan of approximately EUR 15 million. Two billion dollars. Furthermore, it was said from the company: ‘Aker and Aker Solutions have shown extra care in the negotiations on the companies involved in the transactions. This has been done in line with good practice in related party transactions. A third company, DOF Subsea ASA, is also a party to the transactions.» The case attracted considerable attention when the transactions became known. The background for this was that it was speculated whether the transactions were particularly favourable for Aker ASA. Furthermore, it was claimed from many teams that the proceedings were deficient, that the case had not been dealt with correctly, that the valuation was too low, and that it had not been submitted to the General Assembly of Aker Solutions ASA. The state is, as you know, a significant owner of the Aker group. The background is that an agreement concluded on 22 June 2007 purchased 30 pst. of the shares in Aker Holding AS. The seller was Aker ASA. The measure approved the agreement by decision of 11 December 2007. Thus, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade was authorised to complete the purchase, as stated. St. pp. No 88 for 2006-2007, Staten’s ownership of Aker Holding AS, and Innst. S. No 54 for 2007-2008. The State invested a total of NOK 4 926 917 001 in this transaction. According to the statutes of Aker Holding AS, the sole purpose of the company is to own shares in Aker Kværner ASA. Aker Kværner changed as a known name on 3 April 2008 to Aker Solutions ASA. Aker ASA owns 60 pst. of the shares in Aker Holding, the State of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade owns 30 pst., Saab AB owns 7,5 pst. and Investor AB 2.5 pst. Both of them are part of the Wallenberg sphere. Aker Holding owns 41 pst. of the voting shares in Aker Solutions. The state’s ownership of Aker Solutions ASA is therefore indirect, through Aker Holding. The indirect ownership of the State thus constitutes 12 pst. of the shares in Aker Solutions. The purpose of the government to purchase into the then Aker Kværner was to secure the Norwegian owner's anchoring, to ensure that the head office function remained in Norway, as well as to help maintain Norwegian jobs. This is described as such in St.prp. No 88 for 2006-2007: ‘Aker Kværner ASA manages key future-oriented competence and is a central part of the petroleum industry. There are few owner settings in Norway other than the country that can only help ensure long-term ownership and Norwegian anchoring of Aker Kværner ASA. Agreements ensure the long-term and stability of the country, in cooperation with private industrial owners, on the ownership side for at least 10 years. This provides a good foundation for continued development and industrial exploitation of the company’s knowledge base based on Norway. The agreements provide a basis for Aker Kværner ASA to be developed and managed from Norway for at least 10 years in the future.’ From the proposition, it is also apparent that the principal owner of Aker ASA has made a declaration to maintain the majority ownership of Aker ASA for a period of 10 years. The ownership of Aker Holding is governed by a shareholder agreement between the four owners. The agreement was annexed to the landfill proposal. The agreement requires that the company's board of directors be composed of five members. Aker ASA shall appoint three members, including the Chairperson, the State appoints one member, and Saab and the Investor shall jointly appoint one member. The agreement contains specific provisions requiring the members of the board of Aker Holding AS to agree on certain types of decisions. The shareholders of Aker Holding are thus individually guaranteed negative control, or veto right, over certain decisions in Aker Solutions ASA. Proposals requiring a two-thirds majority, or more, of the Aker Kværner ASAs – now Aker Solutions ASA – General Assembly, shall be dealt with in the Management Board of Aker Holding AS. In the shareholder agreements it is agreed that in such cases, agreement is required between the chairman of the board and the members of the board appointed by the State and the Swedish group of ownership respectively. If this is not achieved, Aker Holding AS shall vote against the current proposal at the General Assembly of Aker Kværner ASA – now Aker Solutions ASA. This ensures that all shareholders of Aker Holding, including the State, have negative control over Aker Kværner’s statutes – that is, Aker Solutions. Similarly, it is agreed that transactions between related parties to Aker Kværner ASA – now Aker Solutions – pursuant to § 3-8 of the Shares Act as well as the pledge and sale of the shares in Aker require the agreement of both the Chairman of the Board and the members of the Board of Directors of the State and the Swedish Group of Owners respectively. Moreover, ordinary decisions are taken by a general majority. In St. prp. No 88 further states that Aker ASA will have a leading role and industrial leadership and control in Aker Holding AS. Furthermore, Aker ASA should facilitate the management of Aker Holding AS according to Aker ASA’s governance model. It is clarified that there will be no direct shareholder relationship between the State and the then Aker Kværner, and that the State will not affect daily operations. It is also said that the Ministry’s financial follow-up must be based on publicly available information from Aker Kværner ASA – now Aker Solutions ASA. So far on the background of the matter. After the exchange announcement on 2 April, there was considerable attention on the matter itself, not least by sending down the shares in Aker Solutions approximately. 15 p.m., and a hedge fund manager believed that the largest owner in Aker used Aker Solutions as a garbage box. Discussions focused mainly on four issues: The first is whether the transaction was properly processed and should have been dealt with at the general meeting. The second is whether the State, Saab and the Investor as minority owners had been adequately informed of the transactions or not, and who, if so, had been responsible for informing the State and the other owners of the pending transactions. The third is whether the transactions were properly priced or not, and thus whether and to what extent the State, Saab and the Investor as minority owners had incurred a significant loss, and last but not least whether the State as owner should have been more active and conscious at the time of the conclusion of an agreement with Aker ASA. Furthermore, there was considerable attention to the fact that the board member Heidi Petersen withdrew from the board of Aker Solutions on the basis of the Aker proceedings relating to the purchases, and that the state’s appointed board member, Berit Kjøll, also withdrew later. After the publication of the stock exchange notice on 2 April, a lot of column space has been used on what has happened, who has said what in which meetings both before and after 2 April. I am not going to go into detail about this, it is explained carefully in the vote and in the annexes, not least the Brustad Council letter to the Committee of 27 April, and also in the stenographic record that is attached. Let me just say that there have been many well-paid assignments for various law firms. The dispute has concerned the interpretation of the shareholder agreement, the treatment of minority shareholders, in other words shareholder democracy, and who is responsible for informing the major shareholders. In addition, the valuations of the companies have been good legal advice. Let me also state that agreement has now been reached between the different owners in Aker in an agreement of 11 May. It was agreed that the case should be addressed to the general meeting, which has just been completed, that the valuation is determined with the support of the Swiss investment bank UBS's valuation, and that it should be clarified in the shareholder agreement how future transactions should take place between related companies. The case has thus been clarified, with regard to the completed and future transactions. We are pleased with that from the majority. However, the case has received a political superstructure, which has resulted in a mistrust proposal from the opposition, and not least unusually strong and – let me also say – partly unreflected in the public debate. It has been said that this was so serious that it required national law. It's been compared to Russian oligarchs. There has been the biggest scandal under the red-green government, some have said, and some have called it political corruption. The representative Sponheim said that this was the most serious matter he had been away during his 16 years at Stortinget. Then the representative Sponheim must have slept well in the hour, because there have certainly been many things that have been significantly bigger and worse than this. The opposition has chosen to promote distrust of Brustad State Council. That's how far I'm able to remember, one of the thinnest mistrust proposals that's traveled here in the house. It doesn't have its reality in the Aker case itself, but it's a lost attempt to appear as if the opposition agreed on something. Let me say that it's not very often the opposition has agreed in the last four years here in the house. The attitude clearly shows that it is only the mistrust proposal that is agreed on, not the content of it. The Progress Party supported as a known country’s involvement in Aker in 2007 and considers that the State has been too active. On the right, the State considers that it has been too passive and has not supported the state's entry into the Aker in 20007. It shows that even on this issue, that is, on the content of the motion of censure, the opposition cracks in all directions. It shows with all possible clarity that there is a tactical assessment behind it, not the government's course of action. That doesn't mean that there's nothing we can learn from the Aker case. The first thing you can learn is that you have to guarantee the quality of the contracts better than the agreement that was concluded in 2007. It has been necessary to clarify the shareholder agreement with respect to related companies. It is easy to understand that this was not the central issue when the state entered Aker in 2007, but the experience has subsequently shown that this should have been done. In the future, especially if you choose this type of design – i.e. with a holding company, whose only task is to own subsidiaries – you will be sure that the board of the holding company is well informed about what is happening, not least the owners. Furthermore, I am pleased that the Department, at the Søberg Council of Ministers, informed at the open hearings that, in the future, it will ensure that representatives of the Electoral Committee are able to meet the wishes of the State, and thus have a greater influence on the choice of the Aker Solutions Board. There is a lesson that should also be used in other contexts, to ensure that the state has greater influence on the companies in which it is owned. The next thing you can learn is that you need to clarify how information flows between big companies and big owners. I note that there has been a divergent view of this between the board of directors and the group manager on the one hand and the minority shareholders on the other, whether information on the company's strategic or industrial arrangements has been satisfactory, both in terms of scope, content and not least who should be informed. If this is a real disagreement or a situational disagreement, I shall leave it unsaid, but for the future this should be settled in advance, not in retrospect. But there is a basis for believing that this is a situational disagreement when you know that Aker has used three legal assessments as a basis for not presenting the matter to the general meeting. That gives a clue as to where to find the answer. In the minutes of the owner’s meeting of Aker Holding on 13 March 2009, the Ministerial Council of Søberg stressed the need for ‘clean internal transactions, both in the context of Aker Solutions announced purchases of Aker Oilfield Services and in general’. However, in a letter to the committee of the group leader, Öyvind Eriksen, Aker ASA, it says: ‘We could hardly see the attention of the Council of Ministers as different from that of the Board of Directors – and not the owners – in Aker Holding to which we were to deal.’ This contrasts with the Department's clarification to the Committee that it is common for the Chairman or Executive Director to come and inform owners of matters of strategic interest or of importance to the company. I quote: ‘... the most common thing in the kind of case is that the Chairman and/or Group Manager of the Board of Directors comes to us’. This was expressed by the State Council of Brustad in the open hearing. The answer given by the Ministry of Industry and Trade to the Committee in letter of 3 June 2009 is the same. It says: ‘Share laws have no provisions specifically requiring the board and administration to communicate information to owners outside group relationships. However, it is common practice in Norwegian companies that companies themselves inform and involve the owners in important matters by the board of directors or the management of the day-to-day management.’;» It is made clear from the Council of State and the Department to the Committee that it is the responsibility of the company to inform and involve large owners in ownership matters, and, as the Council of State says, this is the thing to be sorted out, so that for the future we can count on this not to be a challenge. We are very pleased with this clarification and assume that the disunity and ambiguity that has been on these issues will be resolved for the future, either by explicitly clarifying the agreements you make, or by other appropriate means. At my discretion, of course, large owners are involved and included in decisions of a large industrial or strategic nature. I believe that all major owners in the Norwegian business community agree that this should be the case, and the country as a large owner should not, of course, be treated differently from other major owners who also require information before major strategic and industrial decisions are taken. The third thing you can gain experience in this matter is to emphasize how important it is that the state has an active and conscious ownership. There is an overall committee which considers the matter to be illustrative of the need to clarify the country's clear expectations as to the extent of company information of a strategic or industrial nature, how to inform the State, who should be informed, and not least the timing of such information. Furthermore, the Committee stresses the need for the active and clear participation of the State which owns, in line with other industrial owners, with clear, well-founded and independent positions relating to major strategic and industrial dispositions in the company, in other words an active and conscious ownership for the benefit of companies and for the benefit of society. What is particularly gratifying is that there is an overall committee that supports these comments, which shows that the State that owns must have an active and conscious position in the companies, which means that the State can no longer be regarded as a towing partner in another way, but that the State has a conscious and active relationship with its ownership. I am also very pleased that the state is a significant owner in Norwegian business. The fact that long-term, non-quarterly ownership gives companies the opportunity for long-term strategic industrial development is important for large companies, not least in turbulent times. That the state bought into Aker Kværner in its time was a correct decision. This case shows that ownership is constantly being challenged and requires an active and conscious state. In this way, the case of transactions between Aker and Aker Solutions has been a useful review of the country's involvement in business. Furthermore, it is not given – and that is the second part of it – that the country's involvement is of greater benefit to the state. You don't know that. It could be that the companies that have become partners here are good, industrial companies that have great opportunities in the future. Let me conclude by saying that the motion of censure promoted against the Brustad Council of State, in my opinion, is syllable and not substantively justified in this matter. I've explained that in detail. The opposition is, of course, in its full right to promote mistrust, and so do they. But it is with equal satisfaction I can say that we will reject the proposal from the position. State Council Brustad and the Government have done a good job in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e524	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e527	The rapporteur said in his speech that there has been an active ownership exercised by the Council of State Sylvia Brustad. How could it be that all the others in the board of Aker Holding and Aker Solutions did not perceive – either at the owner's meeting on 13 March, where most of the information was available – that the state, as an active owner, wanted this to be dealt with in the general meeting of Aker Solutions ASA, as a matter of its own, and thus be presented to Aker Holding's board of directors and thereby also to the owners? After all, it has only been claimed that you should have an active ownership, and that this should have been dealt with in the General Assembly of Aker Solutions. Does not this fact show that there is mere postwar clock on the part of the Council of State and that she did not really want active ownership early in the company's history, to which everyone else could be aware?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e534	What I have now explained in detail is how the matter has actually been dealt with. It turns out that there have been divergent views from the company and the shareholders on how matters should actually be dealt with, not least on how the information should flow. As I explained, the director of Aker ASA, Øyvind Eriksen, has said that he has dealt with the board, and not the owners, and in that way the owners have not received the information that we have subsequently received. I believe that a good lesson from this is that large owners should be informed. There is no doubt that the other big owners have also been of the same opinion. Both the investor and Saab have criticised the process that Aker had set up, namely that the case did not automatically go to the general meeting in Aker Solutions, so that one could have access to the transactions. I also think it is gratifying that there is an overall committee that is behind a comment – that is, a lead – that the state should have an active and conscious ownership of this. In the future, I expect that before concluding this type of comprehensive agreement in which the state purchases, you will ensure that you do not have this kind of loophole that exists in the shareholder agreement. There is a loophole in the shareholder agreement that makes it possible not to let this go to the general meeting, and that's what Aker used to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e543	It was at least something that the case-rapporteur – and the main speaker for the government parties – said in his speech that there has been confusion about the form of communication between the Ministry of Industry and the Aker group. So, not at any time during the whole process, the Aker Group felt that their job was to inform the Ministry of Industry directly, as well as the information provided by the board and the government representative on the board. So a joint committee -- the interesting thing is not that the opposition says it, but that the government parties also say that «the case illustrates the need for clarification of the country’s clear expectations as to who has obligations to inform and the time of such information». [[...]] My question to the representative, Djupedal, is this: At what time has Djupedal seen that it was made clear to the owner during the process that such a double communication was sought – i.e. both government representation and direct information to the ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e555	As indicated in the setting, and as I also said in my post, this is an unclear point. Whether this is deliberate disagreement or deliberate ambiguity, or whether it's situational, I'll be a little careful to say. But I think it's right to say that even when Per-Christian Foss was in government, it was common for the state to be informed about large industrial decisions in companies in which the state was owned. It has been explained by the Council of State to the Committee, both in writing and orally, that this is a common practice and that the Ministry of Economic Affairs is continually dealing with such enquiries from companies. The Council of State has also explained individual cases where this has happened – for Akers not least related to the name change, as it went from Aker Kværner to Aker Solutions. The state was under hand informed that there was a process going on. That means that this is the normal thing. So it turns out that this case is not quite common. At our discretion – and that is why this is written in – it is necessary to clarify how the information from a company to large owners should be. So here Aker has said that they have informed the government, while we want them to inform the owners.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e562	Since the acquisition in June 2007, the share price of what is now called Aker Solutions has fallen. The Christian People’s Party then asked if this was a wise investment. We have now received an answer to that, and rarely have we been so tired because we have got it right. The consequence is that government funds have saved the shareholders of Aker Solutions for a loss of $3 billion, and Smoking is so far saved for a loss of $2 billion. The wallpaper alone is the same size as the Government's poverty stake. Then we were made aware, via TV 2, that there was also a plan for a split-up between Smoke and the state of a large oil company. Fortunately, the government didn't. My questions are: Is the representative happy that the government did not go even further? Is the representative satisfied with the manner in which state ownership is exercised? Is that how he wants it and see to it that state ownership should be exercised?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e571	As the representative Sørfönn of course well knows for many years here in the house, the state has so far not lost one penny. The stock price has been properly sent down – it was sent down 15 p.m. after these transactions became known. After that, the course has gone up, but now there are generally quite difficult exchange times. That means to measure this case in isolation only because of this individual case you cannot. In a longer-term perspective, it is well possible that these five companies in which the State is now resident are good industrial companies that yield good returns to the State. You don't know that. What is the purpose of state ownership is also long-term. That means you can't measure the government's gain or loss on a single point and say that we have lost NOK 3 billion or, for that matter, won NOK 2 billion. We justify our desire for long-term state ownership, not quarterly hysteria. Aker should know that the state is sitting there as a long-term owner, who is involved in both the uphill and the downhill. Right now there has been a downturn, but it can be quite a turn. So that's right, as the last question indicates: are we 100 percent satisfied with state ownership? No, an overall committee believes that it should be more active, more conscious. This means that in the future, before concluding such extensive agreements as this, we must ensure that we do not have any loopholes in the agreement that can be used by anyone. But basically, we and I from the position are very satisfied with the state involvement in Aker. It's important for Aker, and it's important for the Norwegian community.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e578	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e582	The case rapporteur has gone through the setting thoroughly, so I will not repeat much of it. Fortunately, it is rare that there is such a distance between the realities of a case and the language used, and the criticism that is raised, as it is in this case. I don't think there's ever been a motion of censure in this room that to those degrees lacks a factual reason, like this. Among the reasons for the mistrust proposal that Højres Per-Kristian Foss used when it was presented in the hiking hall was that the Council of State should conduct a media-driven ownership policy. The Council of State should have responded to the large-scale transactions between related companies in the Aker system only when this was criticised in the media. This production must at best be due to a shift in the memory of the representative Foss. After all, he must have completely forgotten the violent criticism of his own party trap, Right-wing nutritionist Torbjørn Hansen, presented at the entrance to and in what was to be the ‘silent week’ before the Easter feast. First, the representative, Hansen, used the term ‘candal’ and demanded a comprehensive, independent review. He then used the term ‘political corruption’ to describe the agreement that a broad majority here in Stortinget saw as an important move to ensure that Aker Kværner then remained a Norwegian-based and Norwegian-controlled company. The day after the attacks on the state council were further escalated. At that time ‘political corruption’ was not even sufficient, then what we must call the nuclear weapons of politics was brought up: the law of the Empire. What was the rationale? Well, the Aker Solutions exchange rate had fallen and the Council of State had allegedly wasted taxpayers' money. That the stock exchange price of another company in which the state is much heavier inside, Norsk Hydro, had fallen over the same period to a quarter of the top listing before the financial crisis, fortunately never has this kind of senseless accusations come about, as we also heard in the reply from Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn. This illustrates the main point. On the right, the criticism of the Aker transactions that had been raised in the media saw as an opportunity for rematch after the state entered and ensured that a traditional and important environment of competence with forward-looking growth opportunities would remain on Norwegian hands and Norwegian-based. When you don't get answers from the voters for your own policy, as the polls give clear evidence for a long time, it's a good right tradition to criticise the Workers' Party and the Government instead. And when the factual basis for criticism is weak, the use of words becomes more powerful and juicier. Right-wing criticism of this point also affects the Progress Party, which supported the state's entry into Aker Kværner. So this can't be a good contribution to the platform that the Right Hope is going to bring them back into the government offices after the election, like the Progress Party's little brother. While the Right threatened the State Council with national law, the Carl I. Hagen of the Progress Party believed that the Council of State should have respected the Easter stillness. For what was it he criticized the Council of State for? Well, she didn't dismiss the entire criticism that the state's ownership of these transactions was so small, about 60 million. kr, that if they were to show off, it was little to care about. So, in the opinion of the Progress Party, the Council of State was not to care about dealing with the violent criticism and accusations from the Right. Well, the Progress Party has become twice as big as the Right in the polls, but a State Council cannot allow itself to be so arrogant to a party as the Hagen representative here prescribes, even though the party is less than one's own. One might wonder how the Right would have reacted in the Easter week if the Council had done as Hagen recommended. Now, the federal weapon had already been developed, so the next one might have been a stand. You'd be sure to play the "Arrogance Card". If there is something that has been media-driven in this matter, it has been Right-wing behaviour, not the Council of State. At present, the reason for the mistrust proposal is that the Council of State showed a lack of involvement in the transactions. But in a separate comment from the Progress Party in the setting, it says: ‘In the opinion of these members, it would have been entirely possible, and perhaps most reasonable, by Brustad State Council to refrain from commenting when she became acquainted with the acquisition of shares and the statements made in the media.’ So what the Progress Party really thinks is that the Council of State should be completely passive. Nevertheless, the party supports a motion of censure on the grounds that the Council of State was not active enough. We are well beginning to get used to the fact that the Progress Party changes its position when they think it can be appropriate, but changing the position from one column to the next on the same page in a position in such a serious matter as a mistrust proposal, must almost be a new record. The government's reaction, and rightly so, was the deficient process leading up to the decisions of the Aker Holding Board on 2 April on five transactions and a bond loan between the Aker system related. The council never claimed that this could not be industrially reasonable or that the price was wrong. But the deficiencies in the process leading up to the decision were what was criticised, and for good reason. The lack of information about four of the transactions and the bond loan was not in line with the intentions of the cooperation agreement. It was also not in line with what is common between companies and large owners. Therefore, the other partner in Aker Holding, Saab and Investor also reacted. And the board member Heidi M. Petersen of Aker Solutions ASA went off in response to how this had been handled. So in addition, Aker Solutions' own audit committee has concluded that the transactions should be better anchored. I assume that the audit committee in Aker can hardly be said to act on behalf of the Government here. This clearly shows that the motion of censure has a purely political justification that is on the side of the Council of State's action in this matter. A motion of censure shall always be taken seriously. That is why, in this motion of censure, it is a signal to the outside world that unfortunately is also serious. Because by rolling out the second strongest gunshot the opposition is over, against the Council of State, there is an acquittal of the act of the largest owner in this company used in this case. What this opposition is saying is that as long as you're likely to be on the right side of a legal balance sheet on a sluggish line, it's all right to set aside the other shareholders in such extensive transactions between related parties. And then I'm not just thinking about the state and Saab/Investor, but the 60 pst. other owners of Aker Solutions. But even though the kiss gives a right to such a balance, I believe that ethics does not. It is not in line with good governance to act in this way towards the shareholder community. The political environment should also gather on the opposite signal, namely that shareholder democracy should be taken seriously. Small and large shareholders shall be treated equally. This is particularly the case when what happens may raise questions as to whether one or some of the shareholders has been assigned. Then the representative Foss will defend himself that our task is to control the Council of State and not Aker. But that doesn't mean that the violent criticism that the opposition is raising here because the Ministry of Economic Affairs didn't ask and dug if there could be anything more that they're not informed about, when they were close up to the board meeting, informed that there was not only one transaction – which was known for a long time – but two transactions, and stressed that these were to be handled in line with the shareholder agreement. This does not even qualify for a sin of omission. I don't think the opposition can believe that the Councils of State in the Ministry of Economic Affairs hereafter, i.e. at regular intervals, have to question the companies in which the State owns, if they are to avoid mistrust proposals against themselves. The information from Aker Solutions' administration and board of directors in this case was clearly deficient and a breach of what has been, and which should be, the normal. It has been charged by the company’s own audit committee, as mentioned above, and it is also admitted that the shareholder agreement should now be adjusted to avoid hiding behind different understandings at this point in the future. Therefore, this point of the Committee's comments, which the rapporteur also referred to, is not a criticism of the Council of State, as interpreted in the media when the vote was known. There is an experience gained through this matter. And one of the purposes of the control committee's work is to gain experience in order to make good administration even better. The right started, as said, this matter of threatening national law. So the opposition has gone down one step on the reaction scale. That's something. But there is no doubt that there is behind Right's violent criticism in this matter, from Easter and through the suspension, the party's opposition to the state entering Aker Kværner in its time. The Christian People's Party also refers to its opposition to this in its comments. Through the transactions that were made and the immediate reaction of the market to them, these parties believed to get some kind of evidence that they were right. The manner in which the transactions were executed, with a lack of anchoring, is used as further evidence that one should stay away. But this view is not shared by the Progress Party, which supported the State's agreement on the matter. It is therefore possible to snort a common mistrust proposal on this basis, but there is no basis for snoring a government platform. That is why I think the opposition is pleased that the vote later today does not give a majority in favour of the proposal. They follow that which had then come if it had happened, I think the same parties had not looked forward to with the same enthusiasm that they have expressed in the criticism of the Government in this matter, almost three months before the voters should say theirs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e642	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e645	Svein Roald Hansen's defense of the Council of State Sylvia Brustad is based on the fact that in the situation that has occurred, Aker is – let's call it – the villain. Aker should have understood that they were not only to inform the government’s board member in Aker Holding, but also the department directly. How does Svein Roald Hansen think it corresponds to the lack of active ownership that Sylvia Brustad showed before April 3rd? If there was a clear position on the part of the state that the department should be informed of what is claimed to be major transactions of strategic importance, how in the world could it be that the whole Aker system and the rest of the Aker Holding regime had not understood this? That's what our criticism is. Does not Svein Roald Hansen agree that it is totally unacceptable that a Council of State has behaved so that that attitude has not really been perceived by other board members in Aker Holding and by the management of Aker Solutions ASA?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e652	What is common in such cases is that it is the head of the board and the company's administration that manages the information to large owners about significant matters, not the individual board member. Each member of the board is jointly responsible for the company and has no special information responsibility towards those who have appointed the member of the board. And that's what it has to be, because in most companies it's an election committee that appoints the board members. Although in this case there is a directly elected member of the board of Aker Holding, it does not change that principle, and that is the principle that the Aker system did not relate to, and therefore the information did not become good enough, and wide enough, to act in time enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e657	I am sorry if we have destroyed the Easter holidays of the representative of Sven Roald Hansen, but it was well known to the Government that these transactions would be adopted, Friday before Easter. I believe this is such a special case that there are questions about the relationship between the Workers' Party and the main owner of Aker. So the government spends NOK 5 billion of the common fund on investing in a small holding company, dominated by a private business operator. Purchases take place without an independent financial advisor, which is historic. Experts believe that the price is too high, private shareholders get different terms. There is a shareholder agreement that is deficient and that is not proper for the state, and we have a prime minister who celebrates the pioneer on TV, while the government sits passively and observes that these internal transactions in the billions class take place between Aker and a company in which the state owns. How is it possible for a single economic operator to receive that kind of treatment, while everyone else is taxed by this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e666	Now the representative told Hansen that it was known that these transactions would take place. It is basically the core of this matter. What was known for a long time was that you wanted to buy up in Aker Oilfield Services. This was known and communicated. The owner’s meeting also informed about this Aker DOF Deepwater, but the other three transactions and a bond loan were not communicated and informed about. Then the state does not have the basis for acting, as they did afterwards when this became known through the exchange notification. It's this opposition that jumps elegantly and smoothly over and where the lack of information lies. That's the experience with Aker, that they haven't acted like they're used to. Therefore, it is necessary to clarify the agreement and to ensure that at least there is no claim that there are misunderstandings on the basis of which a similar situation should arise.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e673	The Christian People's Party appreciates that there is now broad political consensus that Aker-saka has shown the need for an active and conscious ownership policy by the state, in line with the ownership message. This is in stark contrast to the State Council Dag Terje Andersen said in 2007. On questions from me whether it would have been considered to purchase a larger shareholding in order to have a greater impact on the company when one had first decided to enter Aker Solutions, Andersen gave an answer that could only be interpreted so that it was not interesting, because Aker should have control, while the state should be a passive party. Luckily, there's a whole other signal now. The question is: does the representative of Hansen agree that Brustad's state council had a demanding starting point with the shareholder agreement that Andersen had negotiated, but that Brustad should at the same time be extra vigilant and active in the follow-up to ownership in the light of the gaps in this agreement?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e682	Brustad County Council had a demanding starting point because the Aker system did not behave the way one should behave in providing information. And one did not behave the way one should behave in order to ensure that the whole shareholder community has the opportunity to be informed of such extensive transactions, in particular because it is between related companies, as in this case. Therefore, this case should have been run at the General Assembly of Aker Solutions, as it has also been after the Council of State intervened. – That is the demanding starting point. I don't think it's possible to construct a shareholder agreement, as you did in 2007, which prevents you from choosing to let the transactions go to a subsidiary, Aker Solutions AS instead of Aker Solutions ASA. I think that would be a demanding legal exercise, to secure influence down through the corporate structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e689	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e692	Let me first take up the proposal of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, which is included on page 12 of the vote. This matter actually began in public space on 3 April with a first page in today's business, where there were major headlines and dramatic claims that Kjell Inge Smoke had overturned some bad companies and large loans to the state without really being informed. As the matter has been debated in the media and also emerged at the Committee's hearings and in the vote, it can be seen that the first media releases were relatively erroneous. I think that at that time it would be natural for the Council of State to go thoroughly into the shareholder agreement, go thoroughly into the transactions, go thoroughly into what the state had actually received from increased responsibility, and then behaved relatively calmly and controlled. The reality is that the State's indirect holding in Aker Solutions ASA is 12 pst. Kjell Inge Røkkes is far higher, so he still has a primary responsibility for what was moved from other companies and into Aker Solutions ASA. 12 pst.Oh, my God! The media gave the impression that Aker Solutions was about 100 pst. state-owned company that had taken over all the problems completely. It's one of the first critics of the Council of State on our part, that she didn't get settled in public space that this had a completely different consequence for the state than the single thing claimed in the media articles. So if from the beginning of Dag Terje Andersen's side it would have been desirable to do what Svein Roald Hansen now claims is normal in business, namely, that the director and group manager have a responsibility to inform large owners, then in the case of a shareholder agreement, it would have been broken down. Why was it not a point in the shareholder agreement that the state, as a result of its holding in Aker Holding on 30 p.m. and in Akers Solutions on 12 p.m., in addition to being treated equally with other shareholders, would information be provided by the group manager and the board of directors of Aker Solutions ASA? I think that is very critical if that is what the State wanted. My opinion is that the state has never wanted that. The state created a structure together with Aker and the two Swedish owners – Aker Holding – which was to be a holding company, which would then only exercise the power of vote in Aker Solutions ASA by 40 pst. Then it's quite natural that Aker has realized that the state did not really want to be a very active owner who would participate in the business arrangements and the business strategic choices. That state bought the shares for in Aker Holding, had one purpose – that was also why the Progress Party supported this purchase – and it was to ensure that Aker Solutions ASA remained on Norwegian hands with head office in Norway for ten years. It was not meant to be actively involved and to make business assessments. That is why this went via a holding company, which was only to decide on what was to be dealt with at the general meeting of Aker Solutions ASA. But it was known to the state, and well for everyone else through stock exchanges and reports, that at the meeting in Aker Solutions ASA it was considered to buy Aker Oilfield Services. It's true that this is one of several companies, but it's probably about. 80 pst. of the total transaction, and at the owner’s meeting on 13 March they were informed that there was also another company that brought this up in 90 p.m. of the total value. I agree that there are questions about the bond loan. But when the state in the owner's meeting becomes familiar with 90 pst. of the content of a transaction, are there really the last three companies, which together make up 10 p.m., which in reality makes the State feel that this should be at the General Assembly of Aker Solutions ASA? It makes no sense that the last 10 pst. is so crucial that this should have been at a general meeting. It had to be sufficient to know about one company, 80 pst., and the DOF in addition to 10 pst. In this case, the Departmental Council of Søberg should have said that this is such a big, strategic and important thing that this must be done at the General Assembly of Aker Solutions ASA, and thus brought to the board of directors of Aker Holding. The presentation made by Svein Roald Hansen and the Advocate General here is entirely illogical. The State was well aware of most of this transaction in respect of dollars, and only said that it would follow the shareholder agreement. And that was Aker's perception that they were doing all the time, as shown by the letter to the committee from the group manager, Øyvind Eriksen in Aker ASA. So if Sylvia Brustad had actually subdued this down, instead of giving strong critical views on Aker ASA's position on these issues and criticising strongly also the head of Aker Solutions ASA's board of directors and group leader, I don't think the matter had become of great importance. There are also questions about whether this is such a big and strategic purchase that they really belong in the Aker Solutions ASA general meeting. Then you have to look at the size of the company and how many actions are done in relation to the totality of the company, and then there is also a big question as to whether this is so big and of such strategic importance that it should be there. I note that here are the divided views. But part of our main criticism of Sylvia Brustad is that she has done nothing. If you were to say that she should have an active ownership, as it is claimed, the active ownership has been non-existent until April 3rd this year when this case exploded in today's business life. That's what our criticism is. If she herself believes that she has been an active owner, she has not been. There is a discrepancy between what is claimed in retrospect and what is claimed in the past. She had not prepared the grounds for being indignant and cursed when she had not made sure that Aker Solutions' management and board was aware that they had an information obligation directly to the department. It's something the Council of State has come up with in retrospect. It is a critical office of a Council of State, and is the background for us, together with others, to promote the motion of censure. That's the assignment to the Council of State we have to check. And here, state councils have dramatically changed their exercise of ownership in Aker Holding in the middle of a public process. It's not acceptable for a government council to do. If a state council wants to appear active, and that's her attitude to be active, then she must be active from the day one, not choose to make it known after there's become a matter that actually explodes in the media. It is this change that is the background to the fact that the performance of the duties has not actually been acceptable. Then we have pointed out in our own note that the Progress Party voted in favour of this purchase. It was to ensure Norwegian ownership, and because we wanted the head office of a significant technologically advanced company to be in Norway. We don't like the tendency to become a country where a lot of companies are controlled from headquarters abroad – that we just have to have that kind of company. There we disagree with other civil parties, but we stand by that. And we think that this was actually secured in this case through the shareholder agreement that ensures that neither Aker nor the State can sell their shares until ten years have passed. That would make sense. The second thing that we criticise the Council of State is that her public statements greatly contributed to the company’s problems. She created with strong statements doubts whether there was a qualified management in Aker Solutions ASA – she created strong doubts, and said almost immediately that she had been tricked by the other large company, Aker ASA, who owns 60 pst. by Aker Solutions ASA, and it creates negative attitudes to the company. It cannot be a point for an owner to make public statements that contribute to the fall in share prices, the weakening of trust in the company's board of directors and management, the reduction of reputation and the creation of the impression that another shareholder, with whom one has a shareholder agreement, is not, in reality, acting in accordance with what one can say is ethical and normal rules. But when one has acted in accordance with the shareholder agreement, because there has been nothing in the shareholder agreement on prior information from the director and group manager to the indirect minority shareholder by 12 p.m., then the council has actually shown an office that we find to be inadequate and unacceptable. There are many government councils that we think are doing a bad political job, because we are simply in opposition to the Government – per. we do not have such great confidence in any of the councils, but we never use mistrust suggestions unless something has happened, and that is what we believe has happened in this matter. The government's handling of this matter, the central reverse operation, and the conclusion of an agreement that, in effect, made the extraordinary General Assembly of Aker Solutions ASA a pure play, is an act that is not acceptable, even from a Council of State from a party to which we are opposed. That is why we stand by what we have written in our position, and we stand by our proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e720	The representative Carl I. Hagen has taken up the suggestion he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e726	The representative Hagen used most of his intervention to repeat the criticism he raised in the Passover, and which lies in the special remark from the Progress Party, that the Council of State should remain calm. He goes very far in showing a great deal of understanding that Aker did not really inform, because it was not written with – almost to say – lowercase enough letters in the shareholder agreement. What is the situation, is that the Council of State gets mistrust proposals against it, not because she has broken some law, not because she has not complied with the information obligation of the Stortinge, which is not an unusual basis, and not because she has not followed up the decision to collapse. I think it must be the first time a councillor gets mistrust proposals against her for the way she has acted in the public room. How does Carl I. Hagen think you should be able to act on an information that you have not received, as Hagen demands that the Council of State should have done?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e733	What I'm saying is that when she later says she should have received information, and it's not in the agreement, the accusation that both Svein Roald Hansen and the State Council have addressed the Aker system is made on a false basis. It has never been in the shareholder agreement or has been told by the board member of the Aker Holding Board, from the government representative, that information should be provided. She has no right to complain in the public room that she has not received information, because she was never supposed to receive information. That's my point. And then she pretended in the middle as if she was being tricked, pretending that there are others who have made serious mistakes – that is, due to others. That, I think, is an unacceptable exercise of office by a Council of State. I assume that we all agree that we should assess the performance of the duties of all government councils. When political opponents go from being – let's say – bad and weak, to becoming unacceptable state councils because they degrade the state's interests, and not being able to show that the state that owns must act correctly, it is quite natural and the only right thing to make a mistrust proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e738	Let me first say that I am very pleased with the desire of the Progress Party that the state should be the owner of Norwegian business. That is a positive attitude. That means that the Progress Party in this case agrees with the Government, and that is good. What's more worrying, on the other hand, is that you disagree very much on the civil side. This is just one of the very many points where the bourgeois parties are diametrically opposite each other. While Hagen's party believes that the state should sit with ownership, the other bourgeois parties believe that it is an abomination and wants the state out. That would be another example of what civil chaos we can face if they were to have a majority for the harvest, but now let it lie. My question is more about the principle of this, not exactly related to the Aker case as such. Given a situation where the Council of State in the Ministry of Economic Affairs is from the Advancement Party, wouldn't it be natural if a company in which the State was owned had intended to make a larger transaction, to contact the Ministry of Ownership and to inform about what one was going to do? Would not Hagen think that it had been a natural and wise way to manage ownership, to be in dialogue with their owners?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e745	I might want to accept that challenge from Øystein Djupedal and talk about the future, but I'm going to be able to resist it because I'm not the one who decides on the future of the Progress Party. It's completely different that Øystein Djupedal might have to ask the question. I agree that we have this matter under consideration. I can't really see that when there has been no notice to the Chairman and Group Manager of Aker Solutions ASA to provide information, neither in the shareholder agreement, in previous communications, in owner meetings, or from the government representative of Aker Holding, when it has never been mentioned, despite knowing about 80-90 p.m. Of these transactions, I see no reason why Aker Solutions' board of directors and the group manager of themselves would suddenly find out about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e752	Carl I. Hagen used much of his contribution to stress that the state was intended to have a passive role as the owner of Aker Holding, and that one should have stayed away from commenting on the transactions that occurred, and asked questions as to whether they were large enough to have happened. Does Carl I. Hagen agree that the state must at all times take care of both its own values, not least because it represents the resources of the community, and that it must also take care of the shareholder community? When there are then major doubts about the transactions between related companies in the same sphere of interest, is there not only a right but also an obligation for the Council of State to intervene in order to clean up?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e757	No, then it is an obligation for the Council of States to assess how she will exercise the country's ownership. If she wanted to exercise it very actively, be extraordinarily informed, as a 12 pst.-minority victory indirectly in Aker Solutions ASA, she would have made sure that the chairman and group leader were aware of it, that they knew about it. She didn't. She invented this activity after they asked questions in the press. No one knows why. It was probably a Mr. Eilertsen who first claimed that he had sent over some bad business and bad companies and used the others as a garbage box. What interest did he have in creating that impression in the public space? There are many who can have their agendas. There, the Council of State has to respect the values of the state, that's absolutely right. By the way she did it, she reduced the value. Now you have to rebuild the reputation of Aker Solutions ASA and the Aker Group overall after the Council of State has helped to reduce the reputation of this company. That is what we deeply regret that she did.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e762	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e765	This is a control case dealing with the transactions related to the relationship between the Ministry of Industry and Aker and Aker Solutions. The audit case has concluded with a strong criticism of the government's office. In this way I share the review of this part of the case with the representative Hagen. It is not a matter of exoneration of Aker, as was said by the representative of the largest government party. We have not dealt with the Share Act, and we have not dealt with minority protection in the Share Act. It may be that, as many in the public debate have recently spoken, there is a need for a strengthening, but it is up to the Government to make such a play. We have also not treated Aker's treatment of minority shareholders in general. There has been no case for the control committee. Therefore, there is no basis for drawing such conclusions as the representative Svein Roald Hansen did. We have also not dealt with what Stortinget has treated before, in 2007, namely the purchase of these shares, but a little look at the purchase might explain some of the behaviour of the Ministry of Economic Affairs. I guess you could say that it -- let's call it -- rainbow alliance that made up the majority to buy, everything from the Progress Party via the Center Party and the Workers' Party to SV, since in this room, in the past, has not expressed quite unambiguous views about state ownership, to say it a little cautiously. That is why this confusion has also affected the state's behaviour in the matter. If that, initially, can be seen as a mitigating circumstance, I would like to accept that, but it is not the case for the control committee in this round. The main criticism of an overall opposition is divided into two parts: The state never clarified the requirement for a two-track communication with Aker, i.e. that one would have information behind the government representative's back as well as the information given to the government representation. The state's reaction to Aker was highly critical, both of the failure sins committed when there was no response, and of the overreaction that occurred afterwards. Whether the over-reaction was media-driven or not, I'm going to leave it in this context, but there was, after all, a significant coincidence between the fact that the matter was known and criticized in the media, and the fact that the Council of State got on the track, as it says, with quite strong statements. First of all, the first relationship, the communication. What the rapporteur says is that information is used both directly to the owner and through the designated government representation of the State. Well, well, common and common – at least it is not more common than that the government parties in the setting are also considering asking for clarification. It cannot be very common when there is a need to clarify even on the part of the government parties. During the hearing, we asked questions about the timing of this process – which started last September, and ended with a decision on 30 March, announced one day later – the Ministry of Economic Affairs clearly expressed the desire for such direct communication in addition to the information provided by the representative of the Governing Board. We never got an answer. I also asked if the council could quote from the ownership message presented by this government, where this double communication is also made clear. We have not received any quotes, and I look forward with excitement to the statements of the Council of State, if she has now found better quotes from the ownership message that show that this is made clear. Because I assume that Aker, as a large, socialist, socially engaged group, is familiar with the Government's ownership message. It is our opinion that the main responsibility for this lack of clarity – and now I am not using my own expression, it was Djupedal who used the term «unclearness» about this – lies in the ministry's handling of the matter. It is those who have to bear a primary responsibility for this, and that primary responsibility lies on the Council of State. So to part 2 of the criticism, which is therefore about the Council's handling of the matter when it was being dealt with in the Aker group. On 18 September, it became known for the first time that transactions were planned. Not all companies were mentioned at that time, but companies that currently account for the bulk of the transactions were mentioned. Then, at the owner's meeting, it was also informed about this later. There wasn't all the companies, but as Hagen said, Aker Oilfield Services, who was about 80 pst. by the transaction, was then known. Representatives of the company have underlined that they explicitly asked if more information was needed, and never received any question from the Ministry of Industry. It was not the case that the Ministry of Economic Affairs had to run to Aker every day – no one expects – and ask if they have anything new again, but in the owner’s meeting held by the new CEO, they were explicitly asked if they needed more. No response came from the Ministry of Industry. And that's according to the Ministry of Economic Affairs' own report from the owner's meeting. Until the decision itself was taken, the Ministry of Industry had the opportunity to ask for further information. They had the ability to engage in independent financial expertise to assess those transactions. Then you can discuss whether it will be passivity or activity, but I think at least that as long as you have invested NOK 5 billion, even using the veto requires you to follow along and assess whether the value of the investments in this way is being strengthened, degraded, or if there is something in between. There, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has considerable internal expertise, but in all similar cases in the past, with larger transactions, independent expertise has been involved in getting an assessment of this. The need to engage an independent company to assess the transactions saw the Ministry of Economic Affairs only afterwards. Pareto, who is the only company that has assessed this and has not had close business relations with Aker in the past, gave the Ministry of Economic Affairs assessments after the decision was taken – not during the decision-making process, but afterwards. I think that's an office that is not a good care of a large investment that 5 billion kroner in Aker represent. So the Ministry of Economic Affairs could act, do things in advance, and even ask for a postponement of the decision in order to have things evaluated in greater detail. I would have a considerable understanding of that. But when the decision was made, the contract was signed, then they reacted with – as I see it – a strong overreaction, namely being cursed and a number of other shell words, which I am not going to repeat here from the pulpit. However, at that time the agreement was binding. What, then, did one have to achieve, more than six weeks of violent media action, which has obviously also damaged Aker's jobs, and which I do not seem to have strengthened confidence in the state's ownership either? And then you ended up accepting what you had been cursed at first. Then you say afterwards that it was just the process you were cursed at. Well, why did the Council of State use an expression like that one should consider ‘zero’ the transaction? It is not a matter of treatment at a general meeting where the State is not represented. It is simply a matter of zeroing an agreement, which was already signed. This does not strengthen confidence that there is expertise that predominates in the state's ownership. That is the second part of the main reason for the proposal that is now being put forward. A mistrust proposal is rare. It's a powerful tool. In my opinion, this is a proposal which has been made after careful consideration, with good factual justification in deficient, highly critical terms of office. There is also an overall committee that actually summarises ownership requirements in such a way that, at least, it may not have been clear all along, and clarity and predictability are factors that must characterise the country's behaviour in the management of large economic values. On this basis, I recommend that the Right-wing Representatives vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e810	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e813	In the evening post of April 4th, Røres Färrespolitiksmann, Torbjørn Hansen said: “We require a comprehensive independent review of all these transactions, including the stability and corporate governance of the actors.” What does Per-Kristian Foss think about Hagen’s advice, that the Council of State should turn its deaf ear to and remain calm and passive to the transactions that had occurred, and thus ignore the Right’s claim? That's the one. And the second: both Hagen and Per-Christian Foss indicated that the bulk, valuable, of the transactions were known for a long time, and that's right. But with regard to the principle of ensuring a procedure that eliminates any doubt as to the transfer of benefits from one shareholder to another, is it not the principle that is important, not necessarily the amount of what could be an advantage transfer?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e820	The last thing I agree with. But then I wonder why you didn't break it down in the shareholder agreement. The fact that you, for example, uses as a business method to make transfers in an AS owned by an ASA company, is no unknown method, and for those who have studied the principal owner of the Aker group thoroughly, and I guess the department did, that's, let's say, a very well-known method. So then why you haven't secured yourself in the shareholder agreement against such an act is completely incomprehensible to me. But it fully emphasizes that the treatment of the purchase was random and not influenced by the good practice that usually characterises the Ministry of Industry in such cases. My impression was that the initiative for this was initiated from the outside, after pressure not least from the LO, and it happened without financial advice at the time. That's why you're standing there right now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e826	It is interesting to discover in the public the difference between the positions of ownership of the Right-wing Representative and the representatives of the Advance Party. It shows diametrically opposite views on how a state ownership is managed, and state ownership in general. It's interesting to observe, because it's hard to imagine how to find a kind of negotiated solution here, without one having to change their position altogether. That situation, I hope, is not what we're going to experience, but now leave it alone. So until what I was going to ask the representative Foss about: There have been unusually strong words from the representatives of the Right in this matter – I’m just going to take a little pinch: there have been demands for national law, they have said that these are similar Russian oligarchs, they have said that there has been ‘the greatest scandal’ under the red-green government, and Per-Kristian Foss himself has said that it is similar to ‘political corruption’. Now that the matter is about to enter for landing, does Foss think that there is coverage for these words Right has used?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e835	I do not need to withdraw any of the statements I have made in this matter, but I need to say the following: If you are to quote a representative of the big business, as in this case Torbjørn Hansen, you should not cheat with the quote. He has raised no claim for national law. He has stated that he asked for it to be assessed. And it's actually up to the control committee at all times to evaluate the liability law. We have done that, also in this case. Otherwise, I think the representative of SV might be a little less keen to collect the support from the Progress Party to buy shares in the private business. It was not the same joy that we experienced when the Progress Party allied itself to the Workers' Party on the involvement in IT Fornebu. Then SV was not present with the same joy, so this must be something SV has learned during the red-green period. It is possible to learn it again and return to more critical times, as one could view state ownership as an issue of appropriateness, but which does not mean that the state should jump every time a capitalist comes and wants support from the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e842	Right-wing criticism of the Council of State is particularly directed towards the fact that, through inaction, it has failed to obtain the necessary information prior to the publication of the transactions, in fact to the extent that it was considered that if you had done the job, you could have provided the State with a separate basis for assessing both price and industrial strategy on an independent basis. Although the Right's understanding is based on how the information flow was going, namely through the government representative on the board, we know that this information only became part of her on 25 March, a week before the transactions were published. Does Foss think that it is a reasonable criticism to travel that this should have been assessed on its own basis, both in terms of price and industrial strategy, and then reported back to the company?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e849	It's not right that you first got that information on March 25th. The majority of the transaction became known on 13 March, and then large transactions had already been reported on time in September of the previous year, so it did not come as a shock in the ministry that this would happen. I don't need anything but quoting what an overall committee claims ownership. It is in the setting: ‘The Committee will also underline the need for the State to: [[...]] I fully agree with that. It has also signed the Progress Party and the current government parties. But the prerequisite for doing this is to keep an eye on the hour, to keep yourself informed, to ask questions, and to engage in independent expertise to give advice. For the state to stand up as a minority victory against a large, strong, tough and professional strategic owner such as Smoke requires both that you follow the hour and that you have knowledge of what is going on. The state hasn't done any of the parts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e859	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e862	In 2007, the Stortinget decided to purchase 30 pst with the votes of the Workers' Party, the Advance Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Centre. by Aker Holding. This was a newly created holding company, the only purpose of which was to own more than 40 pst. by Aker Solutions. The State and Aker ASA committed themselves to own the shares for at least 10 years. The rationale for the purchase, as set out in St. Prp. No 88 for 2006–2007 was to ensure competence and ownership in Norway from a long-term perspective and provide a good foundation for the development of the industrial competence of the company. The majority of the Economic and Social Committee wrote in the Opinion that ‘this case is a good example of the Government’s active industrial policy’. This acquisition was subject to strong criticism, both from independent professionals and from the opposition. The Christian People's Party is generally a member of state ownership in order to secure natural resources, head office functions and key competences in Norway. But it has to be done on neat terms. The Christian People's Party strongly opposed this purchase because it was inadequately justified, because the price was too high, and because it gave the state too little influence. The Christian People's Party was critical of the fact that the state did not use external advisors for quality assurance. We also thought that this could lead to unfortunate bonds when the state entered as the direct owner of the largest supplier company on a Norwegian base. The Christian People's Party also stressed during the deliberation that if the purchase was given a majority, it was essential that the state should not become a sleeping partner, but actively safeguard the values of the state to the extent possible. In April 2009, the news came that Aker Solutions made a larger share purchase in five companies from Aker ASA. The transaction was negatively received on the stock exchange, and the share price in Aker Solutions ASA decreased by 15 p.m. It was claimed that Aker Solutions paid overprices for the shares, and former hedge fund manager Kjell Erik Eilertsen believed in Today’s Business on April 3, 2009 that Smoke used Aker Solutions as a ‘cashbox’. This has also been mentioned by previous speakers. The Christian People’s Party considers that the agreement reached between Aker, Saab, Investor and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade on 11 May 2009 does not involve substantive changes to the Decision of 1 April 2009, except that the case is to be dealt with at the General Assembly of Aker Solutions ASA and that the State has committed itself through the agreement to vote in favour of the transactions. We cannot see that the discussions that have taken place between the State and Aker since the decision of 1 April 2009 and the agreement of 11 May 2009 have brought about a substantial change in the decisions that the Brustad Government Council reacted so strongly to. The Christian People's Party also notes that the agreement of 11 May is in most respects contrary to the recommendations contained in Paretos' report, which was ordered by the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade after the publication of the transactions. In its letter to the Committee of 15 May 2009, the group leader, Øyvind Eriksen, refers to the meeting with the Ministry of 13 March 2009, where the Council of Ministers raised questions about the shareholder agreement. Eriksen states in his letter: ‘We could not easily perceive the attention of the Council of Ministers as different from that of the Board of Directors – and not the owners – in Aker Holding to which we were to deal’. This is in stark contrast to the Department's clarification to the Committee that it is common for the Chairman and/or Executive Director to come and inform owners of matters of strategic interest or of otherwise important importance for the company. There seems to have been a lack of clarity about reporting practices between the Ministry of Industry and Trade and the Aker leadership. The Christian People's Party cannot see that the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade has at any time made it clear to Aker that direct information is expected to be provided to the Department by the Chairperson and/or the Executive Director in addition to the information provided to the government representative. On questions during the hearing, and later by letter to the Committee of 3 June 2009, the Council of State could also not indicate that this has been clarified in the ownership notification. Nor can the Ministry of Industry and Trade demonstrate that the representative of the Governing Board appointed by the State had become aware of this need for a direct information channel between Aker and the Ministry in addition to the information she provided. The Christian People's Party believes that the primary responsibility for this ambiguity lies with the Ministry of Industry and Trade. The Christian People's Party assumes that for the future there is a better dialogue between owners prior to this type of transaction, and that there is agreement before and not after the transactions are advertised. We also expect that it will be clarified how and between whom the dialogue will take place, in advance. Through its representative on the Aker Holding Board, the matter became aware of planned internal transactions in Aker that would affect Aker Solutions ASA as early as 18 September 2008. On 24 February 2009, it became known that the management of Aker Solutions ASA had planned to buy up in Aker Oilfield Services AS. Furthermore, the majority of the planned transactions were briefed at the owner’s meeting on 13 March 2009. At this meeting the State was represented by four representatives of the Ministry of Industry and Trade. These did not object to the proceedings, nor did they ask for further information to the ministry. Meetings were also held between the Administrative Board representative appointed by the State and the Ministry of Industry and Trade on 25 March and between Aker Holding and the Ministry on 30 March. The Ministry has had every opportunity to obtain sufficient information about the transactions and procedures throughout this period, but has failed to do so. The Christian People's Party believes that the ministry had the opportunity to engage an independent financial advisor to assess the strategy and price of the transactions before the decision was taken. This could provide a basis for the country to assess both the price and the industrial strategy of buying-in on an independent basis before a decision was taken by the company. Instead, the Ministry acted passively both in terms of treatment and valuation. The Christian People's Party believes that this lack of commitment and activity on the part of the Council of State is highly critical and is not suitable for the interests of the state. The Council of State first showed activity and reaction after the public knowledge and partial criticism of the transactions. At that time, however, a decision was taken and an agreement was signed. The Ministry’s reaction was too late to allow the decision on the transactions to be overturned. Thus, decisions were taken without the Ministry having made an independent assessment of the transactions, as has subsequently been seen to be necessary. The Christian People's Party appreciates the broad political agreement reached during the examination of the case that the Aker case underlines the need for active and conscious ownership by the state, in line with the announcement of ownership, and it is duly underlined also by the case-rapporteur Øystein Djupedal earlier in the debate. The Christian People's Party has noted in particular that an overall committee, including the representatives of the Government Parties, believes that: «the case illustrates the need for clarification of the country's clear expectations as to the extent of company information of a strategic or industrial nature, how to inform the State, who is obliged to inform, and the time of such information». Furthermore, the Committee states that it will: ‘emphasise the need for the active and clear participation of the State of ownership, in line with other industrial owners, with clear, well-founded and independent positions relating to major strategic industrial dispositions in the company’. The Christian People's Party takes this as a clear signal that an overall control and constitution committee, and not the government parties, are satisfied with the way the government has managed ownership in Aker Holding. The behaviour of the Council of State in safeguarding the state's ownership of Aker Holding, based on the reasons I have stated here, has not been suitable for the interests of the state, and is highly critical. The Christian People's Party therefore regrets the handling of the case by the Council of State. The government's parties are trying to make a mockery of the mistrust proposal that is being promoted in the setting – and I think it is also here in the Chamber today. Mistletoe is something most of the parties in the Stortinge don't promote in vain, I think we're aware of. As far as I have brought about the clean, no such proposal has been made since the last Stoltenberg government in 2000. And it was a proposal from only one party. Mistylit is serious. When the Christian People's Party promotes it in concrete matters, a government council has committed acts that are highly critical, or has failed to do anything, which also has serious consequences. In this case, as I have described in my post, what has happened. I expect the council here in the Chamber to show a completely different attitude and take self-criticism, contrary to what has been the case so far in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e930	This case started two years ago, when the State secured decisive influence over one of Norway's largest and most important companies through acquisitions of over 12 p.m. of the shares. Former Aker Kværner, now Aker Solutions ASA, represents a national competence environment within one of Norway’s most important industries. The agreement was widely agreed in Stortinget. All parties, except the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, voted in favour of the purchase. In winter, several intra-Aker transactions were carried out, from Aker ASA to Aker Solutions AS, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Aker Solutions ASA. The transactions concerned those companies. It was Aker Oilfield Services for approx. NOK 1 billion, Aker DOF Deepwater to SEK 250 million. kr, ODIM at NOK 0.5 billion, Midsund Use at just under 100 million. kr, and finally an increased ownership interest in Aker Clean Carbon to just under 50 million. kr. Overall, these purchases thus had a value of about 2 billion – that is, significant amounts and a significant amount whether we measure in money or in activity. These transactions were carried out without any prior information or consultation of the State that owns them by the company or by the board of directors, and therefore had no opportunity to assess the consequences of the transaction. Therefore, when the case became known through the exchange notification on 2 April, one of the company's major owners was unknown as well as the industrial thinking behind it. At that time there had been no direct contact between either the Executive Director or the Administrative Board and the Ministry where full information on the transactions was provided. The opposition believes that this is the fault and responsibility of the Council of State, a position I think it is difficult to find coverage for. There had been contacts between the government at the department and the company several times during the winter, without full information about the transactions being provided. 13 March is an important date in this context. Then there was a meeting between the owners of Aker Holding. A general briefing was provided on the company’s strategy, activities and organisation. At the end of the meeting some ownership questions were raised. It was briefed that it was planned to purchase Aker Oilfield Services, an information that was not new, since this was announced in the company's quarter-quarter report on 24 February. There was no information about the price, progress or other conditions, and Interestingly, no mention was made of the other transactions, according to the Ministry. On the other hand, the Ministry stressed the importance of the clean-up of this transaction in particular and in other related transactions in general. Furthermore, Aker Solutions ASA’s responsibility to ensure that there was no criticism of the transactions could be addressed, and the importance that valuations could be documented was underlined. On 27 March, there is a meeting between Berit Kjøll and the Ministry before the General Assembly on the subject of the administrative work of the company in general. Here, the transactions in Aker Oilfield Services became a new topic. Kjøll believed that trade was industrially correct and that it would be carried out in the right way – in the light of brief, oral briefings of the Governing Councils on 18 September 2008 and 24 February 2009. Prior to the meeting, Kjøll requested more information from the Executive Director in order to better inform the Department. This was given in the form of an e-mail with an attachment of 27 pages, where the four other transactions were mentioned. This was completely new information for Kjøll at the time. For this reason, and because of the accompanying message that she was on the company's inside list, this information was not passed on to the ministry. On March 30, the ordinary general meeting in Aker Holding was on ordinary matters. Here, the Chairman of the Board of Directors asked Kjøll to take up the transactions that were to be dealt with at the board meeting later in the day. Manager Øyvind Eriksen briefed on parts of the company's strategy in addition to the already known transaction with Aker Oilfield Services. Then it was mentioned the purchase of shares in Odin and a directed issue against Aker Clean Carbon. No other information was provided about the transactions. The Ministry replied that information is not normally received on an ongoing basis, but that it is expected that the company itself will contact when information relevant to the owner is available. It was further underlined that it is the company’s responsibility to contact the owner when they consider that the need for information arises. This was not a prepared meeting. It was carried out on the initiative of Kjøll, and it was only an hour before the Governing Board meeting. At the board meeting in Aker Holding on 30 March, the transactions were briefed. The Swedish owners were to be briefed on the transactions, where Kjøll immediately asked to participate. The orientation was carried out, well to notice without the cold being invited to attend. On April 1, Kjøll then contacted the department and briefed per. telephone about the transactions to be executed, in the light of the information given at the Governing Board meeting on 30 March. On 2 April, Aker Solutions ASA and AS sent out an exchange message announcing the full volume of the four transactions and the issue, in addition, that this was intended to be funded by a larger bond loan with Aker ASA as the largest lender. It was therefore only through this exchange announcement that the State that owns was made aware of what had been done, directly by the company. As of 2 April, it is fairly well known what has happened, not least through full coverage in the press. The main reason for the motion of censure lies, at least for parts of the opposition, in what happened before 2 April. That's why there's every reason to stop here. The State has anchored the governance of its ownership through the ownership notification, the share company law and the Norwegian recommendation for ownership management of the company and the country’s principles of good ownership. A central principle is that ownership decisions are taken at a general meeting. It is the company's duty to inform the owner, either through the Executive Director or the Chairperson, of issues relevant to the owner. The representative of the State Governing Board does not replace the contact of the company directly with the Ministry. A shareholder agreement such as the one that exists here will not replace but will also replace the principles that apply. The State has extensive ownership of many listed companies and has extensive experience in enforcing this type of information and processes. Very well known, the lack of information exchange between companies and the owner has not been a problem in the past. In this case, on the basis of the information available, it should be reasonable to conclude that the company did not wish or wish to share this information with the owner, much less discuss the actual content. The argument that the company itself argues, namely that it is the responsibility of the member of the board to keep the owner informed, is, in my opinion, thin. Because even if Aker ASA’s understanding of how the information flow was going, through the government’s representative, it did not provide the board representative with comprehensive information within five days before it was informed of the matter in Aker Holding’s board meeting. On the contrary, it seems to me that a good deal of resources have been used by the company to find out that there is no need for a treatment in the general meeting of Aker Solutions ASA, and therefore a decision-making matter in the board of Aker Holding AS. This has been consulted by two external advisers from Aker Solutions. Moreover, both state advisers conclude that this was a matter for the general meeting. In view of this, the opposition's criticism of the Council of State is therefore strange. The assumption for it is that this was available information, which could thus form the basis for the possibility ‘to engage an independent financial advisor to assess the strategy and price of the transactions before the adoption of the decision.’;» This could in turn provide the country with the basis for assessing the price and industrial strategy of buying-in on an independent basis before taking a decision. It is demanding to involve a financial advisor to review transactions for which no information is available, and then to use this as a basis for making own price and industrial strategy assessments. This is, according to the opinion of the Center Party, criticism that falls on its own unreasonableness. It is not less demanding when we see the approach of the Party of Advancement: first, they criticize – together with the other parties – the Council of State for being too passive, so – in a separate remark – for being too active. To use a metaphor from meteorology, state councils are exposed here to north wind from all sides. Governments have received unusual scratches from many teams for handling after 2 April. In the setting, this tone is slightly down. It is alarming in itself when we take into account both the strength and intensity of the criticism that came. The party of progress and Øyvind Korsberg thought that Brustad had to get out of the snow hole and clean up, Right and Torbjørn Hansen thought that the council could possibly be set up for national law, although it was a little unclear which laws she might have broken, while Left and Sponheim satisfied themselves with metaphors within the plant life and talking about themselves in the third person together with the prime minister. Not only is the criticism strongly muted, it is also given a whole new content as the case has evolved. Now it is as well-known lack of handling in advance that is the problem. The only opposition is able to gather around is the very mistrust proposal and – together with us – the need for an active state ownership, where the state that owns takes a clear, well-founded and independent position related to major strategic industrial dispositions in the company. The last one is okay with it, all the time it's traditionally the government parties that have arranged for such an exercise of state ownership. And if this is the opposition's power collection before the fall's elections, I track four new years for sitting government. In my opinion, therefore, there is little doubt that this is only a game in which the aim is to hit a council of states that has done little other than its job, a council of states that has been in the storm and has respected the values of the community and the rights of the company. Nothing has been achieved, says the opposition. Well, valuations are quality assured by the outside party. The transactions were the subject of proceedings at the general meeting and the shareholder agreement is to be amended to avoid these types of events in the future. It is easy for the Center Party to support Sylvia Brustad in this matter. I would add for myself that I agree with Mr Eriksen in Aker ASA when he writes in a letter to the Committee that ‘large loads could have been avoided if Aker had actively had the effect that Aker Solutions itself was a party so that the transactions were presented to the general meeting’. It is extremely important that transactions between related companies in the same sphere are carried out in a way that does not allow questions to be asked about them, as we have seen here. For the state that owns it, in my opinion, there are two factors that are crucial. Firstly, the state must always be able to demonstrate that it maintains its values in a good way. Whether values are lost or confused, the community's resources are disappearing, and those who make the values available have made it, not directly or deliberately, but through democratic choices and tax payments. This thus becomes a matter of particular concern to the State. Secondly, the State must always ensure that the interests of all shareholders are safeguarded – not just the big ones, or that individuals enrich themselves at the expense of the joint stock. I cannot help but understand that this is exactly what Sylvia Brustad has done in this matter, by getting a new review of valuations and getting the matter dealt with in the general meeting. So do we have something to learn from this from our side? Yes, and I think that both the Council of State and the Committee have taken good care of that. There is a need to clarify expectations and procedures in relation to the exchange of information. Similarly, the dialogue between owners improves, so that there is agreement before and not after the transactions are advertised. It's also important to put in the margin that noise of the size we've seen here is not good for the company. The focus in the company is on value creation, jobs and development, and the fact that you get a completely different focus over time is obvious from the very important job that needs to be done every day in companies of this size. This is a responsibility of all parties to a ownership relationship, and the country will always have at least as large process and documentation requirements as other owners, for the above reasons. Mistletoe is not a game. In addition to national court action, mistrust proposals are the biggest and most potent weapon of the Storting against the executive, both to the single state councils and to the government as a whole. Sometimes mistrust proposals have changed Norwegian political history. The classic example is the mistrust proposal by the minority in the municipal committee and the forestry, watercourse and industrial committee against the government of Gerhardsen on 23 August 1963, following the mining accident in Kings Bay at Svalbard. That proposal was adopted by 76 votes to 74, and led to the government applying for dismissal. Since then, Norwegian policies have been permanently changed. The Lyng government showed that the Workers' Party was not meant to rule forever. That motion of censure is one of over 60 since World War II. It was a real mistrust proposal, taken seriously, promoted in the context of a serious case – and it had consequences. Today’s motion of censure will not be a watershed in Norwegian political history – at best it will be a historical bracket. To the best of my ability, I've looked for parallels, something to compare with. My stable tip is that it comes in the same division as several of the mistrust proposals that the representative Carl I. Hagen has promoted. On 19 November 1974 he promoted a motion of censure against the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the presentation of the Minister for Foreign Affairs. It was rejected against one voice – probably Hagen himself. After the Progress Party contributed to the capture of the Willoch government, Hagen obviously tried to make it right through a series of mistrust proposals against the government of Brundtland. He put forward the first in the line already during the throne debate on 20-21. October 1986. The proposal was, as we know, not accepted, against 2 votes. It is therefore new from that edge when Carl I. Hagen says that mistrust proposals should not be promoted in vain. So when will the Stortinge promote distrust proposals? Yes, when the Government has breached the duty of information to Parliament, it has acted contrary to the will of the Storting, the leaders and the law. We cannot escape the word'serious' in this context. The mistletoe against the Brustad Government Council will be briefly measured against all these criteria. First of all, it seems tailor-made for the media, and beyond the Storting's duty to act seriously, seriously and even decently. At the same time, such a proposal itself requires serious reflection and careful consideration. For my part, I have come to realize that I could not have supported it, even though I had represented an opposition party. It's too thin, too unprofessional and too difficult to take seriously. Hamsun wrote that in a hundred years everything is forgotten – well to notice except that very sentence. Today's motion of censure will be gone from the collective memory in good time before a hundred years have passed. Understand, who knows? Perhaps it is an example of meaningless and stillborn mistrust proposals, just like Hagen's mistrust proposals against the Minister of Foreign Affairs in 1974. It's not going to be written important political history here today. We're light years away from the Kings Bay case. Responsibility lies with the opposition. I'm sure they've done the best they could. That's their excuse. It's also their verdict, to quote one of the foremost people who's had their work here in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e998	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1001	The temptation was too great when I heard the representative Borten Moe's lecture on past mistrust proposals and views. I just want to remind you that in this period this is the first motion of censure. So it's been a long time since we've been doing it in vain – something we've never done, and something I've never done. I also remember the first thing in 1974. It's absolutely right that it only got one voice. It was because I struck a blow for a much more active attitude towards the Soviet Union's occupation of the three Baltic countries, which I thought was inevitable. I am very pleased that the attitude I stood for at the time has later emerged. So I'm going to ask Ola Borten Moe, where in the world has he got it from that I've been involved in overthrowing Willoch's government? Willoch's government asked a cabinet question. I didn't want it to go off. Even after Willoch had declared that he would leave, I asked him to give us another bourgeois government with another prime minister. Then Ola Borten Moe will be so kind as to confirm where in all the world he has it from that I have declared that government. It is a case of mistrust – it is the collapse of a government. Not bending to a cabinet question is not collapsing the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1010	We are moving well now strictly at the outer edge of what this matter is about. But Hagen is right that the government willoch asked a cabinet question about the fuel tax. It chose Hagen not to comply, with the consequence that the government Willoch went and the government Brundtland came. In my head, therefore, Hagen has a clear responsibility for Willoch resigning as Prime Minister in 1986.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1015	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1019	The government that was sitting was in favour of an active industrial policy. After four years, we can summarize that activity almost exclusively to send out confusing signals about what and how state ownership should be. We've had cases like options in Hydro, where it was apparently right of the state to intervene, about new directors in Statoil, where it was first wrong, but then right of the state to intervene, about oil sand in StatoilHydro, which it seems was not right of the state to intervene in, several issues related to Telenor and a state-occupied door factory in Årdal, to take a small, beautiful selection. Whether the state has been the sole owner, the majority owner or the minority owner, has been suffocated in a single large red-green stir, where the answer to any question is active enterprise policy. Above all, we have the matter we are dealing with today: the state's ownership of Aker Holding, which today appears to be even less sensible than it did when it was forced through by the bulk of the population. It's as Bergen's Official Journal wrote easily philosophically at the leadership position on April 18th this year: "We own, so we are" I have previously said that this matter is the largest red-green scandal in this four-year period. The scandal is primarily that the State became the sole owner of Aker and the non-procedure that preceded the purchase of the State, both in terms of price and lack of external quality assurance, but also the contract between the various owners of Aker Holding. After all, it has shown that there is a contract work that is absolutely not good enough, which the State Council has also admitted. This is in itself a criticism which should be directed primarily at former Minister of Economic Affairs Dag Terje Andersen. But when the Left nevertheless joins and will vote in favour of the minority proposal, which expresses distrust of the Brustad Government Council today, this is based on very passive and irresistible handling by the Council of State. I want to add: As many people have been involved, it is not everyday to have a mistrust proposal for treatment. And it's definitely not everyday in this room that a motion of censure will be supported by what's a large minority, yes, parties that actually had a majority behind in the election, but that in this room make up a large minority. Attempts by some representatives from the Government and government parties to hound over the treatment of this motion of censure, that it is a tactical game, etc. have made me quite upset. Because there is a lack of respect for the same minority and the minority parties, which definitely do not use any mistrust proposal in outlaws or have any other motives behind the mistrust proposal than the one that is directly in the vote and that are linked to the Council of State's office. It is simply to the extent that it is a majority to state in plain language that this Council of State does not have the confidence of the Stortinge. There should be no moaning over it, as rarely as mistrust proposals are promoted. It is a serious situation when the Stortinget will later vote on a motion of censure. The last time I was in such a situation, I sat on the government side of the Bondevik I government, and felt that a government had to go because you had to be forced to change the pollution law to allow more pollution. Then back to the Aker case: Already on 18 September 2008, through its representative on the board, the state became aware of plans for internal transactions in Aker. A number of meetings later were given further information about this. The state did nothing to stop, prevent, investigate or get more information about this before the matter became known through an exchange message from Aker on 2 April, and in the media the next day. At that time, decisions were taken and agreed to be signed – quite legally and legitimately, this would prove to be the case. After a few days of press noise, Minister of Industry Sylvia Brustad is visibly awakening on 5 April and is conducting an independent investigation. Two days later, Brustad says that she believes the transactions between Aker and Aker Solutions must be cancelled. The State, through the Minister of Industry, also engaged the company Pareto to review the financial aspects of the transactions. Despite the fact that both of these reports conclude that the transactions were illegal and the valuation was too high, the State and the State Council of Brustad unilaterally chose to focus on Aker’s own report from the company USB Investment Bank, which concluded that the transactions had been carried out ‘fair’. Why the Easter Councils were ‘cursed and frustrated’, carried out investigations of both the legality of the decisions, through Selmer, and of the valuation, through Pareto, and then not as if the conclusions of these self-initiated external investigations were still an unanswered question. What we're left with is a Council of States that has, in fact, gone from being “cursed”, to laying down the toad surface for Smoke and Aker, and trying to present it as a saying that it became a general assembly – a general assembly in which the state, first of all, was completely uninterested, and in which, secondly, it was not moved on a comma in the agreements that have been concluded. What can we learn from this matter? For me, there are some things that will be important in the future. Government purchases result in a significant concentration of power at the hands of the state. This leads to unfair conditions, by the state sitting on several sides of the table at the same time. That's why at least we have to have fundamental debates in advance of a purchase of this type. There is a great difference between ownership of these types of companies, with their culture, and ownership of the traditional state enterprises, where there are obvious historical and political reasons for state ownership. I want to stop by what has been a central point in the debate, namely the question of communication and what the representative Foss called two-track communication. I do not think it is clear enough in the debate that the state's acquisition in Aker – the state as a minority shareholder in Aker together with one large and dominant majority shareholder – is a fundamental new feature in state ownership. We should remember that most of the state ownership, which the Ministry of Economic Affairs manages – and which I have also enjoyed for a period of time, as Minister of Industry – concerns companies where the state is established as owner. For a long time, the country has been the owner, it is historically justified and tradition of having the country as its owner. I can confirm what has been said about ownership in these types of companies, that there is a significant informal link between the management of the companies and the Ministry of Industry – and, very often, the Minister of Industry personally. It's just to mention Hydro, Statoil, Telenor and other companies. Here group management and chairman are very alert in the particular situation the state is in as owner, and make sure to flow to very much information. I have to say that sometimes I thought it was alarming to see how much commitment they could show – that at an early stage they almost shared their thoughts about what one might think about in the future, and that could possibly become a burden to the state as the owner. I could have spent my entire speaking time today telling stories about this. So these are companies with an established culture to have the state as their owner. There is a broad understanding of how to deal with it, and it has not been necessary to formalise it. The state goes into Aker as its owner, along with Røkke. Some aspects should be clear to the State – not least from the experience of the Ministry of Economic Affairs as having competence in different contexts relating to the Aker and Smoke systems, acquisition proceedings, acquisitions of different companies, etc. – when you involve yourself with him as an owner, and with his way of operating companies. I would like to stress that I have never seen anything other than that Smoke is staying on the right side of the law – but not anymore. Millimeters are used. And neither he nor his companies, I think, spend a lot of time worrying about the problems the state could have with its ownership. This is knowledge The Ministry of Economic Affairs has at the time when you were to be part of this ownership. And then it strikes me: one alternative is that the representative Hagen is absolutely right. The state, with the knowledge and experience it had, did not choose to formalise this because it did not intend to exercise the kind of ownership that is done in other companies in which the state owns. One had simply intended to carry out what I believe is a political justification for this ownership and this acquisition – and, incidentally, Smoke allowed to continue to create values and build companies. Then came this situation, where it turned out that the state and the Minister of Industry obviously needed to carry out a type of activity that I don't think was meant to be when they established this ownership. The second option is that the State, with all the knowledge it has, and the whole new situation to go into, in this case by being a minority shareholder, must, of course, make sure to formalise this, if it is possible to do so in a shareholder agreement, in order to obtain a special treatment, as this actually is, by ensuring that the State has wide dialogue and in-depth contact with the company – or otherwise ensure that the formal or informal contact between the company and the department, i.e. the State that owns directly outside the board, would take place. I don't think one had reason to believe that the smoking system and the Aker would do like Hydro, Statoil and all the other companies would have done. It must have been written in mountains – and read up almost every day – in order to ensure that it had been established. And in that case, the neglect is that you didn't do it. So I'm going to end by pointing to the reason I have to call this the biggest scandal in this period. It is, in isolation, not the government council Brustad's handling of Easter hours, but the whole race, which ended with the state going in and paying scarcely NOK 5 billion to Smoke, without smoking's power – it's well documented lately – has been somewhat degraded. He can continue as before with these companies, but with a considerable amount of money in his pocket. He's got what he's always wanted, I think, a minority shareholder with a lot of money – and can still retain the power he needs. There's been a political game around this purchase. I sat as the parliamentary leader in this house when in January 2007 I received a telephone – I have mentioned this earlier from this pulpit – from a furious smoke, which was put on the sideline of the merger negotiations between Statoil and Hydro. He scolded out the red-green government and thought he was entitled to a better treatment, because he had so actively supported the Workers' Party during the election campaign in 2005. He said this in clear text on the phone. He also said something similar to the other parliamentary leaders. After that round, the noise and the attention that was about Smoking's obvious dissatisfaction that he did not receive any political special treatment, it was silent for a few months – until at the end of June we got the news that Andersen, along with other good friends in LO and business, had negotiated this agreement, and the state came in as the owner. It shall be argued long and well before I will believe that this purchase did not have a strong political justification. I think it's quite well documented in what happened around Easter times, under the poor governance and management of the Brustad Council, that one was so concerned with achieving the political justification that the solid work of the Ministry of Economic Affairs almost always does in such cases, one had no time to do in that case. One was to achieve the policy and was not so terribly concerned with the store.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1058	The state is a large owner in Norwegian business. Many of the companies in which the State owns shares have world-leading competence and, through their presence and management in Norway, contribute to maintaining an innovative and competitive business. This also applies to Aker Solutions, a leading global supplier of advanced technological solutions. The company is well ahead, for example: in the case of the provision of solutions for the collection of petroleum at high sea depths and under challenging climatic conditions. A significant element of Norwegian long-term ownership helps to ensure that companies have their head office and research activities in Norway. It's of great importance. At the head office of Aker Solutions, decisions are taken of major importance for the company's business and strategic development and for the development of other Norwegian-based companies that are subcontractors of this company. It is in this context that we need to see the state ownership of Aker Holding, which is anchored in Stortinget by the decision of 11 December 2007, where the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade was authorised to complete a purchase of 30 pst. of the shares in Aker Holding. The ownership of Aker Holding ensures, as is known to the State, through a shareholder agreement, negative control over some important issues, such as: location of Aker Solutions’ head office, seagoing with a relatively small holding of 12 pst. On 2 April of this year, Aker Solutions published the five extensively mentioned share transactions and a loan transaction. The Aker ASA group was a party to all these transactions. The total volume was significant. The stock market reacted negatively to the news of the transactions. On the basis of the information available on 2 April, I stated that the Ministry felt that the decision-making process should be different, and, as I had previously also informed the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, I asked for three things: Firstly, on behalf of the state, I wanted an independent review of the transactions. Secondly, I asked that the transactions in the meantime be suspended. Thirdly, I asked that this matter be dealt with at the general meeting, so that all the shareholders could have their say, because this is also about protecting shareholder democracy. If this could not be fulfilled, I thought the transactions had to be reversed. In the solution that now exists between Aker, Saab, Investor and the State, these conditions are taken care of. So the solution that now exists meets the requirements that we set. I would also like to stress that I have never at any time expressed any idea of the price or strategy behind the transactions at this stage. I note that in the attitude of the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs, an overall committee refers to the need for active and conscious ownership by the State. I fully agree with that, and it is in line with the government's ownership policy as expressed in St.meld. No 13 for 2006–2007, An active and long-term ownership. I have also noticed that the committee believes the matter illustrates the need to clarify the state's expectations regarding information from the companies. The experience of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade over the years is that this has not been an ongoing problem. However, in the light of this case, it is natural to review this. Three of the four owners of Aker Holding AS – the State, Saab and Investor as well as board members both in Aker Holding AS and in Aker Solutions ASA – asked questions about the decision-making process. Furthermore, Aker’s own audit committee pointed out on 14 April this year that they would like to see these transactions better anchored. It is the company of the Executive Director and the Management Board which is responsible for ensuring that the proceedings are properly handled, and it is the responsibility of the company to inform and, where appropriate, also involve the owners so that they can take care of their interests. The Board of Directors is an office of the company, and a board member is the trustee of the company and represents the entire shareholder community, even when the representative is elected by the state. The company cannot therefore assume that a matter is anchored with the State only the member of the board has been elected by the State and should have been informed. In other words, they meet with a member of the board of directors and do not replace the contact between the Executive Director and the Chairman of the board to have with the shareholders on behalf of the company. I record that there has been criticism of the solution we are now agreeing on, among other things. having regard to the fact that the proceedings of the general meeting were apparently not to be effective since the State had decided in advance and the processing took place after the transactions had been completed. First of all, I would say that it is a matter of course that the owners of Aker Holding, that is Aker, Saab, Investor and the State, had agreed in advance on how Aker Holding, as the largest shareholder in Aker Solutions, would vote at the General Assembly. It was just supposed to be missing! This does not mean that the processing of the transactions by the general meeting was insignificant, on the contrary. When Aker Solutions and other companies have investigations with large owners prior to general meetings, it is precisely to avoid the type of situations where large owners vote for important proposals. This is the case in other major cases, such as: the separation of Yara from Hydro, by bringing together Hydro's oil business with Statoil, through buy-back programmes of its own shares in several of the listed companies, etc. Secondly, that the processing took place after the transactions had been completed, I would say that we would have liked the General Assembly of Aker Solutions to deal with the transactions before they were completed – it was said. That is exactly what is at the heart of this matter. I want to show that Aker Solutions in a press release on 20 April wrote that until a new review of independent advisors was ready, ‘the enterprises purchased from the Aker ASA Group will be maintained as independent entities. Aker ASA, on its side, has accepted that the settlement of the shares in the relevant companies Aker Oilfield Services, Aker DOF Deepwater, Odim and Midsund Use will not take place until the end of May». Now the transactions known to have been approved by the General Assembly, and we are pleased with that. I think everyone can agree that we would have preferred to be in addition to the situation we've been in in the last few months. However, as is well known, the state is a major owner of a large number of companies, and state ownership is very important for the Norwegian economy, for Norwegian jobs and for Norwegian business. The Ministry manages holdings in 20 companies. The ministry manages on behalf of the state values for several hundred billion dollars. That's why we have to be very clear about where the boundaries go between what companies can and should handle on their own, and what things we as owners are going to be involved in and decide in. When situations arise where there is doubt about where this limit goes, we have to take the job it is to clean up, sail if it is demanding for everyone involved. I am pleased that we now have a solution, and that the case has been submitted to the owners, as requested by both Saab, the Investor and the State. Aker Solutions is one of the most important industrial and technology companies in Norway. I am now committed to looking forward and contributing to the continued positive development of this company in the interests of Norwegian jobs. Through national ownership, we ensure that this important company will also be operated from Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1119	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1122	Shortly after the media council was introduced to this purchase of five companies, she expressed – and I cannot quote her in dialect, as others have done, to give her credit for the dialect – being cursed and frustrated. Why did the Council of State express it when the State representatives at the shareholder meeting on 13 March were well acquainted with 80-90 pst. of this transaction, and when representatives of the State also knew of the principle of related companies – all of the principal and most of the extent was known to the representatives of the State on 13 March? There was no indication that the State wanted a general meeting decision in Aker Solutions ASA. Why in the world did the State thread later express her frustration and cursing?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1127	The fact that we have been busy having a different process in this case is an opinion we share with Saab and the Investor. What happened at the meeting on 13 March was that we – yes, correctly – got information about Aker Oilfield Services. It was already known in the market since 24 February, but that department was not informed about, was that these transactions were going to take place in subsidiary companies, we were not informed that it was a loan, and we were not given information about the price and terms. That department stressed that there was a great deal of cleanliness about internal transactions. We got insurance from the company that this would be carried out in such a way that no questions could be asked about it. On that basis, we did not have any basis at the time for not having confidence or intervention in this case. However, when this case appeared on the full scale on 2 April, as it looked, it was necessary on behalf of the state to ask that we get this in a general meeting, got an independent review and got a better handling of this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1137	I have three specific questions. Question 1: In the owner’s meeting on 13 March, it was known that there was a transaction — at least 80 pst. of a transaction — related. Why, then, did not the representatives of the State express their wish to have a general meeting? Question 2: Does the Council acknowledge that she ordered two reports, that is, the UBS report and the Pareto report, which provided conflicting advice on the valuation and strategy assessment of the transactions? Question 3: After the Ministry's legal assessment, inter alia: based on the Selmer report: Could the decisions on the transactions have been overturned, based on a legal assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1148	There were three questions, and I'll try to reach out to at least some of them. Let me start with the reports on the independent financial review. - No, I don't regret it. Let me start with UBS, which the representative knows well, also through the hearing that was in the Control and Constitutional Committee. It is a report that all owners agreed that we should order. We agreed on the mandate and, as you know, we also agreed on the outcome. The big difference between UBS and Pareto is that UBS is based on internal information, while Pareto doesn't. It's been known from day one. But on behalf of the state, we've been busy getting all the facts on the table. It has been our concern in this matter. Now we've got all the facts on the table, and we've found a solution in relation to how we're going to move on. With regard to the meeting on 13 March – which in itself was also a question for the representative Hagen – what we were not able to do on that day was that the transactions were to take place in a subsidiary company, and we did not get information about the loan, the price and the terms. It is quite essential information. But it appeared on 2 April, and it was on the basis that we asked for a proper review of this matter. We've now got that, and I'm glad we have a solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1159	In this case, the Council of State shows the power of action only after the contested transactions have been adopted and are publicly known. She goes out very hard against Aker. She requires the transactions to be processed at general meetings or zeroed. Then she capitulates completely and says she is pleased that there is a general meeting and that the state undertakes to vote for all transactions. When the General Assembly arrives, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade does not even take the trouble to set up. Professor Ole Gemms-Onstad from BI says about the Aker case of E24: ‘There is talk of state ownership. This is an example of the true opposite.’ The Christian People's Party finds it very serious that the government in this matter has put state ownership in what we must call discredit. Does the Council of State think that the state's ownership exercise through Aker Holding is the gold standard for state ownership, some kind of ownership we'll see more from the red-green government? Or – and that’s very important – does she recognize at any point that something could have been done differently?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1171	Let me first say that there have been especially three things we've been busy about, like Saab and Investor. One was the process, the other was getting a general meeting, and the third was an independent review. We've got all of that. In addition, we agree that we should not get into that kind of situation for the future, and therefore we also make changes to the shareholder agreement because there has obviously been a discussion about the general stock law §3-8. When it comes to the issue of the General Assembly in Aker Solutions, I am quite amazed at the criticism that has come there. It must be known, then, that in order for one to meet at the general meeting, one must be a direct shareholder. We're not direct shareholders in Aker Solutions. That's why we met there, as it should be done neatly and properly, through a representative of Aker Holding. I hope the representative Lånke does not think we should meet at general meetings where we have nothing to do. We didn't have that in this general meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1178	A central question in the attitude is that the state at the Council of State and the Aker system have a slightly different view on the nature of ownership communication. The Aker system expresses their desire to have that dialogue with its government, while the state believes that it should also be directly to large and important owners, as is customary in many other contexts. It is not stated in the shareholder agreement concluded in 2007 that Aker is to deal directly with the owner, as is customary in other ownership. My question is: was it prepared in 2007 or at a later stage, for example. by an oral agreement or understanding with Aker and the Majority Winning Smoke, how would the State feel? And: If it was somehow clarified – and if the Council of State believes that it was somehow clarified – is it to perceive that Aker, possibly a majority-owned smoke, has broken an agreement, possibly an understanding, that was with the state about how the state would have this direct communication in addition to the board?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1185	It follows from both the ownership notification and from common practice that it is the company at the head of the board and/or the managing or managing director who is responsible for informing and involving large owners in major and important matters, for which this is an example. In addition, in this case, there is a representative of the Governing Board who has been elected by the State. It happened, for example. the issue in connection with SAS, and that occurred in connection with Telenor entering India. I am absolutely sure that the representative Sponheim sjål has a lot of experience in how this is happening. I think it has become obvious to everyone in this case that this has been somewhat different understanding about that question. We are going to clean this up for the future in relation to this company because it is clear – as it is stated both in the ownership notice and in what is common practice in all the companies in which we have holdings – that it is taking place in such a way that it is the company that is responsible. This has also happened in the past in Aker, for example. in the case of the name issue, where you went from Aker Kværner to Aker Solutions, where we received information from the management of the company.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1193	The Council of State uses the expression that there was a little ‘disparate understanding’ of the form of communication between Aker and the Ministry of Industry and Trade. I guess that's taking a little bit of care. In fact, the Committee is quite unanimous that it was diametrically opposed to the idea of this issue. My question to the Council of State is: does the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade have a share of responsibility for the differences in understanding or simply not understanding each other? I remember the Council of State in a press statement saying that the terms ‘cursed and frustrated’ might have moderated something. I am grateful for all the contributions to self-criticism of that kind. The question is, is there any other government council would have done differently, in the light of the postwar clock?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1200	First of all, let me say that it is common practice for companies to come to the Department through their executives and executive directors and inform them of different sensitive issues, many of which are not going to happen, many of them becoming something of them. As far as this process is concerned, I believe it was absolutely necessary and correct of me on behalf of the state, in line with the reaction that came from Saab and the Investor and several board members, to have a different handling of this matter. We have now found a solution, and we agree on how to do this for the future. We're also going to make adjustments to the shareholder agreement, as we know. So I believe this case also shows that there are many who need to learn from how this is handled. The point that that is, among other things. is a reason to look at, and as we are doing, the clarification of communication with the State representative. We believe that this has been clear all along, but as long as there is different understanding, we have to go through it with the company in question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1209	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1212	Earlier in this debate, the case-rapporteur, and now the Council of State, have gone through the various aspects of the Aker case in depth. My approach in this debate will be primarily linked to the political aspects of the matter. Rarely, if ever, has it ever been promoted in the Storting against a council of states with such great reason as we experience here today. In reality, it is difficult to see the existence at all of a factual justification for the opposition's proposal. The right-wing opinion, as has been expressed earlier in the debate, is that the Council of State has done too little – she should have actively sought more information from Aker Solutions. No Minister of Industry can go on questioning among the companies in which you are a partner. It is an obvious and obvious responsibility for the administration and the Chairperson to provide the owners with adequate and relevant information, and in due time. So it hasn't happened in this case. I think it is worth noting that Aker and Aker Solutions found it necessary to carry out more legal assessments as to whether it was necessary to present the case to their owners, i.e. to the general meeting. I also think it is worth noting that former Minister of Industry Sponheim has confirmed in the debate here today that it is quite normal and normal for the company to have continuous, good and close contact with the Ministry of Economic Affairs – in companies where the Ministry of Economic Affairs is a significant owner. As we can understand from this debate, the usual way of communicating is through direct contact with the ministry. This is worth noting, because the very question of ownership communication has gradually become central in this matter. Today, early in the media, I registered the High Representative of the Control Committee, the representative Foss, as saying that he expected a clarification of the Government's ownership policy through this debate and this matter. In that case, there is another new reason for the actual mistrust, if it is the case that the Right now raises mistrust proposals to get a general debate on ownership. In that case, it confirms the assumption that the Right, and perhaps most of the opposition, sees this occasion as an opportunity for a change of ownership. I must say that after hearing both Left's posts here today, at Sponheim, and the contributions of the Christian People's Party, at Lånkke, I think it becomes clearer and clearer that you really go back to what was a matter that you were against when the state entered Aker. It was also said in the debate today that it was forced through in the Stortinget at the time. I don't know how to define coercion against Stortinget when it was a large majority – not a criminal majority – who in 2007 argued that the state should enter Aker as its owner. On the other hand, the Progress Party has considered that the Council of State should preferably remain calm and not react as we thought the transaction should have been submitted to the owners of the General Assembly. Today, in fact, the Progress Party in this debate raised doubts as to whether it was necessary at all to present these transactions to a general meeting. The sum of this is that there's pretty daunting reasons, but still you can sew it together for a motion of censure. My conclusion is that there is a political mark more than a factual reality at stake. It is not that we have a state council that has violated laws, that has failed to follow decisions taken by the Storting, or that has neglected its obligation to provide information. Here, on a slightly different basis, it has been found that there is a critical conduct of office with which mistrust is to be justified. The right lighter of some violent ointments as the matter came up around Easter times. The concept of corruption was used and national law was mentioned. With such a violent and loud criticism, it almost ended with a mistrust proposal, despite the fact that there is a shattering and unclear justification. Then, of course, you can ask yourself whether this motion of censure is an expression that the opposition is ready to take over government power, or at least that it stands for a common ownership policy. The answer to these questions is obvious: No. I fully agree with those who say that you should take distrust seriously. Mistylit is a serious tool to use for Stortinget. That is also why I believe that when it is done it should have clear, clear and sound reasons. It doesn't have today's proposal. Finally, let me make it clear: Councillor Sylvia Brustad has our full confidence. It was right to point out that the transactions between related companies in the Aker system should have been submitted to the owners. And it was right to ask for an independent valuation. Had the Council of State not reacted this way, there could have been a basis for criticism. We therefore believe that today's motion of censure lacks clear and sound reasons, and it is obvious to us that we will reject this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1243	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1246	Let me say that there's no contradiction between running politics and having a factual justification for the positions you take. When, today in the morningcasts, I had no greater expectations of the debate than that it might perhaps give some clarification of what the Government meant by its ownership, it was justified in two respects. One was that I didn't have all the world's expectations that the representatives of the government parties were set free to vote on the motion of censure – and I have every reason to believe that I was right. The second is that this ownership is special. There's nothing common and normal about this, because it's the first time the state enters into a minority in a company dominated by one large private owner. This is contrary to all the practices we have had in the past. It's actually the first time it happens. And then, without insulting anyone, you have to be able to add that this main owner probably also has a series of conflicts with minorities. In such a situation one would think that the state might have been particularly vigilant in relation to its shareholder agreement and in relation to its ongoing follow-up to ownership, but then has not happened.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1255	It is quite clear that this reply from the representative Foss confirms the fact that there is the issue of the country’s ownership of Aker as such that is essential for essential parts of the opposition when they are currently travelling mistrust. It can almost be assumed that if the Right, Left and Christian People's Party had voted for the Aker case in its time, perhaps the same reason for criticising the conduct of office in connection with the transaction case, which is the case the control committee has been dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1260	It should not be made a big news that some of us actually account for the same thing today as we did in 2007 in terms of ownership. I think it's a quality mark of a politician, not least on issues that require a certain firmness, like dealing with ownership. The representative of Solberg quoted me quite correctly: it is my experience that it is normal for the state to have a direct dialogue with companies where the state is the owner. That's absolutely right. But that's obviously not normal for the Aker system. They have no need to have a special, established dialogue with storehouses Smoke. He's probably been briefed on most of what's going on. Then, at my discretion, not least with the experience I know, the Ministry of Economic Affairs has in terms of being responsible for Smoking, obviously to a very different extent has laid a framework, established rules and agreements for the functioning of this ownership. Can the representative of Solberg later see that this should have been done?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1269	My point of drawing up the different opinions of parties on the Storting about state ownership in connection with the fact that we are discussing a motion of censure today is that state ownership and differing views on it have never in itself been the basis of mistrust. It is a purely factual matter, in so far as fair political disagreement has existed between the parties on the Stortinget for a long time. It's a familiar relationship. The justification used for the transfer of duties in relation to the issue of these transactions is strongly coloured – as I judge it today – by the views of the opposition parties in the original Aker case. When it comes to communications between the state as owner and other owners in Aker, I point out that the Council of State recently set out in a reply code change how this communication has been, and that it has been seen in retrospect that there has been a need for clarification, because you have a slightly different view of it. That's what came out in the Council's answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1278	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1282	Let me first say that the Advance Party agrees that we supported the Government's proposal on ownership of Aker Holding. We agreed on that, and we accept it now, so this motion of censure is not about it. I believe that the position's attempt to create an impression of it is wrong. The Progress Party is in favour of this motion of censure because we believe what we are saying in our criticism of the government's office. That's what the matter is. I noticed the contributions of the Council of State, where she stressed the importance of state ownership in various Norwegian companies for the Norwegian economy. Of course, I fully agree with that. I also noticed that she stressed that many of these companies are also world leaders in their fields and have considerable competence. I fully agree with that. But that's exactly why it's so infinitely important that the state manages its ownership in a professional way in every company you're a partner in or owns completely. It's not because the politicians intervene in these companies in time and out of time that they are doing well. They're doing great because we're not mixing politics into business. They're doing well because, essentially, we've been busy being long-term, professional, and entrusting the big decisions to those who're going to take them. The Progress Party does not have a fundamental counter-representation against the state being the owner of different companies, if it serves our common interest. But the main goal must be to maximise the values on behalf of taxpayers, because that's because of their money we've gone into this ownership. This is a motion of censure which I believe the position should take far more seriously than they have done in this debate, because it is about the very critical office of the Council of State. That's what this is about. I have to say that I think it becomes more than clear through this debate that the Council of State has subsequently tried to construct an explanation to keep water in public space, to expound its own actions along the way. It becomes more and more obvious to me. There is no doubt that the meeting on 13 March was familiar with the principle of the matter. You were familiar with 80-90 pst. of the transactions involved — and they did not respond. Governments responded only after media pressure — only after the case received considerable public attention. Then the council found out that it was time to respond. In my opinion, that's not how you manage a professional ownership. It's not when you stand in the north wind and it blows from all sides you suddenly realize that you have to change the strategy in your ownership exercise. It is absolutely legitimate to want to change the strategy along the way, but then you have to have a well-founded explanation of why you do it. But then you choose to do it at a very different time than you did in this case. I think it must be at the heart of the state's exercise of ownership in all companies that one is predictable, long-term, credible and stable. There is no doubt that many of the statements made by the Council of State in this matter damaged the company – and that is not a good exercise of ownership. But let me say a few words about state ownership in general, because one of the mantras of the red-green parties in the election campaign in 2005 was: Now there was going to be a completely different kind of state ownership, now we were going to get active exercise of state ownership – now it was going to be really great! Well, what we've seen now is a very embarrassing notion – if that's what the red-green parties mean by active state ownership. What is important — precisely because the state manages such large values — is that you are predictable in the ownership you exercise. It may be that in some companies you want to exercise a passive ownership, which was the plan of Aker Holding. It was quite obvious that you intended to ensure head office location, but besides that, you really didn't want to have so many opinions about the company's operation. It's totally legitimate. The Progress Party supported it. But the truth is that Sylvia Brustad and the government in retrospect – when they were under pressure – needed to think differently. It's not very professional! It is also possible to want to have a much more active ownership in other companies, but my point is that you have to stick to the predictable strategy all the way, for each company, and not suddenly change it when the wind starts blowing a little too strongly around you, and you need to find an explanation that fits the current situation. I believe that the Government for the future would stand to define a little more clearly what they mean by active state ownership, simply because it is about managing significant values in large, important companies in a way that taxpayers in this country have earned, that helps to increase values, and that efforts are being made to involve, as far as possible, substituting political arguments in the exercise of ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1299	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1302	It might be tempting to ask the representative Siv Jensen what government alternative she had recommended to the King if this mistrust proposal had been made – but it does not! I want to point out what she said in her statement, that it is important not to mix politics into the industrial decisions. I don't think there's much disagreement about that -- if the industrial decisions aren't so dramatic that they can rock the whole reason for the state ownership of a company. But what this was primarily about was the observance of shareholder democracy and the process chosen, which led not only to the principal owners, but all the shareholders, being put on the sideline. Does Siv Jensen think that the audit committee in Aker Solutions – when they also say that it was not well enough anchored – is wrong? Or does she think it is important to have a process that allows the whole shareholder community to be involved in this type of decision, especially when there may be a benefit transfer to one of the shareholders?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1311	I am a member of good processes in all companies – in all companies, whether the state is a joint owner or not. But that's not the main question in this case. I repeat what I said from the pulpit, that the government has needed to dictate an explanation that fits a little bit in the public room now afterwards to expound its own stupid actions along the way. It's basically because the matter is about, that's what the distrust proposal is about. I may think that the government parties would stand by being a little more open to the fact that the Council of State has not dealt with this matter very well, that she has helped to reduce the company’s value – and that in the future at least one thing should have been learned from this matter, namely that one has to know what to do when making agreements.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1320	This debate shows with all possible clarity the difference between the Progress Party and the other bourgeois parties in view both of ownership and management of ownership. It's interesting to observe. That means that it's completely unclear what the result of this would be if it had become a majority of parties other than government parties to the harvest. I allowed myself to ask former party leader Hagen a question about how a Minister of Economic Affairs from the Progress Party would have dealt with this question if one were imprisoned with this matter. What our Minister of Industry did was that she usually expected to be informed. When a large company in which the state owns makes a change that has an industrial strategic importance and is of a certain extent, it is natural and normal – as the representative Sponheim has also explained. Does this mean that the Progress Party would not expect this, since Hagen actually acquits Aker's behaviour here? Does that mean that a Minister of Industry from the Advancement Party will sit completely passively in the chair and not ask for any information at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1327	It does not sound as if Øystein Djupedal has listened with both ears to what the Progress Party has said in this debate. We have said the same thing all along, and we have had the same attitude to this ownership now, as we had when the matter was decided a few years ago. The point is – as I also said in my post – that when you have to manage and exercise ownership, it has to be consistent, whether it blows north wind or not. That's what's the main criticism of the Council of State, that she had a completely different way of dealing with this ownership before there was a public storm. Then it was suddenly interesting to acquire information that had not been interesting to acquire in advance. The way we exercise ownership is not very satisfied with, and that's what our main objection is. You have to be consistent and stick to what kind of ownership you exercise, whether you have chosen a passive line or you have chosen an active line, and then it has to be consistent all the way – no matter how much it blows.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1336	The representative said in his reply to me that the government had dictated a basis for its reaction. The audit committee in Aker Solutions said that these transactions were not well enough anchored. Saab and Investor have reacted to the process, and the board member Heidi M. Petersen has withdrawn. Does the representative think it's also based on a fictional reality?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1343	I repeat that I believe that the government has needed to construct an explanation that is adapted to the current situation, based on the mistakes that have been made in the process. I'm standing by. But then there is no one who fails to accept the seriousness of this matter. It's very serious. But the kind of humorous thing about the whole thing is that all that noise the council and others have tried to make after, really hasn't led to anything. So it's not a single change of significance. All you've been doing is making a lot of noise. Then you've got a general assembly, like your mouth to nothing. I think that shows with all manner of clarity that you have needed to construct an explanation without having any ambitions to change the reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1350	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1353	In 2005, we were constantly promised an active industrial policy if we received a red-green government. We were promised a number of things that were to be solved. The list was a long list of things to do. After coming to the government offices, little has been done to improve the conditions for Norwegian business. Instead, they have chosen to appoint villains and heroes among those who create jobs in this country, and have created media storms around it. It has been decided to increase taxation to the vast majority of private enterprises in this country, and it has pushed up profits in small and medium-sized enterprises. Thus, the cornerstones of Norwegian business and jobs — one million jobs — are affected by increased taxation during this government. I'll start by saying that because one of the reasons we've come up with this situation is the violent sales business of active industrial policy. Instead of having an active industrial policy that ensured jobs developed in Norway, an activistic and improvised ownership policy was developed by the Government – improvisation governed by various media projections and through several government councils. In many ways, this is symptomatic of much of the work this government is doing — one can manage more of the next media playback and management than actually doing what is the original and most important job of the state councils, namely ensuring that policies are implemented and achieving results. That's one of the reasons why we see a government that has both brought us a crisis in our most important welfare system, Nav, a crisis in child protection, increasing health cows and a lot of other things we're going to spend weeks and months discussing in the future. This activistic and improvised ownership policy we have seen in many cases, and they are very similar in the course. It is one thing that the Council of State has not followed, been informed or involved in things – but the Council of State has not responded until the media releases have been there. The first round was when the government persuaded Johan Fredrik Odjell to stand as a candidate for the Governor's Office in Statoil. Even Odjjell refused to remain silent because he knew that he had a pay-as-you-go agreement, which he had notified the Government of. Finally he said yes. His candidacy was published, and it was supported by the country's prime minister. But after a week with a mouth from LO leader Gerd-Liv Valla, Jan Bøhler and SV, Stoltenberg drew the support to Odjell – and one had to look for an endless search for a new director of Statoil. Then we came to summer 2007. The Ministry of Economic Affairs was told that Hydro, at the request of the State, would terminate its option programme. This meant a one-off payment to CEO Eivind Reiten of about 20 million. kr. The Ministry of Industry was informed. They did nothing. Then the media storage came, and then we saw rowing and enveloping without the same government as if it had not been informed – even though it was documented in retrospect that it was well-informed about what was happening. After a few days, the government attacked the Horseman and Governor Jan Reinås. The state is a minority shareholder in Hydro, but they nevertheless allowed themselves to ask the chairman to leave. A little later, the foreign board members concluded that they would be objecting. Now it is not the first time that the activistic policy of this government has led governments and government representatives to protest against the improvised government. The BaneTele case, where you chose to sell to the Bredband Alliance – with a steering director with close ties to the Workers' Party – despite the fact that the bid was 200 million. kr below the highest bid is also an example of this. I believe that this is descriptive of the tradition that the Council of State Sylvia Brustad has entered into this government. This has happened during her predecessors, but you have improvised when the media stores have arrived. You have not managed, not reacted to the information you have received on the table in the process, in the past. It's true that the right was against going in and being the owner of Aker Holding AS. Why did we do that? We did not do that with a backrest reflex the first day this came. We said, we have to see the government in the cards. We want to know if it's right that they 'are in danger' of this being sold out, because the Right does not have an allergy to state ownership. We mean, for example: that the head office argument is a justification for ownership. But the more we went through the agreement that was made, the more we saw of the matter, the more convinced we were that this was a kind of governance and a way of placing the state and taxpayers' money on which simply meant a transfer of money to a person who by this government was thus defined as being completely, and not villainy, as other business leaders were. The close and close links between the Prime Minister and Smoke contributed to an uncritical assessment of whether the State should enter or not into Aker. But then I have to ask that question: when you first do that, that is, for the first time into a company where there is a large majority that actually has the bay and both ends, how do you manage your ownership afterwards? Then we have expectations that the administration of state ownership will ensure extra good. The state hasn't. The Council of State has not done that. And that is really why this motion of censure is being put here today. The Council of State has simply not taken care of taxpayers' money. Governments have not ensured that there have been good enough lines of communication in the management of a company that has a different structure than any other company in which the state owns. We do not really know what economic consequences this has had for taxpayers. The only amount published is Pareto’s valuation, which says that through the transactions that the country has now approved, values of half a billion have been loaded over what they actually are and which they probably have as value. That means that half a billion dollars have been transferred from parts with state ownership to other parts, which are Smoke-Eid, in this process. That's not to worry about, and we haven't yet gotten on the table if that's right, and what numbers are clear and clear. I think it takes a particular vigilance to manage ownership of these types of companies, if you're going to go first. Then I have to say that at times I experienced that some of the reactions became a kind of acting, acting that was interesting in its timing and development. 14 days before the National Assembly of the Labour Party – when a major debate had first taken place in the media, when the criticism had been raised, both Prime Minister and the Council of State stood up and were angry, frustrated, had a great deal of aggression, but it was quite easy to figure out what substance it was in it. Once the National Assembly of the Labour Party had been one day, they let themselves down like soft lambs, and there was little left of frustration, aggression, and other things they did. I saw this as a pure acting to be active in managing the media. But the job of a government council is not just to handle the media. The job of a Council of State is to handle the interests of Norwegian citizens, the state's money, and that has not been done in this matter. I think there may be a lot of reasons why we can discuss how state ownership should be in the years to come. However, no matter what kind of ownership we have, one requirement must be made to state councils: Manage ownership in a way that makes it professional, that it takes care of the grantor, and the grantor is not the Aker group in this context, it is Norwegian taxpayers. That's not what the state councils have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1381	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1385	I think this post by the representative Erna Solberg confirms that the right here has really been after with the motion of censure, primarily a new debate on state ownership policy and the state's entry into Aker Solutions. I think it could have been achieved on a slightly less dramatic basis. Many of the examples she mentioned at the beginning of her speech are not, of course, the Minister of Industry who is responsible for it. When, at Easter, the Right announced the use of the liability law, i.e. whether it was a basis for national law, the representative Foss said it had been assessed. After hearing Solberg's articles, I wonder what mitigating circumstances have they found in this assessment, which has made it unfollowed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1392	We've assessed whether there's any basis for going that process. So we don't think there was any reason to go that far in this context. We've thought that when we have a sitting state council, and we can make mistrust proposals in the hall, that's what's the correct reaction here. But it's still a problem, including transparency, for example. in the assessment of the size of the financial transaction now contributed to Smoking by the Government. This is one of the reasons why we also had to assess whether the valuations had gone too far. And then we have trouble getting through the valuations, because the last valuation is not open in that way that you can go into the numbers. It's just a statement that it's a fair trade.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1397	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1400	I have a bit of a bad voice, so I have to supply myself with some water before I start.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1405	It's okay.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1408	The Aker case has been dealt with in depth by the Control and Constitutional Committee. The case rapporteur, Øystein Djupedal, presented the matter in a good and solid manner here at the beginning of the meeting. State Council Brustad has also had a solid and thorough review of the matter. This case clearly shows that it is many times wise to think a little about it before making up too strong opinions. The criticism part of the opposition went out with before the matter was thoroughly illuminated, is a little honorable. Let me immediately make it clear that there is a lot to learn from the Aker case. Disagreement on the shareholder agreement and the fact that it had to be clarified clearly shows it. In addition, the case shows the need for active ownership in order for the State to be able to take care of its interests. The main lesson of the Aker case is that state ownership must become even more active. This lesson also draws an overall Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs: ‘The Committee further points out that, during the examination of the case, there has been a broad political agreement that the Aker case underlines the need for active and conscious ownership by the State’. I note that there is now a cross-political consensus that the State must participate actively in order to safeguard its interests. It should really just be missing. Large businesses make important decisions that affect the lives of many thousands of employees and their families. Many communities stand and fall more or less on how these corner stone holdings work. In addition, such companies, not least Aker Solutions, have a major impact on industrial development in Norway. It is obvious that the State, among other things: through ownership, shall contribute to the determination of the development of such companies. The state’s acquisition of Aker Solutions through Aker Holding was made to ensure important industrial environments in Norway. Many people have thought a lot about the price of the companies that were sold to Aker Solutions, among others. from the way the share market reacted. I believe that one should not raise the stock market to a judge in this case. We have just been through a period in which many who have traded shares have been wrong. Not least, some so-called analysts in some financial institutions should go a little bit quieter in the doors. Rarely have so many taken so much mistakes in such a short time. I don't know how much companies Aker Solutions have bought up in, it's worth. I just recorded that there have been investigations of the price paid by Aker Solutions. The company UBS, which has had access to the company’s internal information, concludes that the price is reasonable. Others believe that the price is too high, but here I expect that it is possible that competent valuers can have different opinions. It is entirely possible to disagree that the State should own Aker Solutions. The opposition was divided at this point. The Progress Party supported the Aker agreement in 2007, while the Right, Christian People's Party and Left opposed the agreement. It is also fully possible to have completely different opinions as to what the country should own, which the opposition parties have also disagreed on. It seems to me that the opposition parties early painted themselves into a corner. The opposition went so high early, using so many words that a mistrust proposal became the natural, logical conclusion of the little thoughtful criticism. In an interview last week, the parliamentary leader of the Left, Lars Sponheim, admitted that he is not always very prepared when he speaks. He said, ‘If I’m going to be very honest, it’s often the way my head and ear hear it for the first time when I comment on something.’ The Aker case had probably been served that Sponheim and others from the opposition had spent a little longer time before expressing themselves as bastant as they did in this matter. The only opposition seems to agree on is to promote a distrust proposal. A motion of censure has been put forward in this Chamber, which has been much better justified than the proposal put forward in this case. The only reason I can see is that the election is approaching, and that the opposition is thus hoping they can hit the government. Moreover, the SV Group fully supports the Minister of Industry in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1442	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1445	It's interesting to listen to Ryan's representative. He says a good deal about the need to learn from this case – it in itself emphasizes that here are the things that have happened, which one should not have wanted to have happened. Then he came to say that the opposition "painted itself into a corner" with this mistrust suggestion. I assume that the representative Ryan knows the term ‘up like a bear and down like a skin trap’. I think it’s close to thinking about that expression in connection with the Brustad Council’s handling of this matter, from reacting violently the first days of April to coming out of this meeting in May and saying that they have accepted everything, and they will vote for it all. I think that's evidence that you've painted into a corner that you can't get out of. The state councils, the ministry and the government have painted themselves into a corner in Aker, which they will not let out of.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1450	I think the Council of State responded well to why in the situation that arose then, she was quite scratched in the statements. She felt that the information was deficient, and that she needed to say from how she felt the situation. I believe the Council of State has handled this matter in a good way. The Lånke starts out, if we see if there is anything critical that has happened, yes, we also believe that there is a need to go through the routines, so that the state ownership gets even better, and that one avoids this kind of situation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1457	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1460	The Christian People's Party is too state-owned in some cases to ensure control of natural resources, head office functions and environments of competence, but it has to be done on neat terms and not in the way we have seen in this matter. There has been a point made by the government parties that there is a connection between the Christian People's Party's position on the purchase in Aker and our position on this matter. Yeah, of course it's a connection. We're trying to be consistent. The Christian People's Party was opposed to the state's purchase in Aker Holding because we believed that the reason for the purchase was too poor, the price was too high, and the shareholder agreement secured Smoking too much influence at the expense of the state. That's this purchase we're now seeing the consequences of. The representative of Sørfonn had a very well-placed opinion in the debate on buying-in in Aker Holding when he said that if the vote was taken, i.e. the majority vote was taken, he would warn against the state becoming a sleeping partner in this agreement. A more accurate warning is long since it has been raised against a government council in this room. From Aker and the then Managing Director, Leif-Arne Langøy, the reaction to the agreement was as follows: ‘... a very first-class agreement for Aker’.» It was when it became known that the then Minister of Economic Affairs, Dag Terje Andersen, had committed the State to purchase shares in Aker Kværner equivalent to NOK 4.8 billion. It was right in Langøy, but it was not as good for Norwegian taxpayers. Many warned when the agreement became known. Jan Borgen of Tranparency International said to the Evening Post on June 25, 2007: ‘Government gives Smoking a fantastic gift package, so it’s obviously Smoke’s play with the Workers’ Party produces results.’ It was clear to us when the government bought up in Aker Holding, that this would be a very demanding solution when it came to following up ownership on behalf of the state. That is why I sympathise with the Brustad Council, which inherited such a poor agreement from its predecessor, State Council Dag Terje Andersen. State Council Brustad has also indirectly come up with criticism from State Councillor Andersen when she has acknowledged that the shareholder agreement he entered into had holes. At the same time, it should have just been clear to the Brustad State Council that she had to exercise a very special care and a particularly active ownership in this case in order to be able to safeguard the state's interests in the company in the best possible way, with the demanding assumptions that initially existed. She also had clear promises to fulfill to the voters. The government parties were crystal clear before the previous elections that they would ensure a more active state ownership. This is reflected in the Soria Moria Declaration that promised a “longer active” state ownership. In April 2009, the news came that Aker Solutions made a larger share purchase in five companies from Aker ASA. The transaction was negatively received on the stock exchange, and the share price in Aker Solutions ASA decreased by 15 pst. In the process prior to this trade, the State’s representative on the Board of Directors of Aker Holding and the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade have repeatedly had the opportunity to ask questions and ask for additional comments. The Council of State does not act until after the transaction has been concluded and is publicly known, and engages Pareto, who states that the state had paid about NOK 0.5 billion too much. Governments are going very hard on the Aker system to then capitulate at all points, except in the case of the requirement for transactions to be settled at general meetings – a general meeting in which the State, through Aker Holding, otherwise undertakes to vote for the transaction. There is reason to ask whether the Government's handling of this matter will be an example of the Government's ownership policy in the time to come. I do so on the basis of the opinions of representatives of the government parties in this matter and in this debate. The Advocate General, Øystein Djupedal, made his statement: ‘The government has done a good job’. Then you have to ask yourself if this is the standard you can expect in the future. There has been very little recognition on the part of the government parties and very little to hear from any regret on the part of the Council of State in this matter. The opposition shall, in accordance with the government statements of the parties, only be outside the Government. If it were that this was just a game from the opposition to hit the government, we would have been all alone to raise the criticism that comes out here in the debate. But we're not. The NRK's Kyrre Nakkim, which indicated that the state's acquisition of shares was the actual test of the government's so-called active ownership policy, believes that the government has failed that test. The economic commentator in the NRK, Steinar Mediaas, says that the government has made the government look like a ‘medium-sized municipality’, and it's hardly meant to be a compliment. [[...]] Frank Aarebrot, who has not been bought and paid by the opposition parties in this hall, says to E24: ‘It may just be the Kings Bay case that has been worse for a government than this case here. What's special is that it's so incredibly poorly handled." Unfortunately, the Christian People's Party agrees. Rarely have we been more tired of being right in such a serious warning as the representative Sørfonn gave when the state entered Aker Holding. So the representative, Hill-Marta Solberg, says that if the Council of State hadn't reacted in retrospect, when the transaction became known, there would be reason to criticise it. That's interesting. That's the fact that the council reacted after it was too late to push the transaction around, as we know now, that has saved her from criticism from her own in this room. I think that's reason for the Council of State to remember, because that means that it might not be as convenient a majority to protect her in this matter as it might seem. So the state council said in its statement that precisely because the state is a major owner of private companies, it is important that it is clear what the state should be part of, and what the state should not be part of, as I perceived the state council posts. I fully agree with that. But that's exactly where the heart of the matter lies. It wasn't clear. In our opinion, the Council of State gained enough knowledge to respond and to demand more knowledge to make sure that the clarity that she felt was so important was present. But she didn't in time. That's what the matter boils down to. A mistrust proposal is not daily food in Stortinget. There have been decades since an overall opposition came together on such a proposal. By the Christian People's Party, such proposals are not solved at all. That's why I don't at all accept the criticism from the government parties that this is something you do as part of a light political game. It's not. That's carefully considered. The Christian People's Party believes that it must have very serious relations to express distrust of a government council. The Ministry of Industry's handling of state ownership in this matter is so passive, so deficient and so unreliable that for our part we find the basis for this. I had hoped that the debate had shown that there was a degree of recognition on the part of the Council of State. But we have to bear in mind that it seems to be the opinion of the Council of State, as it is the opinion of the President-in-Office, that the Government has done a good job. Then the Christian People's Party has one thing to do, and that's to vote for the proposal of the minority in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1506	The matter is very well informed now at the bottom of the debate. Mr. Øystein Djupedal gave the case rapporteur a very thorough examination of the whole matter and, for the centre party's part, Ola Borten Moe in the post he made. There he underlined how the Center Party thinks in relation to state ownership. It was not least polite to hear his description of mistrust proposals that have been promoted in the past. The Committee concludes with something that is actually important for the Centre Party, which is in its suspension, which is about state ownership, and to which all the parties actually subscribe. It says: ‘The Committee considers that the matter illustrates the need for clarification of the country’s clear expectations as to the extent of company information of a strategic or industrial nature, how to inform the State, who should be informed, and the timing of such information.’;» And... ‘The Committee will also stress the need for the State which owns, in line with other industrial owners, to participate actively and clearly with clear, well-founded and independent positions relating to major strategic industrial dispositions in the company.’ For the Central Party it is important to confirm this in a setting. I just have one comment, and it's for Ola T. He says that the government parties ridicule the motion of censure. He used the word "laugh." I just want to stress and be very clear that the government parties – or the Central Party for that matter – do not at all ridicule a motion of censure. We believe that it is very serious, as also Dagfinn Højbräten stressed in his post, that a motion of censure is being promoted against one of the government's government councils. I believe that the debate has shown that the Government takes it most seriously when four opposition parties choose to promote a motion of censure against the Government. In fact, we believe that both the Government and the government parties here in the Chamber have shown that we are taking the most seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1525	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1528	The representative of the Skjärlaa underlined the comments of the majority – and from the Committee in general – that it might have been possible to clarify how to expect to be informed. I would like to ask a question to the Schjélaa: is it not also to be seen as a criticism that when you first enter into and cooperate with a company where there is a large owner, who can thus carry out completely different transactions within the company than you can many other owners, there should have been a proactive attitude, both from the former Minister of Industry, who signed the agreement, and from today's Minister of Industry, in order to ensure these information procedures?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1535	The Central Party stresses that the Council of State and the Government have full confidence. The comment that stands here is, in fact, an overall committee that is behind it. It says something about what you want, and how you want government ownership to be exercised. In fact, I am very pleased that the Right also stands behind such a clear and clear confirmation of how the State should act as owner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1542	When I ask for a reply, it is because of the statement from the representative, Mr Schjälaa, that the motion of censure is taken seriously, and that my use of the word ‘laughing’ is not correct. I am so glad that the representative Schjellaa says they do. Then I will also confront him with what his colleagues from the Workers' Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party of the Control Committee have written in the remark: ‘The majority record that the opposition promotes mistrust proposals against Brustad State Council. The majority note that the reason is not to be found in the Aker case, but in the hope that this will affect the Government.’ That's what I'm aiming for when I say that you try to ridicule – you don't go into the matter, but you say that we have gathered to ‘frame the government’, as it says. I'm going to ask that the Skjäla give his comment on this statement in relation to what he said himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1554	The background of that note is, among other things, that these four opposition parties, and the Christian People's Party as one of them, have very different reasons for the proposal. That's what this comment says. And it's far from saying from the government parties and the central party that one has different reasons, and that one wonders a little bit about the proposal, to say that it's a ridiculous suggestion, as our remark has been characterized. There's a sea of difference between the two things.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1559	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1562	After hearing the statements of the Council of State, I might have wanted to comment on a good part of it, but I'm going to leave it because of time and other circumstances. I just want to make a reservation for something that the Workers' Party's Chief Spokesman, Svein Roald Hansen, said. He asked in a line about which alternative government, among other things. The progress party would be in favour if this motion of censure had come forward. Then I would like to remind you that the proposal I had the pleasure of making expresses distrust of the Council of State Sylvia Brustad, not of the Government. It is only if the Prime Minister from this pulpit makes it clear that if the motion of censure were to be adopted, the whole government will go away, that there is a change of government. If this proposal submitted is to be adopted, it is only the State Council Sylvia Brustad who, under the new provisions of the Basic Law, is obliged to submit its application for removal. So it's not the whole government. And Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, who has been present, has not taken the opportunity to go to the pulpit and ask a cabinet question or make it known that it is about the entire government. So this proposal is all about one state council. I would like it to be included in the record, so Svein Roald Hansen's misunderstanding with regard to the constitutional situation should not be contradicted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1573	I will not, as the rapporteur on the matter, try to sum up this debate. There will be different views on the debate and the content of the matter. Let me just stress, on behalf of the majority, that of course we very well understand the seriousness of a motion of censure. If that is not the case in the vote and in the debate, let me be very clear: we recognise not only the opposition's natural right to promote mistrust but also the opposition's natural right to define the reason for a motion of censure. That's what the opposition has done. We have both written, through the setting, and verbally explained why we think this is thin – or should we say deficient – justified from the point of view of the position, and that, in our view, there are probably other, external, elements in this. But it is clear – we recognise, as the representative of Højbräten, the representative of Lånke and several others have pointed out, that when the opposition comes together on a motion of censure, it is, of course, taken both in government and in the majority here in Stortinget in the utmost seriousness and is then dealt with, especially because this is the first motion of censure that has been raised against representatives of our government in this period. It's probably tempting for the opposition to be able to do it before, but they haven't. I just wanted it to be very explicit from the Great Council that we do not take it lightly when mistrust proposals are promoted. We have dealt with the matter in committee and, moreover, with the seriousness of a motion of censure. Then, of course, I am well pleased that the motion of censure does not have a majority, and our parties here in Stortinget have given a thorough explanation of why we do not believe that there is a basis for distrust, why Sylvia Brustad has our strong support, and why the Government has strong support in Stortinget. But it is outside just to justify this with distrust, something in particular the representative Højbrätten had to do. You just have to know that we're taking this very seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1582	I will not extend the debate, just thank Carl I. Hagen for the informative lecture on the consequences of a motion of censure against one Council of State. But if that's the scenario that the representative Hagen had seen if this was going to have a majority in this room, then it might also explain that I did not get an answer from the representative, Siv Jensen, about which government alternative you saw in case there was a government change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1587	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1599	During the debate, Mr Hagen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right and the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1644	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1653	Then we're back to the normal state. What we are about to discuss now is a proposal from the representatives of big business Torbjørn Hansen, Jan Tore Sanner and Gunnar Gundersen on the liquidation of Aker Holding so that the state becomes a direct shareholder in Aker Solutions ASA. In November 2007, the state’s ownership of Aker Holding was established and adopted here in Stortinget. I will just make a few brief comments on the matter. I do feel that a large part of this has been debated earlier today, that we have discussed the various aspects of this matter. The task of a majority of the Committee is that Aker Solutions is an important competence job with more than 20 000 permanent staff and with activities in many countries. It is also true that Aker Solutions is very important for large parts of Norway. The company is located along the coast and is also one of Norway’s largest private employers. I think that's important. It is also a company that has world-leading competence that is absolutely crucial. Now the minority will certainly explain their views, as they have done in the vote, and promote the proposal that exists there, so I will not go into it. What has been important for the majority to take into account is that a policy is pursued that is a large Norwegian company, and that Norwegian jobs are taken care of, and that the head office functions can also be in Norway, and that the company will also operate from Norway in the future. We in the Progress Party have been concerned with the need for the professionalisation of state ownership by having as much indirect ownership as possible that can distinguish policy from professional ownership management. But that – which was also the subject of the previous debate – means that there are active government representatives, who can conduct that policy in a good way and who are thus awake. Then I would recommend the Committee's position, and then I expect the minority to explain their views. Sigvald Uppøen Hansen had here taken over the president's seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1678	In 2007, the State acquired 30 pst. of the axans of Aker Holding AS. It's well-known, not least after the debate we've had this morning. Such an acquisition is entirely in line with the Government's active industrial policy. Through this purchase, the state contributed to a long-term and strategic ownership of one of Norway's most important industrial companies, which this government also established in the Soria Moria Declaration. There is cross-political consensus on national ownership and securing head office functions in Norway, when the state is a giant in this way and has economic muscles to do so. In addition to national ownership and the head office function, there is also reason to mention the good research activity associated with the industrial development of the company. Not surprisingly, the Right and Left are not so occupied with good and active state ownership. They showed this clearly in both the Bondevik I and Bondevik II governments, where business neutrality was the headline of the industrial policy they pursued. The usual responses from the civil parties are cut in taxes and charges. There are no active industrial policies. When, through this proposal for a representative, the proposers want to wind up Aker Holding AS, so that the state will become a direct shareholder in Aker Solutions ASA, it is in our opinion not reasonable to continue to have the objective and intention underlying the acquisition, among other things. the ten-year long-term agreement which is of particular importance. Against this background, the Labour Party would recommend that the proposal be rejected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1689	The debate on the government's handling of the Aker Holding case this winter has been held, and so has the debate on the purchase of these shares in Aker Holding in 2007. The reason why the Right takes up the proposal in the vote to wind up Aker Holding is that there is a possibility of such liquidation in the shareholder agreement. It is mentioned directly in the shareholder agreement. It appears that the company may be wound up if the shareholders so agree. The right considers that the experience with ownership in Aker Holding clearly points to the fact that this type of state ownership structure is unfortunate for several reasons. Let me first stress that the Right is not the principal opponent of all state ownership. The State has direct holdings in a number of companies, and the Right has no plans to sell out all these shareholdings. Nor do we support the proposal in the vote to sell the shares in Aker Solutions in the situation we have in Norwegian business today. But for the Right, it's very important that state ownership is professional and tidy. Professional State ownership is necessary in order to ensure the sound management of Community financial resources. A professional state ownership must exist in order to ensure sound ownership management in relation to other shareholders of companies within the country. A professional state ownership is important to ensure a stable framework around important activities and jobs in Norway. The exercise of professional ownership is not always straightforward. The exercise of ownership by the State is from time to time debated, also for the companies in which the State has direct ownership. However, I would like to stress that the state has quite a degree of respect for its professionalism in the exercise of ownership, through a competent ownership department. The problem with Aker Holding is that this part of ownership in the arrangement deviates fundamentally from the direct ownership items that the State is used to managing. Instead of normal ownership through participation in general meetings and electoral committees, the State has indirect ownership here. You have a shareholder agreement, and you have a directly elected board representative in Aker Holding. Of course, it is commendable that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee now considers that there is a need to clarify the country’s expectations for information in relation to this ownership. But it also shows that the proceedings in this ownership structure appear unclear to the Government. Unclearness in corporate governance is very unfortunate. In my view, Aker ASA has a long way to go in interpreting the terms of the shareholder agreement regarding the proceedings and information to the shareholders. The right considers that the State must participate in ownership in a much clearer way. In addition to confusion, there are several serious objections to this ownership structure. First, the State transfers control of the shares owned by the State to another shareholder. This gives this other shareholder greater power over the underlying corporations than the shareholder's own shareholding should be. There is no doubt that this transfer of power is unfortunate. It's just the exercise of this power of ownership that's left to another shareholder, which is the background for the whole Aker Holding case that we're dealing with instead. It is also the case that the binding agreement between the shareholders of Aker Holding locks the country’s ownership position in a way that weakens its values. The fact that the State cannot dispose of its own shares in certain situations can cause an economic loss to the State. It is a device that in the stock market normally gives a so-called stock discount. At the same time, this special device gives a rather incorrect impression of the protection afforded by this ownership for activities and jobs in Aker Solutions. It is obvious that the main owner has an influence which allows both major changes in the underlying activities of the enterprise, relocation of jobs out of the country and large withdrawals from this company without any intervention by the State as a shareholder. Thus, the idea is that the locking mechanism ensures the workplaces, relatively illusory. Therefore, the right considers that all shareholders of Aker Holding could benefit from the fact that Aker Holding was wound up, so that the owners had a direct ownership in the usual way. This would also be quite positive for the other minority shareholders in Aker Solutions, because such a clean-up and strengthening of the corporate structure could provide a better value for the entire company. All in all, I believe that the experience with the Aker Holding investment, both in 2007 and what has taken place now in 2009, clearly confirms that this type of ownership structure should remain far away from the State. I also think that part of the government parties see that, but otherwise it would be very interesting to know whether it could have been relevant for this government to enter into the corresponding purchase and agreement with other owners in the Norwegian business community.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1721	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1724	The Christian People's Party stresses that national ownership is important in some cases to ensure that companies have head offices and research activities in Norway. But it has to happen on neat terms and not as we've seen in Aker-saka. The Christian People's Party voted against the state's purchase in Aker Holding in 2007, precisely because the purchase was a poor foundation, the price was too high, and the state's influence was too small. The government did not use financial expertise in connection with the purchase. The Swedish investor group concluded an agreement that won them against losses and an opportunity to sell the ownership part. The State and Aker ASA on their side entered into an agreement with ten years of commitment. Aker ASA's sale of five companies to Aker Solutions AS, a subsidiary of Aker Solutions ASA, at a value of approximately NOK 2 billion was carried out with effect on 2 April this year, and it has just been treated in this room. The government's problem with managing the internal transactions is an indication that this is a complex structure for the state, by being a minority owner in a holding company of a listed company together with a dominant private owner. The Christian People's Party believes that the model chosen by the state strengthens the influence of a selected major shareholder in the underlying company, with the challenges it poses when it concerns corporate governance and internal transactions. The state's investment in Aker Holding is not in itself an obstacle to the sale, relocation and conversion of the underlying companies, and it is uncertain whether the investment ensures jobs. On the contrary, it has been claimed that the purchases made increase the financial obligations of the underlying group. On the other hand, the State has a long experience of direct ownership as the owner model for such large shareholdings. Such a model is more neat, and it is transparent when it relates to power structure. By the fact that Aker, the Swedish owners and the state become the direct owners of Aker Solutions ASA, the owners will be able to exercise the influence of the actual ownership and provide the company with a more normal governance structure. Better corporate governance will be positive for the values of an listed entity. Against this background, the Christian People's Party supports the proposal to wind up Aker Holding and replace the indirect ownership with direct ownership of Aker Solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1743	The draft representative that we are discussing today has been debated in depth in the past. This applies both to the country’s ownership and ownership policy. So I'm not going to go in and repeat the arguments that have been made in the past. The left voted against the state's purchase of Aker Solutions ASA on the grounds that the agreement submitted to Stortinget was not a good agreement. I would also claim that the reason for the purchase from the Government was unclear. The government paid almost DKK 5 billion for one of Norway's richest men to sit on all sides of the table for ten years, where the state as a minority owner has almost no right to have important decisions in the company. According to the agreement, smoking could still sell parts of the business of what the Government was so afraid of, ‘some unknown Norwegian or foreign investors’. Then comes all of the issues that the government parties' representatives have been so concerned about in the last four years: the active industrial policy by interfering in the composition of the board, the size of dividends and the management salaries of companies where the government is a significant owner. None of these conditions really have any effect on the State through the ownership of Aker Holding. The Left therefore believes that the Government must take the initiative towards the other owners of Aker Holding to wind up the company. Of course, it has to be done in a clean and predictable manner, and it has to be done at a time when the state's funds are being spent in such a situation. Therefore, the Left will not make any concrete proposals about it now, but in our note we ask the Government to take the initiative to work towards it. The left will not support the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party in this matter. It's a good attempt to make a difficult situation better, but I think there'll still be uncertainties and problems because the government is going to be holding holdings in companies that are going to compete with each other in retrospect. StatoilHydro is a company on the track. I think it's unfortunate that the state has ownership in several companies that are going to compete with each other in different ways. Therefore, the Left will support the position of the majority on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1756	State involvement in Aker Holding AS is involved in ensuring Norwegian anchoring of Aker Solutions ASA. It is, as was said in the previous debate, an important technology and industrial company of great importance for Norwegian value creation and Norwegian jobs. It is this government's basic position that it is positive that forward-looking activities are being developed in Aker Solutions, and there was also an important reason why the state went into the owner's side. The proposal from the Right implies that the State takes the initiative to liquidate the ownership model that the State, Aker, Saab and Investor agreed to establish in 2007. As is known by a shareholder agreement, the State is obliged to own 30 pst. by Aker Holding for 10 years. The other partners in Aker Holding invested with the state, and I am not aware that they want to conclude this agreement. It has therefore not been disclosed without notice that the contract may be terminated only if the State so wishes. Nor should we forget that the state entered Aker Holding as a long-term and stable owner to ensure Norwegian anchoring and an important technology environment for the oil and gas sector. In this context, it would have been unnatural for the state to require a sales option, as the Swedish owners have. Secondly, the model of indirect ownership of Aker Solutions is good in meeting the country’s objective of ownership. Through the shareholder agreement, the country with a relatively limited financial investment has ensured control of important issues, such as changes to the statutes, head office and related transactions. We would not have had such control if the Right had received a pass for its proposal. The fact that we have now had a discussion about the interpretation of the provision in the share law does not change the influence of the state on internal transactions through today's model. The model of indirect ownership also ensures long-term and stable ownership through a large holding of over 40 pst. remain together for a longer period. That is what we believe in itself is important. This, in my opinion, contributes more to ensuring a good industrial development for Aker Solutions than if the country had been a minority shareholder in the company with 12 pst. of the shares, as proposed by the Right. Spring events have revealed a need and mutual desire to re-examine the shareholder agreement. That is why, as we know now, we are going to make clarifications in that agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1771	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1774	Predictability is important in ownership policy. It is important that society and the Storting know how the Government operates in relation to ownership, especially in relation to buying-in. The purchase in 2007 came without warning. We had dealt with the staging message about ownership just before. There was not a word about new purchases in the Norwegian business community, nor was there a word about a new ownership model that we got in relation to Aker Solutions. It could therefore be interesting to get a comment from the Council of State on whether she believes this is a model that can be used in connection with new purchases. Because we have other owners in Norwegian business who have large shareholdings in listed companies, who can also imagine parking them with the state at a reasonable time. Let me mention important companies like Marine Harvest and Orkla. Will the State then be ready with the Oil Fund to be a parking lot if these shareholders want to sell out their shares?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1784	It becomes very clear – also in the debate we now have – that the Right is against this, and I assume that is why you are proposing to wind it up. We believe that in 2007 it was right to go into the way we did, because we are very concerned that we are able to keep the important technology company, as Aker Solutions is, in Norwegian hands. When it comes to the question of any new purchases or changes, I don't really want to wonder about it. We'll decide when it might come from companies. We're dealing with it continuously, in a very common way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1791	It is given the impression that this matter went reasonably quickly during the preparation, but of course contact was made – and advice was given – within the department. Now it is the case that the State also owns other companies that have competence in this, such as the United Kingdom. Statoil and Hydro. At that time there were two companies. It might be interesting to know if there was any signal from those companies, if there was any good advice on how to act in relation to such a purchase that was made. Then there has also been a lot of talk about that there was a risk that foreign investors would come and threaten Norwegian jobs. My question is, can the Council of State suggest which foreign investors might have shown their interest, so that there was so much urgency about going into what was done here?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1798	It is a little difficult for me to answer in detail everything in this regard, as I did not have such a detailed responsibility for that matter. I'm asking for an understanding of that. Therefore, I cannot answer any advice that might have been given from other companies. What I can say is that when you proposed this purchase and went in, and the Storting joined it, it happened the way it was supposed to. It was a legal review, and it was a company that was analyzed, which was known for the market. What was the government's reason for doing that, was, as I said, that we were very busy keeping this in Norwegian hands. We are pleased that we have had an agreement on this, at least for ten years, because we believe it is essential – including for Norwegian jobs – that important decisions are taken here with us and not in other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1805	The Council of State went very hard on Aker in April and demanded that the transactions be dealt with at a general meeting or that they be reset. Later, she has turned her mind around and said that she was happy that a general meeting was held, where the government committed itself to voting for all transactions. But when the General Assembly was to be held, it was not natural for the Ministry of Industry and Trade to set up. ‘We are the indirect owner of Aker Solutions through Aker Holding, and then Aker Holding is the representative.’ This says Secretary of State Øyvind Slag to VG. The E24 commentator Per Valebrokk concluded that: ‘The management of the Aker case by the Steeltenberg Government goes from poor to hysterical.’ Does this not show that it would have been better if the state had had a direct ownership of Aker Solutions instead of the special model of indirect ownership through Aker Holding?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1822	No, we think this is a good model because we achieve more in terms of negative control here, i.e. important decisions for Norway and for Norwegian jobs, by organizing it the way it is done in this case. So I want to distance myself from being completely reversed by me, the Government, or by the state in this matter. We have – in line with Saab and Investor – said that there were three things that were particularly important here. One was to get an independent review. That's what we got. The second was to have a general meeting. That's what we got. And the third was to make sure that we do what we can -- and that's in everyone's interest -- not to come up with such a situation in the future. That's why we're also changing the shareholder agreement. So saying that there's been a complete revolution here, and that nothing has been achieved, is actually wrong. I'm glad we've got a solution. And I'm glad – on behalf of the whole shareholder democracy – that it became a general assembly so that also 60 pst. of the other shareholders were given the opportunity to think something about this. Otherwise, it is quite normal for large owners to agree in advance, as has been done in this case as well. It happens in other companies look and often.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1831	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1836	This has been a very interesting day for those who are engaged in Norwegian business and ownership. There are many important companies in Norwegian business, and the Government could perhaps focus on building a broad – both private and public – ownership in Norway, thus ensuring it. The case around Aker Solutions and Aker Holding should provide a lesson to avoid any loss. I noticed that the representative Eldegard said this was a long-term ownership of one of the main industrial companies in Norway. There is, of course, an indirect ownership of many of the most important ownerships in Norway, because — through Aker Holding — there is a structure of ownership that may not be appropriate. Here they put themselves in the back seat in great confidence that there was another owner who wanted to do the job for the state. It may have been the admiration of Nesegrus that was the beginning, and then one was very disappointed when it turned out that the shareholder might not have quite the same interests as the state had in every respect. The lesson should be that all capitalists and all shareholders should be treated equally and that the State has a responsibility not to place anyone in a special position. I feel like you've done that here. Many of the reactions after the disaster came to the public indicated that ownership was driven by a panic reaction. For that state council said in the line change earlier today, it was quite precise: to meet in the general meeting, you actually have to be a shareholder. Had she understood this from the beginning, she might not have made the statements she made, because then the state asked for a special treatment of the state as a shareholder. They wanted to reverse agreements that had already been signed, which had become known to everyone. How would you have dealt with other shareholders, who might have already reacted to the transactions by either selling or buying on the stock exchange, where this was listed? How could you have reversed everything against them? There is a lot of evidence here that ownership policies were pursued via a panic reaction when the scope of the case became known. As I said, the state sat in the backseat and trusted that others would do the job they had earned. I think that's an experience that you have to learn from -- that the state is earned to take direct ownership when you're going to take ownership. Then you have to take ownership that is big enough to achieve the goals you have. Otherwise, one should stay away from mixing one's interests with another's.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1847	I felt the presence of the representative, Gundersen, in order to refute the fact that we have asked for special treatment on this matter on behalf of the state. I also want to remember what I actually said on behalf of the state before Easter. It was: general assembly or zero position. Some have tried to make ‘or’ ‘and’. That's the one. The second is that this was something we were together with Saab and Investor about too. It has usually been known to us from the day one that we should not be present personally – I would almost say – at this general meeting in Aker Solutions. That's not the point. We're not direct shareholders there, so it's perfectly obvious that we shouldn't be. I don't understand those who criticize us for not being there. It would have been very inexorable if we had been there. Obviously, it was our representative via Aker Holding that was there. I am recording that we on the part of the government parties have a maritime disagreement with the Right in this matter. We believe that this is a good model for Norwegian jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1856	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 4012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1872	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the President of the case, 5 minutes to each of the party groups, or 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five replies be given within the allocated speaking time after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1881	This matter has been raised by the Committee's minority of one third, as a matter of its own, inter alia. after consultation and public attention of Uniteam AS. This matter has been going on in the media for a long time, because Uniteam has actually been boycotted by his most important customer, the defense, after the defense had also reported Uniteam for various matters, since Uniteam should have had preferential transfers and Uniteam should have tried to trick the defense – that is, fraud of the Defense. The story we got from Uniteam was quite different from what has happened in the public space. To this end, the Committee decided to open up the case and took views in a number of letters to the Minister of Defence. We also received enquiries from Uniteam. It was also decided to hold a hearing. I refer to the setting, where the record of what was said in the inspection hearing has been included. What is quite clear is that the defense looks at some purchases from Uniteam of some containers, first in 2002 and then new container purchases in 2003, completely different from the production from Uniteam. The defence claims that this was the case in 2003, was a single supplier situation, which was subject to a very special regulation, where Uniteam was allowed to have a profit margin of less than 1 pst, regardless of the fact that there was a contract of more than 100 million. kr, and that there was a very high risk involved. It's the defense's manufacture. In a subsequent review, in the context of the Dalseide reports and the Dalseide Committee’s investigation into the existence of preferential transfers, a number of documents were examined on this purchase. The thing that was claimed, and that has never been contradicted by Uniteam, is that there were two sets of invoices from some subcontractors that could indicate that something had been done wrong. However, Uniteam’s explanation has been that when the defense approached the company in September 2003, they were in urgent need of several command-place containers. When there was a corresponding open invitation to tender, where it was referred to as ‘the tenderers’ and ‘the tenderers’, etc. – it was quite clear that it was an invitation to tender – they submitted a tender and received a very short notice after the tender was announced, approx. 120 million. kr for a certain number of containers were accepted. They would then come to a meeting where this was to be clarified and signed. This did not happen, but they were told to start producing these containers, and the contract amount, the final amount, was accepted by the Defence. Then they were told that they had to draw up and sign some special forms, so that the paper and documentable was in order for the defence's internal systems. They got some new forms, which they had to sign and correct. They were told that this was only pro forma, to satisfy the defense's internal systems. The price of the containers was the same all the time, and the defense had accepted it. But there had to be some calculations for this where the cost was distributed in a different way. They were not told, they believe, that it was an exclusive supplier agreement, subject to very special things. There have been various attempts on the part of the committee to get the defence to prove that they should have understood that the defence felt there was a special form field and special contractual provision for sole suppliers. This defence has not been at all close to being able to document. So there are two different presentations of the case. Under the contract, which was signed later, any disagreements were to be resolved with dialogue and discussion. The defence has not been interested in any areas of dialogue with the company, until a meeting relatively recently, after the company was notified. The breach of contract on the part of the defence had been raised in the committee as a matter of its own. What we're facing is a review. There are two owners of Uniteam, not the company itself. The case has now been in Rome's police chamber for a little over two years. There has not yet been an appeal or a case raised, which, in my opinion, is in itself a scandal in the judiciary, when we know that the company has been the subject of a so-called non-normalised relationship – which in Norwegian means full boikot – on the part of the Defence. Any attempt by the company to submit a tender to the Defence Agency has been rejected. What it has cost The defence of more expensive containers from others will only be able to reveal later inspections. We're facing a situation where there are two different representations. The Committee on Control shall consider whether the political judgement exercised by the Minister of Defence is sound. The defence is clearly the basis for implementing, under public procurement rules, a non-normalised relationship. None of us have raised doubts about it. The question is, is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is is That's what we've been busy about, and I've been especially concerned about. I see quite clearly that where there is a supplier company that has clearly recognised and accepted that it has acted illegitimately and has committed criminal acts, or where there is a juridical judgment against a company, it is natural to have a non-normalized relationship – until drastic changes have occurred in a company. But it does not exist in this case. So there are two perceptions of reality. The company and the owners themselves claim that they have done nothing wrong but that they were persuaded by the defence people to receive a double set of invoices, in order to substantiate the price that the defence had already accepted. And there has been no dialogue or attempt by the Defense to find solutions to this. The non-normalised situation has so far removed at least 38 jobs in a good enterprise in Grimstad – an enterprise that could be an important supplier in the future – and led to a partial decrease elsewhere in this company. I think that's completely unreasonable. I think, on behalf of the Progress Party, that when a boycott is to be carried out, there is no doubt that the basis for the idea of boycotting the company as a punishment for a previous incident is real. And it's really either by the fact that there's a judicial verdict, or that the company itself has recognized that they've cheated. That's not the case here. Therefore, we think it should be far more important for the Defence to acquire containers – among others. to our foreign forces in Afghanistan — at the best possible quality and at the best possible price, also with a view to preserving Norwegian jobs, and not removing them until they are fully convinced and certain in their case that something has happened that is contrary to the law. Obviously, it's not like that in this situation. That is why we are promoting the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to suspend the non-normalised relationship with Uniteam until a final judgment against Uniteam may be given following a possible appeal by the Public Prosecutor’s Office and judicial proceedings.’ This is much stronger and more consistent with what a professor from KOFA said at the hearing, namely that the burden of proof that something was really wrong had to lie on those who would carry out the non-normalized relationship. So this is not a simple and straightforward matter, as the police have not yet been able to raise a case after two years. The facts have been undisputed and clear to all, even though, during the committee's proceedings, there have been leakages in the world about the submission of evidence by the Minister of Defence. That documentation had been made known to the Committee a long time ago. There has been no dispute at all. I think the defense should be a crayon, good and proper customer who demands of his suppliers. Boikott of establishments shall not take place until either a judgment or a recognition has been given. The doubt must be brought to the fore. The defendants are in this case the Unite, and no one has let any doubt benefit them. I would like to raise the motion for a resolution by the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities. 1 and 2, which is included in the vote on page 16, while I can also make it known that the Progress Party will vote As I assess the matter, this is a scandal, which is perhaps going to put the Ministry of Defence in very poor light, and possibly also leads to a quite significant case of compensation – it will be up to the courts to decide. That is the political discretion we criticize in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1916	The representative Carl I. Hagen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1919	As the opinion shows, the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party consider that it is unfortunate that the minority has used its opportunity to bring the conflict between the Ministry of Defence and the Unitteam before the Storting while the case is still under investigation by the police. I therefore do not want to go into the facts of the case, except to point out that the current legislation provides the basis for establishing a so-called non-normalised relationship with companies when the buyer has the basis to say that the supplier has committed serious misconduct against ethical and professional requirements, as Carl I. Hagen also underlined in his statement. The majority believe that it is indisputable that the department of another government council during the previous enlargement period thus had the basis for responding to Uniteam. Where the majority considers this to be an unfortunate use of minority rights in the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee, it is justified on an important basis by the Constitution, namely the doctrine of the distribution of power between the legislator, the executive and the judiciary. This implies that the Storting must be careful about the issues addressed. I will refer to comments from the Right and Christian People's Party in the Inner East. S. No 273 for 2002–2003, where these lots at that time pointed out that: ‘there are clear objections of a constitutional nature by dealing as a matter of concern with matters which have been partially dealt with in the judicial system and which are partly dealt with in the judicial system. These members point to the fact that, on the basis of the principle of power distribution on which the Constitution is based, the courts have a position of independent state power. This means that the Stortinget and the Government cannot challenge the decisions of the Court of Justice or try to influence those decisions. The majority has a tradition of showing considerable restraint in dealing with issues related to a specific case under court proceedings, and these members believe that there are strong reasons why the Storting should maintain such an approach.’ We believe that this view should also apply when a relationship has been reported to the police and is under investigation. It is a pity these parties have now changed their attitude in an attempt to encroach on the existing Council of State for a relationship established under the previous government. I should also like to refer to Document No. 14 for 2002-2003, adjustment of the Frøiland Committee, page 58, column one where it is established: ‘In general, this means that the control shall be anchored in the relations of the Council of State, but may also aim at identifying errors and deficiencies in the administration which are not directly related to the relations of the Council of State. On the other hand, the Committee shall not exercise control over private legal entities.’;» The question of Uniteam has broken the law is for police treatment. The outcome of the notification and any legal proceedings should have been awaited before the matter was brought before the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. The task of the size is to verify that satisfactory control systems are in place and that the management acts in accordance with the applicable legislation. It is not Storting's job to act as a court of law, and this is how it can easily be understood when one goes into a case that is under police investigation. With regard to the proposal from the Right and the Christian People's Party to ask the Government to clarify the legislation on the use of non-normalised relationships with suppliers, the Ministry of Renewal is already working on this. I therefore see no need for such a decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1949	It's easy to see that it's late in the session when you accuse the Right of having a different view of the distribution of power. I can reassure the representative and everyone else that this has not been done by the Right. We're not dealing with a case before the courts. We also do not deal with a matter that has been reported to the police. We deal with the ‘relationships of the Councils’ to quote from the Frøiland Committee, from which the previous speaker just quoted. In this context, the State Council’s relationship is an assessment of the discretion of the State Council in excluding this company or, as it is called, a ‘non-normalised relationship’. It is a question of principle quite interesting, of a regulation – not a law, but a regulation – laid down by the administration can enable a department to crack a supplier company. The method is very simple: Report – and the report has now been for two and a half years, despite the fact that consultants who helped the department also help the police with the investigation. It's a fundamentally interesting question, which I'll leave in this context. So there is no point yet. Then you can use the notification as a justification for introducing a so-called non-normalized relationship, i.e. the boicotte enterprise, and actually risking the company going bankrupt. It's an exercise of discretion that I think is critical. In this specific case, I have no idea who is entitled to the rights of the two parties. There are two different perceptions of reality. But on one point I have formed an opinion through the hearing. It is that the Ministry of Defence in the process, which was perceived as a tender, never clarified when the tender went from being a tender to becoming an exclusive supplier. There are different rules for tenders and for being an exclusive supplier, and it is the duty of the Ministry to provide information in this process. I believe that this is an omission that does not necessarily affect the police report, but should be part of the judgement assessment, namely whether or not you should use the right to exclude the company – a non-normalised relationship, as it is called – or not. It is the discretion of the Council of State this setting is about, and I understand very well that the government parties are unable to go into yet another assessment of the discretion of this Council of State. On that basis, I take up proposal No. 3, from the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, where we ask the Government, on the basis of a recognition that it is the right of the Government, or the right of the Ministry, to assess exclusion, «assess to re-establish a normalisation of the relationship with the Uniteam as soon as possible». It doesn't necessarily weaken the police report, but at least it does save jobs. I also refer to proposal No. 4, from the right and Christian party, which reads, ‘The Government asks the Government to clarify the regulatory framework for the use of non-normalised relationships with suppliers as soon as possible. Such clarification must take sufficient account of the supplier’s legal security needs.’;» When the representative Svein Roald Hansen says it's working in the government, it's a mild exaggeration. Because what the Ministry of Renewal has done is to reduce a sample. And what do you do if you want to win time? Indeed, a sample is set up to review the entire public procurement legislation, with the mandate to make it more clear. The paragraph that allows for the introduction of so-called non-normalised conditions, KOFA itself – i.e. the Board of Appeal – and its board of directors are so unclear that they have asked the Department to look at this special paragraph. The Ministry answers by saying that they want to look at the whole code. That is why the expression 'fastest' in our proposal is important, because this ambiguity will live for a long time if no proposal is adopted. 4th@item: inlistbox I would ask that the voting order be set up in such a way that the subsidiary support of the Progress Party for proposals No. 3 and 4 can be obtained.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1969	The representative Per-Kristian Foss has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1972	I'll be brief, because Svein Roald Hansen has done very well for what is the majority's view. I feel the need to take the floor because this is a matter of principle, namely, in the balance between court and magnificence. This matter is under investigation, and therefore I must say that I am surprised that this matter has been brought before the monitoring committee in Stortinget. The hearing showed with all possible clarity that this matter was premature for political treatment. This means that I do not rule out – nor does the majority – that it could have been right at some point that this matter had come to the control committee, when the matter had been clarified, when the investigation had been completed and, if necessary, when it had been brought to trial, if necessary, that the judicial system had also dealt with it. This is something in time. This means that, based on the content of the case – it shows the consultation with all the possible clarity – this case is obviously not mature for political treatment at the level that some here have conducted and dealt with it. That is the majority's reason for not dealing with it. It has nothing to do with the discretion of the Council of State or other external things, which I heard the representative Foss and others were in the house. This is simply about such a simple principle as that when one case is being dealt with by the police, this is unfortunate of us, in the interests of the different pillars of democracy – we are one arrows and not within the other pillars, which are at the heart of the role of the courts and the police in this. That's the principle rationale of the majority. It's important to hold on to this. It is also interesting to see that in the past, the minority in the Committee has also stated the same point of view, but now, probably because it is opportunistic, chooses to falsify the opposite point of view. I find that unfortunate because of the role of the Storting in this. That's the principle rationale that we have.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e1981	This control case concerns an unresolved contractual relationship between the Ministry of Defence and the company Uniteam International AS, which returns to autumn 2003. However, the direct cause of the case is that the Ministry of Defence notified the company Uniteam International AS and two individuals in the firm for serious fraud against the Defence in connection with the conclusion of the contract three years earlier, in May 2004. The two mentioned individuals who were notified and subsequently targeted are no longer part of the management of the Unitteam, and the company was not targeted for further investigation, so that it is outside this. The notification was then followed up by the Ministry of Defence by introducing a so-called non-normalised relationship with Uniteam International AS, as several have pointed out here. The Christian People's Party notes that this matter is very complicated, and that it has been difficult to determine to what extent the Committee and the Storting should go into it. One of the important questions is whether, during the 2003 contract negotiations, Uniteam was in a so-called exclusive supplier situation and to what extent this was sufficiently clarified to the leadership of Uniteam that it should have agreed with it. It seems clear both from the documents of the case and from the minutes of the hearing that the representations of the two parties are based on two widely different perceptions of reality, in which the claim is opposed. The Christian People's Party agrees with the representatives of the government parties that, on the basis of the principle of the distribution of power in the Constitution, the Storting should be restrained from going into matters that are under police investigation or under legal proceedings. In concrete terms, it is not up to the Storting to take sides with someone on the blame question. This is entirely a matter for the court and the judiciary. That's how far we agree. On the other hand, we do not agree with the consideration of the representative, Mr Djupedal, who claims that this is all about, because it is not. That someone here should have changed their mind along the way was completely unknown to the undersigned. But when it comes to the question of whether it would be right over time to maintain a non-normalized relationship with a company, in this case Uniteam, it requires a decision that, in our opinion, is primarily not about jus, but about political judgement. The question has therefore not been whether or not it was justified to do so by the Defence Department, but whether or not it was reasonable politically and whether or not it was the proper exercise of the functions of the Council of State. The matter is therefore solely the responsibility of the Committee for the control of the performance of its duties and the political actions of the Council of State. It seems clear that the maintenance of a non-normalized relationship with a company that Uniteam over time had to have major consequences both for the company and for employees. What strengthens the seriousness of the matter is that it happens without the matter being brought before the court. And what makes it difficult for the Storting is that it's about a public acquisition where a government agency blacklists a company. The maintenance of a non-normalised relationship over this long period must be assumed to have damaged the company and contributed to endangering jobs. It's serious. In this context, we also refer to the statements made by Professor Kai Krüger, a member of the Public Acquisition Complaints Board, KOFA, during the open hearing of the investigation, and reproduced in the committee's position. I'm not going to spend time quoting him. The Christian People's Party is of the opinion that in a situation where the persons reported in the case are no longer part of the management of the company, it may seem unreasonable that a government agency continues to maintain a non-normalized relationship with the company. It must be stressed that the matter is very complicated, that the investigation has taken a long time, and that no appeal has yet been made. This helps to strengthen the pressure against the company Uniteam. Furthermore, we cannot ignore the fact that Uniteam had been a continuous supplier of defence from 1992 without any comments on ethical standards until 2007, i.e. for 15 years. As far as we are aware, only one contract from 12 May 2004 has been disputed. Our impression is that users throughout this 15-year period have not had any comments on the University's ethical standard or products. On this basis, what we want to ask the Government to look at the matter again. We therefore ask the Council of State to consider reintroducing a normalisation of the relationship with Uniteam as soon as possible. In this context, I also refer to the information that KOFA has addressed the question of clarifying how to interpret the regulation on so-called non-normalised matters. It is very important, as the representative Per-Kristian Foss stressed in his statement, to obtain such clarification, precisely in the interests of the potentially devastating consequences of a decision whether non-normalised conditions may have for a company or a supplier. I refer you to the suggestions that Per-Kristian Foss made on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2015	Initially, I must say that I am actually somewhat surprised that both Carl I. Hagen and Per-Kristian Foss express themselves so strongly about the political discretion in this matter, when in other matters one is so concerned that public money should be managed in a good and sound manner – which I fully agree with. The reason I'm a little surprised about that is that the Ministry of Defence has used the legislation that we have for public acquisitions, which we have every opportunity to use. The defense acquires annual goods and services for tens of billions of dollars. Acquisitions are precisely based on laws and regulations to ensure that we manage Community funds properly. In this case, the Ministry of Defence found that Uniteam’s conduct was not just a violation of ethical requirements, but was so serious that the situation was reported to the police under the provisions of the Criminal Code on fraud. I must also say that I am a little surprised when I know what documentation has been sent to the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee in this matter. However, the matter has been well explained by the Committee's consultation and minutes. The fact is that in 2003, Uniteam reported a notional cost documentation to the Defence in connection with the conclusion of the contract in question. The defence procurement legislation clearly limits the benefit the supplier may have on a delivery in an exclusive supply situation. Thus, by providing far higher costs than the one on which it was based, Uniteam gained a gain far beyond what they could calculate under the legislation. As I said at the hearing, the defense has a claim against the Uniteam of at least 40 million. kr. In my opinion, Uniteam was aware that they were in a single supplier situation, and that this included: meant a clear gain limit. As a result of Uniteam's action, the Department decided to introduce a non-normalised business relationship to the Uniteam Group, based on the rejection home in the Public Acquisition Regulation. In addition, the company and the central owners were reported to the police for fraud. The case is still known in police investigations. We can all think it's unfortunate that it's taken so long, but that's the situation now. Two of the central owners have the status of sight. During the committee hearing, I pointed out that this case concerns a matter that could fall within the competence of the judicial authority, which has also been discussed here by many. Once again, I think it is appropriate to stress this relationship, and I also record that the majority of the committee does the same in its position. I also note that a minority of the Committee's members refer to the Committee's responsibility for monitoring the performance of its duties and political actions. To this end, I would like to point out that the Department has acted in a reasonable and proportionate manner, taking into account the serious facts committed by the Uniteam. The evidence in this case is so thorough and comprehensive that it has been found appropriate to reject Uniteam from the competitions in defence. I would like to stress that this regulatory right to reject suppliers who have breached ethical requirements applies regardless of any criminal conviction against a given supplier. Let me also stress that a supplier is of course not fully awarded the right of rejection of a contracting authority, as Professor Kai Krüger also pointed out during the hearing. Whether or not a contracting authority has gone too far in the exercise of its right to refuse is known as the legal entity that may have to assess. Once again, I can only say that I am recording that Uniteam has not taken any legal action against the Ministry in order to have the decisions to reject the company, nor has it promoted the case for KOFA. With regard to the minority's proposal that the relationship with Uniteam should be normalized, I would also like to stress what I said during the hearing. Normalisation by the Department may, for example: is made by a substantial change in the ownership structure, the willingness to cooperate by the company, the recognition of the circumstances and the financial autonomy of Uniteam. However, the Ministry is prepared for a rapid normalisation of the business relationship, but in the current circumstances and without any of these three factors being in place, the Ministry of Defence does not find that there is a basis for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2034	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2038	I think it is very surprising when, after talking about the distinction between judges, legislators and to the extent of executive power, the Council of State rejects its judgment. She said, "...is committed by the Uniteam." She also said that the claim, among others. in order to eliminate the non-normalised situation, is recognition of the relationship. Even I have not gone so far as to establish that Uniteam has not done anything wrong and that the responsibility lies with the Defence. I've been waiting for a court order. But several times during the hearing, and now in the main hall, the Council of State states that this relationship that the Defense has reported has been committed by the Unitete and that they must recognise the relationship. So she's already passed the verdict, not just gone to the review. My question to the Council of State is: the possibility of implementing a non-normalised relationship is a rule of law. Does she still think that she had to use that can-determination? Does she think it was reasonable political discretion, instead of letting the doubt come to the fore and await the judgment of the state of law at a later date?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2045	I would like to remind you that it is not a requirement that there should be a just judgment in order to have a non-normalized relationship. I understand that Carl I. Hagen does, too. That's enough. That's 50 pst. the likelihood that acts have taken place which must be characterised as serious, misconduct against industry ethics and against the requirements of contractual loyalty. I think it would be strange to first report a company to the police, and then just go on as if nothing had happened, without entering into a non-normalized relationship with that company. I believe that there would be a completely irresponsible handling on our part, and – as I have said – we want to have a normalisation of the relationship, but some demands must be met, including by Uniteam.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2050	The Council of State stated in its statement that she was amazed that the Enlarged Council's control committee had made her performance of her duties a matter. I don't think that's a reason, because that's one of the control committee's tasks. The Council of State is aware that this is not the first time it has happened, either for this Council of State or for former defence ministers. I think it's a surprise to be sidelined, if you're going to get used to being in politics. What is critical is that the following method can be used: You can exercise your discretion to exclude a supplier by reporting it to the police. And as long as you have reported a supplier to the police, you have a reason to exclude it forever. Companies that deliver to the Defense have not so many other places to go, when an exclusion from the Norwegian Defense also involves an exclusion from other NATO countries. Luckily, we don't have private armies here in the world, at least they're not very big. Companies that are then excluded by all Western allies are, in practice, condemned to go badly. This right to actually run a business bankruptcy raises some fundamental counter-conceptions. Doesn't the Council of State see this side of the case as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2059	Those who suffer from this case are those who work in the company. I fully agree that this is a very unfortunate situation for them. In fact, I believe that this responsibility has to be taken into account by the owners in this matter. It may not be that the defence at any price is to maintain a business relationship if you feel that there have been direct gross violations, not only in terms of the ethical standard and the relationship that we believe is important to a supplier, but also a supplier that we report for direct fraud.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2064	What happened at the beginning of this case was that the so-called Dalseide report claimed to the department that Uniteam had overinvoiced. So now the Council of State makes it so that the only option for a solution that was up in the Ministry of Defence was a police report. No, it wasn't a police report that was the only option. You could go to a meeting with Uniteam, present them with the views of the Dalseide Committee and, after a little experience from legal certainty, allow the company to clarify and explain what was found. There is a solution that is widely used elsewhere in other departments, in other companies and in industry in general. There is something very special about the Ministry of Defence — perhaps not necessarily the Council of State, but the Department — that starts with a police report instead of clarifying the misunderstandings. Perhaps the Council of State, if she had been involved in the matter at an early stage, had found out that Uniteam's explanations were clarifying and thus did not go to the police report requested by the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2069	Of course, the Ministry of Defence has a dialogue with its suppliers when conflicts occur, even in this case. However, we believe that the documentation available and which we have also submitted to the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs is so clear that we chose to go to the notification of Uniteam. It would be strange – I would say once again – if we were to maintain a normal business relationship. We want to have a normal business relationship with the University, but there must be a certain recognition of the facts in the matter. I have now heard that you say that you are unsure when Uniteam found out that they were the sole supplier. Well, from September 2003, they're the only one in the title of the contract. A contract audit was carried out in October of that year. This is not carried out if there is a wide competition for tenders, it is a letter to the Council of State at that time, which makes a concrete reference to a supplier's situation. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2074	The President will remind you that the speaking time in a sequence shift is up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2080	The Council of State mentioned three points in its statement which could give an opportunity to re-examine the matter with regard to the non-normalised status of Uniteam. I would like to ask about a point that I think must also be counted in this context, and that is the time span, as the studies take so long and go out – it is over two years since Uniteam was reported: What role does the Council of State think that the time factor here is playing? Is there not a limit to how long such a case can be brought to the detriment of the company, its employees and their prospects for the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2087	The time course is of course a moment in this, but once again I want to remind you that this is actually up to Uniteam himself. If Uniteam shows a willingness to cooperate in the matter and acknowledge the facts and settle – we believe that we are overinvoicing for approx. Forty million. kr and perhaps more than that – and it is clear that it is difficult just to ignore that case and go on as if nothing has happened, of course it would contribute to us getting a normalised relationship in the long term.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2092	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 4012]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2111	At the request of the Control and Constitutional Committee, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the President of the case, 5 minutes to each of the other party groups and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five replies be given within the allocated speaking time after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2120	The National Audit Office decided to issue the report on quality study and cooperation in care services for the elderly as an administrative report. The National Audit Board has not given an opinion on the matter, nor has the report been sent to Stortinget as its own case. It is a little special that an administrative report from the National Audit Office is being examined in the Grand Duchy, but it has been decided by the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee. The case has been properly addressed with consultation, which gave a rather identical picture of quality and cooperation in the care of the elderly as described by the National Audit Office. The main findings of the National Audit Office show that the care provided by the municipalities varies. The study reveals incorrect use of residential facilities, lack of day-time activities, low medical coverage in hospitals, deficiencies in systems of anomalies management and insufficiently anchored cooperation agreements with hospitals. The National Audit Office emphasises that a number of measures have been put in place by the Ministry to strengthen the provision of care and care services for municipalities in the context of the 2015 care plan. The number of annual works has increased — in particular between 2005 and 2007 — by about 11,000 annual works, which the Riksrevision writes is due to the strong commitment of the government and the increase. In addition, the Government has introduced investment grants for the establishment of places with day-to-day care and measures for increased manning capacity and enhanced professional competence and has put in place a number of measures for unskilled people. Furthermore, the Ministry has required municipalities to introduce a local standard for medical treatment in hospitals and has increased demands for day care. Municipalities themselves are responsible for ensuring that they have a professionally good care service that is sufficient to meet the needs of citizens for services. Furthermore, the municipalities have a separate responsibility for making use of the measures taken by the Ministry of Health and Welfare. I would also refer to an agreement that was concluded between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, where one can cut off and show that the Government has followed up what it has promised in this agreement, as far as possible. The centre party and the other two government parties, the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party, believe that it is the responsibility of the municipalities to have good care for the elderly and to make good offers. Just by making decisions near the user, we believe that the user will also be met in a good way. I read the Bergens newspaper on Tuesday, June 16. The new senior general of the Progress Party has been on its way to Askøy and has gathered some rapporteurs from the Progress Party municipalities, where he solemnly launches Thursday's Progress Party to promote a proposal in the Stortinget to make the care of the elderly so much better. But then the progress partyer says to the newspaper: ‘There is a complete hole in the head that SV and S have such destinies against anything called private operation that they prefer public bureaucratic solutions that only hinder the efficient operation of care’. In addition, it says: ‘On Thursday he shall submit an amendment to the Stortinget.’; So Hagen says to the newspaper: "Unfortunately, I do not get the other fools with me on this proposal, dares Hagen towards BA." And then the journalist asks: ‘Who are the idiots?’ Then Hagen answered: ‘In particular, it is SV and Sp, which, through their policies, prevent Norway from having a much better ageing policy than is the case today.’ I see the representative Hagen is flirting. But I really hope not that this will be the way the Progress Party will fight for the future, by disfellowshipping political opponents and using characteristics like 'tullions'. I just have to say that I would encourage Hagen to be honest and rather meet political opponents with political solutions and challenge them on the solutions, instead of characterising political opponents as ‘tunnels’.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2165	The situation in the care of the elderly is important for the Workers' Party. Most have older family members who need care services to meet everyday challenges. The government has taken this seriously throughout the period. A number of measures have been launched by the State Councils and the Ministry through the 2015 care plan. This applies, inter alia, to: the introduction of an investment grant for the establishment of places for the provision of day-care facilities and measures for increased manning capacity and enhanced professional competence. Norwegian care for the elderly is very well developed, compared with other countries. No country in Europe spends so much money per year. is based on services provided by older people such as Norway. Norway has the largest total supply of nursing homes and nursing homes in the Nordic region. Only the Danes are surpassing us in the provision of home services, but there are considerable variations between service provision and expenditure in municipalities. Municipalities with an extra good economy, which has a lot of old ones, spend a lot more on care for the elderly than municipalities with poor finances do. But 90 pst. of which the municipalities have more than 90 pst. coverage rate in the case of single rooms in nursing homes. The difference in expenditure, annual work and coverage rates is systematically linked to each other and implies that some municipalities have a significantly better provision of services in the care of the elderly than other municipalities have. The rapporteur has gone through the Committee's position in an excellent way. The government’s target of 10,000 new annual shifts in the care sector by 2010 has been achieved, according to an investigation carried out by the KS. A significant part of the new annual works is skilled personnel. There is reason to stress that the complexity of both the quality work and the quality concept makes it difficult to measure the quality of care services in municipalities. Many Nordics are looking at getting old and depending on others with concern. Growing old could mean becoming less independent, and it could mean saying good-bye to activities that are important to us. We consider good care services to be an important prerequisite for making the last phase of life as good as possible. Every individual life course has its end, but we have to make sure that people are allowed to live as they want until life is over. The last part of life does not need to be defined as meaningless to shorten, or get rid of it by means of a tablet or a syringe — it is difficult to interpret the country-by-country decision of the Progress Party in particular differently. During the open hearing, State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen addressed the interaction reform and that it will have something to say about the shortcomings that the Riksrevision points out regarding the admission and printing of patients from hospitals to the municipalities. In addition, the user influence and patient role must be strengthened – an important and correct grip by the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2180	Let me start by saying to the statements of Rune J. Schjelleaen that the word 'tulling' is probably a relatively mild expression in relation to what can often be used about others – at least in relation to what I have received over the years. When we have political parties that over 20 years imply people that the same policy that has led to major problems in the care of the elderly must suddenly solve the problems for the future, then this is an appropriate expression to be able to use – at least outside this room, where there are other rules for what to say. I have submitted a proposal, and I am pleased to hear the Council of State answer a few questions. An investment grant has been received, which has been proposed many times by the Progress Party without its adoption. Then finally came a proposal from the Government of 800,000 kroner per year. newly built hospital space. It is a lower amount for care facilities. So the regulation on this says that this is something the municipalities also receive for buildings that they have for 20 years. In addition, a restriction has been introduced by the board of the House Bank on which buildings can be used by municipalities for nursing homes and on what cooperation they can have with others. It has been decided that only those who have non-profit as a purpose should be involved. In other words, the purpose is not to get new places in the hospital, but just to get new places in the public sector. It is a fact that there are many property developers who have or dispose of land, who are developing long-term rental buildings for a municipality that is going to use them for health homes, but they are thus cut off from now on. Oslo could have increased the number of hospitals dramatically, as could Bærum and others. These have projects ready, and it was about just putting the spade in the ground when the new regulation came and stopped it. If the purpose is new hospitals, why is it not desirable to welcome OBOS, other housing companies or professional property developers, who are willing to draw and build buildings within the framework of the regulation? Then they can offer a municipality to rent it permanently for 20 years, with maintenance costs included. When the public has maintenance responsibilities, it is never done properly. And so in particular – I assume – SV and the Center Party: No, this is a private developer, a limited company. Then don't take care of the old people who need hospitalization, so important, then it's more important to stop it. Oslo's stopped, and Bærum's stopped. I should have liked to have the Council of State's explanation as to why it is all over the world that professional limited liability companies can run hospitals? You're welcome! But you put obstacles in the way of a property developer being able to assist the municipality to do this. The only result of this is that it becomes an obstacle. It is acknowledged that private buildings can be built and owned by school buildings rented to municipalities for 20 years. It is acknowledged that the Ministry of Justice is getting a private builder, a private company, to build a building that is rented out to the Ministry of Justice. We have a wide range of cases in which the public rentals a building for 20 years on a long-term contract, where the maintenance responsibility lies with the owner of the property. Why can't you do the exact same for nursing homes and nursing homes? At least you have zero credibility if you say from this pulpit that the purpose of the investment grant is to get the most new start-ups from nursing homes, and that the same applies to nursing homes, when you put bureaucratic obstacles and this ideological attitude, which belongs to the scrappowder of history, in the way of practical solutions. Bærum has stopped over a hundred places. Oslo and Kolbotn could do the same. Today, the income transfer system is so that if the municipality of Oslo buys sick homes in another municipality, those who are going to be there move to the hospital home, and then they move out of the municipality. Then it is the municipality in which the health home is located, which receives the subsidy from the country according to the transmission system. It's a crazy system that needs to change. If, today, there are vacant sick homes in one municipality and a deficiency in another, they cannot act, because then the payer loses, in effect, the transfers from the country to the transmission system. These things I had hoped that we might have a majority for today. I am very pleased that the Right is included as the author of the proposal, and I address the proposals No. One, two, three, and four, and then we see what the others are doing. But I can guarantee that if the Rune Skjellaa votes against our proposals and in the election campaign tries to imagine people that he wants more hospitals, I'll answer him, and it'll be my pleasure to dress him and the Center party naked.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2201	The representative Carl I. Hagen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2204	I'll stay safe within what can be said from this pulpit. What is available for treatment is the review by the National Audit Office of the situation in the care of the elderly. It clearly shows that the state does not have insignificant shortcomings, to put it in diplomatic language. Someone remembers the election campaign last time, four years ago, when the party leader at that time, now Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg, promised that there would never be five cents in tax booklets «before it shines with the care of the elderly». One of the first things the government did was to propose tax reliefs for the union quota. No one had discovered that it had begun to shine off the care of the elderly at the time, and one could not say that the Riksrevision has been dazzled by the intense shine of light from the care of the elderly. But the advantage of not paying election vows is that you can recycle them an unlimited number of times, i.e. every time it's a campaign. I would like to refer to what the Right for Yourself has proposed to address the problems and deficiencies that the Riksrevision points out in its report. In the 2007-2009 budgets, we have repeatedly proposed to strengthen the recruitment of professionals such as doctors and nurses, among others. through grants for the balancing of the pay gap between the municipality and the specialist health service. We have proposed our own competence pool, which includes nurses. We have also proposed a number of qualification measures for unskilled people. The percentage of unskilled workers in the care sector is very high compared to all other sectors in the Norwegian community. And we have proposed increasing support for research and professional development in the care sector. We have also been committed to developing several decentralised services in the specialist healthcare service that may be suitable to support the municipal health and care service, for example. by setting up several outpatient teams from hospitals that can serve patients in the community health service. Let me also make a small comment on the settlement mentioned in the vote, to which reference is made in the Special Commentary of the Christian People's Party, which was concluded between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government Parties in the autumn of 2007. At that time, the Right Party and the Advance Party chose to stay outside the conciliation, not because we disagreed with any of the intentions, but because we thought it was suitable to lead people behind the lights when talking about, for example. a guarantee of dignity without being able to explain what it is and how the concept of guarantee can be at all linked to a positively charged term such as dignity. ‘Guarantee’ is a word that is related to jus in all other contexts, e.g. in the Sale of Goods Act, and when people hear the word «guarantee», they will immediately think that the applicable requirement is to be made here if the guarantee has not been fully honoured and in due time. It is pointed out in the note from the Christian People's Party that little or nothing has happened on the basis of the agreement of the Left and Christian People's Party with the government parties. For me, it confirms that our and the Advancement Party's assessment was correct, that the so-called earlier settlement was practically without substance. When this is the case, and when there is so little commitment, it seems to me that you should avoid using words like “guarantee” or “relation”, because it is suitable for creating expectations in people who are necessarily disappointed, because you do not follow the expectations you have created. It is a very important date in the report of the National Audit Office, which shows that some developments have gone in the wrong direction, and that the coverage of institutions for the elderly is reduced by 7 pst. during the period 2003-2007. It's not the number of places that are the most striking here, it's just the density, that's the ratio of the number of places available to the needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2219	Let me start by going back a little bit in time, more specifically to spring 1997. At that time, the Stortinget addressed a report on the elderly policy. It also included a four-year action plan for the development of care services for the elderly. In the UK, there was a broad political consensus on a large-scale commitment to care for the elderly in the years to come, in particular with the development of nursing homes, private homes and several annual works. The plan was followed up, and a lot happened in this area in the years that followed. The report we are examining today, and the treatment of the Health Care Plan 2015, fully indicates that there are still major unmet needs if nursing elderly people are to receive an adequate offer. Care plan 2015 contained a lot of good, but it lacked a concrete action and escalation plan. However, the parental agreement between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the government parties that came to an end means more concrete follow-up, and the Christian People's Party is pleased that we were able to obtain a guarantee of dignity for the elderly. I am recording that the representative is today trying to re-examine that matter in relation to the debate in the Health and Welfare Committee, but I am also well aware that this has not been a particular subject for the assessment of the Riksrevision and is thus a little outside of what we are discussing, and that the Supervisory and Constitutional Committee has raised in this matter. I just want to say that the time has not yet elapsed for the possibility of fulfilling this guarantee of dignity. I think it has an important content -- it's been clarified in this hall, and outside, repeatedly what's in it, and what it involves. I also believe that we should be able to see the follow-up of this in the future, at least we have concrete expectations of both the Government and our partners at that point. The National Audit Office’s report shows, in the light of the municipalities surveyed, that service provision to older people varies. Not all older people get the help they should get, according to their needs for care. The quality is also not as good everywhere. The Christian People's Party is concerned that all older people should be offered the services they need. Care services shall have content and good quality. Basic needs, both physical, mental, social and spiritual, must be met. Everyone has to be sure that they get the help they need when they need it. It is an objective that individuals should be able to live in their own homes for as long as possible. However, we need enough institutional space, both long-term and short-term, so that older people have the security that when they can no longer cope with help at home, they can have a sick home. At the hearing in the Committee, differing views were expressed on the functioning of nursing homes with good care and care as well as nursing homes. These are issues I expect the Stortinget and the Health and Care Committee to discuss more later. But let it be clear: for the Christian People's Party, it is important that the municipalities do not choose nursing homes rather than nursing homes for economic reasons. The most important thing is the need for care. Several reports conclude that the sickest elderly need to be in hospital. A study conducted by SINTEF for the Norwegian Nursing Association in 2007 found that the ‘most vulnerable elderly’ and the demented elderly do not receive adequate services in nursing homes. The Christian People's Party believes that older people need to have a place in their homes when the state of health so as to ensure a decent care. The government and government parties boast more than 10,000 more hands in the care sector. Yes, that's a good thing, but there's reason to ask if this is more or less than what has been needed for increased care needs. Have these positions benefited the sickest of the elderly? I'm addressing that question to the Council of State. In the last year, there has been constant notification of redundancies, closed wards in hospitals and closures of care services for the elderly. About half of the municipalities made a deficit in 2008. It goes without saying that not everyone has protected the care of the elderly when the situation is so serious. The government created great expectations with its strengthening of the municipal sector in the first two years. When revenue becomes more or less flat, it becomes difficult for local politicians to fulfill all the government's promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2240	I shall not prolong the debate. I will only make sure that the Left will support the proposal No. 1, 2 and 3, which are represented by the Progress Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2245	Of course, we in the Ministry of Health and Welfare have read the Riksrevisions report with great interest. What has been good is that we feel that the analysis underlying the Riksrevision report is the same analysis that we have and that is the basis of the 2015 Care Plan. In short, the description of what we define as challenges is that there is a positive development in the care sector in general, and that there is also a positive development in the care of the elderly – but we are not in the target. There is therefore a need to continue efforts, to strengthen efforts in important areas. Let me sum up the needs I see right now that are coming, in three main points. The first is that we need to increase the capacity in the case of nursing homes, and in the case of housing arranged for the care and care of the lucky day. We see that today, and not least in the years to come, we have too little capacity in that area. That is also why the communication, the care plan, and not least as a result of the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left, facilitates an ambition in that field, i.e. the construction of 12,000 new units until 2015. We see, based on the application mass that the House Bank has today, that it is completely realistic to achieve that goal. Both in relation to the level of appropriations involved and the applications that are in place, we are on track to reach the target of 12,000 places in 2015. What I think is important is to evaluate continuously, as we have also agreed, whether the level of ambition of 12,000 is high enough, or whether there is a basis for further adjusting it. The second main point is the need for enhanced skills and more staff. Very often, when we discuss not least the piece of care for the elderly in the care sector, it is about warm hands. I don't mind people being warm on their hands, but what's important to emphasize is that there's a clear need for competence. In that area, too, we are doing well, but we need to move on. I heard that the representative's salary was very concerned that the Christian People's Party and the Left had not got anything out of this agreement. Well, the last year we had the Cooperation Government, the number of annual jobs in the care sector in Norway was reduced by 1,500. Since 2005 and up to the present time — if we take into account the level in 2005 and until today — there have been 14,000 more people employed in the care sector in Norway. It is clear that the work of the Christian People's Party by tightening up the wording and objectives in this area has had meaning, and it has produced results. So I am not saying that we feel confident that many of the 14,000 annual works have gone to the care of the elderly, and I am not saying that we are in the goal either. However, there have been 14,000 more in the care sector between 2005 and the end of 2008. The fact that we are not in the target is also the basis for saying that in the period up to 2015, the aim is to increase the number of annual works by a further 12,000 – until 2015, a further 12,000! It is about competence, good services, that more can be done in municipalities and that fewer users of care services must be throwballs between municipalities and specialist health services. Much of this will also be taken into account in the interaction reform, which we will present tomorrow. The last main point is the need to enhance quality. The commitment to competence is about it, day-care is about it, the goal of getting daily services for all denments in 2015 is about it, and the work on new common health and social legislation will largely deal with quality in the care sector and quality in the care of the elderly. We mean we're on the right track. We're not in the goal, but progress is definitely in the right direction, and it's confirmed by the National Audit Office.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2264	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2268	I am pleased that the Council of State says that there is no target, that we need to step up efforts and increase capacity in both nursing homes and care places. Then is my question, as the Council of State has already received through my post: why do you now have a ceiling on the number of new places per. years for which investment grants are granted when there is a construction industry leisure activity? Instead, would it not make sense to have a level playing field, to make use of the available capacity and the lower construction costs by removing the ceiling on how much the House Bank can provide in grants within the investment grant framework? Now it's capacity without creating pressure in the economy. Another question is: why in the world should property developers be excluded from being able to build hospitals and nursing homes that can be rented out to municipalities in 20 years' time, when the state in all other areas feels it is reasonable, and even makes use of it as such a body of authority as, among other things, it does. warehouses?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2277	To the end, I believe that this is a special situation in which the State grants a special earmarked grant from the State to the municipalities, which the municipalities will use to expand this type of place. Then I think it is important that we make sure that the expansion that then subsidizes the market with a separate grant scheme is via public developers. What is strange is that I hear the representative Carl I. Hagen say that this is so difficult in Oslo and in Bærum – Oslo, which is run by the Progress Party in this area. The strange thing is, it's so easy in the rest of the country! There are thousands of applications in there. 4 500 applications are in there, 150 from Oslo. Why is it so problematic in this area for the Oslo Municipality, which is led by the Progress Party, to do what they obviously do in central party-driven municipalities, working party-driven municipalities, right-wing municipalities, etc.? What's so hard to get this to where the Progress Party sits with power?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2284	I don't know if I can answer the questions, because the Council of State instead of answering questions me? I don't have time to answer, do I?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2289	The representative Hagen can draw a new line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2292	I'm not going to accept the invitation of the Council of State to start humping around with numbers picked out by selecting a calendar that fits the purposes, because that's not the best way to use statistics. So let me take the current situation with the 14 hundred new year works that the last number from the SSB shows. At the same time, it shows that, with that figure, the level of coverage relative to the needs of the care sector is exactly the same as before. So it's not indicative of a higher coverage. You're on the ground resting. With regard to the coverage of hospitals, the report says that there has been a 7pst decrease. Nevertheless, the Council of State says, and takes the Riksrevision to income for it, that everything is going the right way. No, it's not going the right way! Something's on the ground resting, and something's going the wrong way. But will the Council of State at least ensure that in the future we can get exact figures for how much of the annual work goes to the care of the elderly and how much goes for other purposes? At least it must be affordable.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2301	To the last one, we're working on it. I have exactly the same interest in it as the representative of the payroll. I understand very well that the representative's salary is not very interested in us counting annual work. Nor would I have been if I came from the Right. To the first point, about the capacity within the sector. It is true that, based on the latest figures from the Statistical Centre, where we count health homes and nursing homes with lucky crews, coverage has increased for residents over 80 years in the period 2005–08 — not much, but it has increased. So I mean I have full evidence to say that evolution is going in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2310	Let me first point out that the Council of State's previous attempt to answer was actually such that it was he who asked me questions, instead of the other way around. Perhaps this could be something for the Presidency in September, to change the Rules of Procedure a little, so that the President may be allowed to readjust government councils and others who will answer questions but do not. I have another question: The setting refers to KS saying that there are now between 4,500 and 4,900 new annual work in the care of the elderly. Can we get an assurance that the Prime Minister and the Councils will end up talking about 10,000 new annual works in the care of the elderly, that we can now learn that this is about the whole care sector? New people in child protection are also counted into that number, so it's very deficient what's happening. The second question I did not get an answer to, so I repeat it: why can't you be allowed to use property development companies when it can help to strengthen the number of places in the care of the elderly, in nursing homes and in nursing homes? And: Will the Council of State agree that it will be open to grant all applications for investment grants that meet the other requirements of the regulation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2319	I am absolutely sure that the President realized that I asked the President some rhetorical questions about why it is possible to achieve the objectives of enough sick homes in municipalities where the Progress Party does not rule, but that it seems difficult where the Progress Party really sits with the power, to apply to build hospitals. I'm absolutely sure the president understood that the rhetorical question had something to do with the line I got from Carl I. Hagen. Then we're going to stop talking about 10,000 new annual works – we're going to start talking about 14,000 new annual works. Because it turns out that we have fulfilled the promises we made about 10,000 new annual works – we have 14 000 new annual works in the care and care sector! Then I agree with Carl I. Hagen that it is important to be precise. There are 14,000 new annual shifts in the care sector, but we do not have enough figures to say what the distribution is between older and younger users in the care sector. So that's where we have to be precise. And if you haven't been, there's reason to point it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2328	The correct figure is 14 100 new annual works, but it's not a point to count annual works if you don't also pay attention to demographic developments, i.e. how many people need care from these annual works. It's only when you get the right idea whether the quality has increased or not. The correct coverage figure was 4.4 in 2005. In 2006 it was 4.5. Then it's been calming down to 4.6, and there was no increase in 2008. When the Council of State points out that there was a decrease from 2004 to 2005, I believe that the Council of State also knows very well that until that decrease, the Central Statistical Agency has a note that says that this can be explained by the fact that the SSB changed its way of counting from 2004 to 2005 – and thus the only comparable figures available are, from 2005 onwards and beyond. Does the Council agree with this presentation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2335	What we promised was that we would get 10,000 new annual jobs in the care and care sector by the end of 2009, and I find that the promise is over-fulfilled. We got 14 100 new annual works by the end of 2008, and in addition, what happens in 2009. I think that's a very nice growth in the number of annual works, and it's been necessary, because the challenges are so many and because we have a growth in the number of older ones. That's also what's the basis for us to expand the next few years accordingly. Then it is a fact that from 2004 to 2005 there has been a decrease in the number of annual works. That's what the statistics from the Central Bureau say. I believe that this method of counting did not come in 2004, but the year before. But the point is that I understand that you have a great need to read these numbers in a very special way when you're able to get a decline in the number of annual jobs while you're running the country, and that it's then hard to meet people who have made a huge increase in the number of annual jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2342	I don't know if the council is sensitive to good advice, but at least I want to offer one, and it's that he stops continuing the pedagogy he's been conducting from the election campaign four years ago until now. It is no more than a couple of weeks since the council of state stood in the staging hall and said in the spontaneous question hour that the government has never promised 10,000 new annual works for the care of the elderly. The following week, the Prime Minister stood on the same platform and said that it had been done. He repeated three times that was exactly what the government had promised – that is, 10,000 new annual works for the care of the elderly. I think the government is about to exhibit a little bit more audacity in dealing with statistics. The interesting thing is not how many annual works have been booked at any time – the interesting thing is the coverage. We may have to agree on that – and then we may agree that all parties are best served by continuing to hold the debate on that basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2350	The fact that the representative of wages is absolutely right is that I am not going to follow that advice. We're going to keep talking about these years. I understand why the representative's pay gives it advice, but I'm not going to follow it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2355	I give it because I'm a member of honesty, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2360	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2365	When I started with the coverage in 2005, it was because the SSB changed the counting mode from 2004 to 2005. I could have, as the Council of State, taken from the 2004 figures and claimed that the coverage was higher under the Bondevik II government than after three years with the Stoltenberg II government. But to be honest, I didn't. I would recommend the Council of State to follow the same system. There were two key promises in the 2005 election campaign from Prime Minister candidate Jens Stoltenberg regarding the care of the elderly. There was a promise of 10,000 new hands in the care of the elderly, and it was a promise that no tax relief would come until it came from the care of the elderly. Today we stand with the fasit. The promise of 10,000 new hands in the care of the elderly was hardly seen by the voters as a promise that the elderly care would have the same level in 2008 as in the election year 2005. But in reality, Stoltenberg’s promise was that the quality of care for the elderly should be maintained at exactly the same level as in the 2005 election campaign, with a coverage of 4.6 p.m., a small increase. The next key promise was that you should not have tax relief until it came out of the care of the elderly. In the Questionnaire in Stortinget, we got an explanation of this promise from the Prime Minister, that it was a promise not to reduce the level of taxation. The 2005 election campaign declaration that one should have 10,000 new hands in the care of the elderly, and that one should not have any tax relief before the care of the elderly, has now been translated into maintaining the quality of care for the elderly at the same level as in 2005. The other one promised was that one would not have any tax relief during this period. I hardly think that's what the voters heard Stoltenberg say. Today we stand with the fasit. What he promised he would keep. But I don't think it's a good idea to try to make it something other than what it is.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2374	No more have asked for the word on case 4. [[See page 4013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2391	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4013]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2408	As the rapporteur for the annual report of the National Audit Office in the last four years, I would just like to make a few comments on the role of the National Audit Office in society. There has been something that has been bothering me since I first came here in 1974. Then I made proposals for the 1975 government budget – alone, without advisers and without colleagues. It was quite polite. It was the first time I strengthened the Riksrevision, because I wanted to increase control of the administration. I'm glad that since then the Riksrevision has been substantially strengthened and has been given a completely different place in the Norwegian community. Through some reforms in 1992 and the setting-up of the Control and Constitutional Committee in 1993, the National Audit Office was also given more access to and required to provide administrative audits, as well as Document No. 1st@item: inlistbox I think the development of administrative audits from the National Audit Office has been positive. Now they're going to be a number from 12 to 15 per. year and handled by the Control and Constitutional Committee and by the Stortinget. The role of the National Audit Board in relation to the control apparatus has been significantly strengthened in the time I have had the pleasure of being in Stortingen, without saying that I have had something special to do here in this room. But I think it's an observation that I, as the case-rapporteur for the Riksaudition Annual Reports, want to produce. I hope that the Riksrevision will continue to be strengthened, because as the administration, the government – the executive – is getting more and more power to decide matters of great importance for both companies and residents, it is vital that we have a control system and sound management. At the same time as giving increased power to the government, it is necessary to strengthen the National Audit Office, strengthen the control apparatus, which is also the Civil Ombudsman, and in recent times, the work of the secret services, the EOS Committee, so that there is a balance in society between those exercising power and the control apparatus, in order to prevent as much abuse of power as possible. In the Frøiland Committee, I was delighted to make suggestions to change the composition of the Riksrevision. I think it might be in place with a National Auditor who is appointed independently of the political, and who can't really be dismissed, in order to ensure the independence of the National Auditor. A party-politically appointed national audit, in which the largest party usually receives the head, i.e. the permanent employee and the executive director of the National Audit Office, may in reality cause problems with party-political ties. My personal reflections are that so far there has been no abuse in this area. Those who have held the position of national auditors have acted politically neutrally. They have acted as inspectors, regardless of personal and party political views. It's vital. I hope therefore, of course, that we will not have any ties or reactions in the choice of the National Audit Board that might create suspicion that someone wants a national audit that is somewhat more obedient and somewhat less independent than what we have experienced in recent years. As the rapporteur for the annual reports of the National Audit Office in recent years, I wanted to make these general points of view known. I also refer to the Committee's position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2421	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is late. [[Fotation, see page 4014]] New meeting will be scheduled at 2.30 a.m. 18th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2444	The formerly exempted alternate of the Hedmark County, Tone Merete Sønsterud, is called to meet under the remainder of Thomas Breen's leave. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2465	Mozambique is among the poorest countries in the world, despite a reduction in the proportion of the poor and an annual growth in the economy of around 8pst. Norway has had formal development cooperation with Mozambique since 1977, and the central objective of Norwegian aid has been poverty reduction. The present report from the Riksrevision has been prepared in cooperation between the national audits in Norway, Denmark and Sweden under the direction of the Norwegian National Audit Office. It is part of greater cooperation, the HOAP, between national audits in a number of countries providing development assistance. The Group was set up to harmonise and coordinate audits of development assistance through a common audit practice and information sharing. This type of cooperation projects contributes to both the coordination, harmonisation and transfer of knowledge. Norway is one of the nineteen countries participating in a cooperation on general budget support for Mozambique. All donors participating, signed a joint intention agreement in 2004, and a new agreement is signed this year. Aid to Mozambique amounted to a total of USD 1429 in 2007, i.e. approx. 50 pst. by the State budget of the country. About 1⁄4 of this is given as budget support. The study has focused in particular on the fulfilment by donors of their obligations regarding the transfer of funds and further transfer to Mozambique’s central bank account, the use and follow-up of reports and the quality of the data contained in the reports and the anti-corruption theme. The study shows that there are positive results in several areas. This is a positive development in the country’s economy and management systems, and donors have complied with their commitments in 2007. The accounts of the Bank of Mozambique show that the transfers are converted into local currency at the correct exchange rate and made available in a timely manner to the Ministry of Finance. The appointed auditors have carried out the work in line with their mandate. Three key areas for potential improvements are highlighted: increased use of electronic financial management systems, more active use of reports from the Mozambican audit institutions and closer cooperation with them, and follow-up of the quality of statistics to enhance performance monitoring. However, although the quality of financial reporting has improved, it does not provide the providers with sufficient information. This is due, inter alia, to: that only approx. 1⁄4 of the State budget is part of the electronic accounting system and that wage payments are not included. Corruption is also a major problem in Mozambique. The report notes that the basis for the fight against corruption has been laid, but that few results have been achieved so far and that the targets for 2007 have not been met. Work against corruption is very important. Corruption reduces efforts to combat poverty and also weakens trust in governments. In its opinion, an overall committee stresses that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs must address the issue of corruption both in direct contact with the authorities in Mozambique and in cooperation with the other donor countries. The progress part and the right part have some own comments in the setting. Here they are, among others. critical to increased budget support and multiannual commitments. The Christian People's Party agrees that budget support is a major challenge in terms of control. At the same time, however, countries receiving support are able to learn to do their own priorities and to manage their own budgets more effectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2482	The rapporteur has explained the position in a good way, and I would also like to say that we think it is positive the work that the Riksaudition carried out, in cooperation with others. It is important that assistance in general, but we think budget support in particular, is subject to this type of control. After all, from time to time, it has been revealed that we believe we have been involved in, after all, improving the way we provide assistance – that gives us some knowledge. Some of that knowledge is, among other things, that, unfortunately, conditions do not always improve in management, in governance. That things are going forward in Mozambique, we are happy, and that's a picture that fortunately stands out for more countries in Africa. However, corruption was also addressed by the rapporteur, and I am pleased that the committee has said something about it. But what's going to be the question on our side is how to follow this up. It is said in the answer given by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: 'The theme, according to the Ministry, is central to the follow-up and political dialogue with the authorities.' But what are the requirements? Where's the limit going? How long can we wait for a country like Mozambique not to deliver? Because they don't deliver, it's pretty clear from this setting. Results targets have not been achieved, and both the National Audit Office and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs agree. How patient are we to be? It's going to be a challenge. The Progress Party and the Right raise some concerns about this in their comments and raise the specific challenges related to budget support. I'm not going to take that whole debate right now, but we're afraid we're going to have these debates over and over again if we don't make any clearer demands.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2489	Let me first say that Mozambique is one of Africa's great success stories in the last 15 years. After one of Africa's most bloody civil wars, both Frelimo and Renamo, the two parties – the fronts of the civil war – are now sitting together in Parliament and fighting their fights peacefully. It is one of the countries that are still receiving the premium on an African scale for democratic change from one head of state to another, which is not a matter of course in many African countries, and it is one of those countries in Africa that have had the highest economic growth in the last 10–15 years, albeit from an extremely low point of view. So if you are going to choose a country that is an obvious candidate for budget support, Mozambique will undoubtedly be very high on that list: democratic, peaceful, politically stable and with economic progress. That there is corruption in Mozambique as in all other poor countries, for that part of the rich country, is quite obvious. But if we are to assess budget support at all, and it was out of the Paris Declaration to which the Stortinget had a positive relationship, where donors are to harmonise their behaviour, it is difficult to imagine any more obvious candidate in Africa than Mozambique. That being said, it is fantastic that the National Audit Office has taken up this work, and not least that it has coordinated itself with national audits in other countries. It is precisely the type of harmonised work from the transducers that will give greater weight when the results are presented. Of course, data quality is weak in many areas of a country such as Mozambique. They do not have the statistical material that Norway has. However, the three findings presented by the Riksrevision are important findings – and the rapporteur was involved in them – increasing the use of electronic financial management systems, making more active use of reports from national audit institutions, and donors, together with the authorities, should take steps to ensure the quality of follow-up information. Of course, we will follow this up through our Embassy in Maputo and in cooperation with all the other donors involved in both bilateral programmes and budget support in Mozambique. Morten Höglund asked what we would do to follow up on the corruption issues. Norway is an international driving force in addressing this in all contexts – I address these issues in a series of multilateral and bilateral contexts. No later than today, the so-called Capital Refugees Committee presented its report, and we are waiting for a wide-ranging debate on it and on what measures it should lead to, both in poor countries and in Norway. Because there is a coordinated international economic system that makes corruption possible. Within that framework, of course, we will also address corruption issues in Mozambique with other donors. It is a key issue for Norway in any dialogue with other donors, and we will address it with the authorities of Mozambique with clear demands, and see it as a matter of course that all aid programmes, budget support, bilateral programmes and for that part programmes through non-governmental organisations have zero tolerance for corruption, even in countries where corruption is a major part, a dangerous part, of the social structure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2502	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2505	I'm glad that the Council of State indicates that you have to be clear. But is the Council of State prepared to make a clear demand for compliance with corruption – we cannot expect 100 p.m., but that we should go a long way from where we are today – within an acceptable time period?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2510	Let me first say that if you look at world statistics, you see that there's almost a one-to-one relationship between high location on Transparency International's corruption index, that is, a country is very corrupt, and low location according to all economic criteria. In other words, the poorest countries are by far the most corrupt. This is not because people become more immoral because of poverty, but because with wealth, with the expansion of the state and with a middle class, all the institutions that fight corruption come: the national audit, ecocrime, active, tough media, good control mechanisms through parliaments, etc. So the most important means of combating corruption in the longer term is simply economic progress. Within that framework, we must also actively encourage Mozambique, as we do with other developing countries, to take all possible measures to combat corruption. It's a major issue for Norway. I think I can safely say that there is no other donor country that is going to solve the corruption issue in such a tough way as Norway does.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2517	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4014]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2536	The main findings of this report from the Riksrevision are that the objective of St.meld. No 14 for 1999–2000, the changing sporting life, namely that people should have a proportionately equal access to sports facilities irrespective of their place of residence, has not been reached. The report — and the Committee, in its unanimous position — pay particular attention to the concern that the achievement of the objectives of the swimming facilities has been particularly deficient, especially in the three major cities. We also have examples that it's gone back. It might be unnecessary to remember that, but we're in front of a summer, and then we know that there's a lot of accidents going on in this area. Norway is quite poor in terms of swimming skills. A 2003 survey conducted by the Rescue Company and the Norwegian Federation of Swims, conducted by an independent institute, Synovate MMI, showed that only 41 pst. by the ten-year-olds would be able to swim 200 metres or more in a swimming pool. It was in 2003. The same survey was carried out in 2009, after a considerable effort has been made to fill empty basins. After what we've learned, it's been the government's goal, but it hasn't made a very big difference in swimming skills, because now it's only 49 pst. in the same age group that they can swim 200 metres or more in pool. So we are facing a very significant problem. It requires funding, but it also requires a thorough review of the objectives and funding of sports facilities in Norway with a view to achieving the objectives of the Single European Act. There is an overall committee which then expresses satisfaction that the Ministry of Culture has set up a working group to assess the criteria for the distribution of the funds to facilities in Norway, and we expect that the department will continue to give priority to balancing the differences in line with the objectives of the Storting. So my suggestion of a prediction is that in the next big time we will have a similar report that shows that it may have gone a little further, but the targets of the 1999 Storing Communication are very ambitious goals that it will take many years to achieve, if we are to judge at the pace at which we have worked, or swam at so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2549	I would like to say, on behalf of the Government and on behalf of the Minister of Culture Giske, that we have a very clear understanding of what is in the vote, in particular the Committee's emphasis on the need for swimming education, and that it must be worked hard to ensure safer access to the same types of sports facilities across the country. I just want to add finally, if it can soften the representative Foss a little bit: my junior axle, which sits here, which is seven years old, swims at least very much better than his father, if there is any comfort!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2556	Then we were gentle! Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Fotation, see page 4014]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2575	St. pp. No 88 for 2008-2009 deals with wage regulation for workers in the State tariff area, regulation of state pensions and other pension conditions and changes in the State budget for 2009. A unanimous committee has noted that consensus between the parties means ensuring good pensions for employees in the State and the municipality. Furthermore, a unanimous committee considers that the pension settlement of the Storting is followed up. A minority in the Committee, consisting of the Advance Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party, discusses the pay conditions for state pensioners. I expect that they themselves will explain their views on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2584	In 2006, I addressed the issue of the special scheme that the government has, with its own retirement income, i.e. that people who have been employed in the country, who become pensioners, but want to have the opportunity to continue working, e.g. as clerics, like summer vicars, at universities, taking a few hours of education, get a significantly lower hourly salary when they're retired, than what they did before they retired. That means that in many ways we're wasting our good skills, because for these people it's going to pay off working elsewhere, like gardeners, as janitors or for a private university, working elsewhere than in the state, because if they work in the state, they get a very low hourly wage. This is in addition to the abbreviation schemes that might capture the salary/pension ratio. When this was addressed to the Council of State in 2006, the Council of State answered questions 491 in its reply of 20 February. ‘I note that issues of curtailment of pensions where pensioners continue to work are considered in the context of the pension reform. It is therefore unfortunate now to lay down new general rules on pension pay before the adoption of the pension reform.» Now we have completed the pension reform for the public sector. In our country on 6 June 2009, Lorentsen of the Ministry of Renewal and Administration answers the following questions on this matter: ‘There is no work going on to get away from the state pension pay. But we have a consciousness of it." If this is the case, it is obvious that this has not been a matter for the Government, and I would ask that the Council of State today respond to whether it is the Government's ambition to remove the pension scheme for pensioners in the state, so that they can earn the same as others when they do a job for the government. The curtailment of the pension is another question, but the Right believes that it is deeply unfair that, for example: One who works as a summer victor must earn significantly less per year. hours just because he's a retired person.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2605	It is right, as the representative Bent Höie says, that today's service pension scheme provides for an old-age pension to be abolished and not paid in addition to wages. As an alternative, when you've gone off and wanted – as the representative Höie was in it – to take a vicariate, or what it should be, you can choose a scheme that one has in the country, which is called a pension pay. This means that if the pensioner chooses a payoff after this option, a non-age pension will be reduced, and a fixed hourly rate will be applied to the work done. As of 1 January 2009, the hourly rate is NOK 155 per year. hour. The hourly rate referred to in the setting is based on the response received by the representative Höie in 2006. However, this option is only for short-term exposure, and it is the Ministry of Consumers and Administration that regulates the hourly rate once a year. In terms of tariffs, we had both a expectation and a sense of doing something about the state pension legislation, which we had for the municipal pension list too, because we had the service pensions in the public sector under negotiation. The government's model, which was presented in the first offer, was just a model similar to the private sector, where one could combine pensions and jobs without curtailment. So the employee organisations chose not to accept it. Then we're back to the scheme we've had, that one gets curtailed if one works well after taking out a pension in the public sector. The parties themselves have a desire to do so. They had another option. They said no. In the follow-up to the tariff settlement, we now need to assess whether there is a need for changes in the current system, with a reduction in retirement pension relative to labour income. It's possible -- I won't reject it 100 pst. – that one should also look at the retirement pay, but it should be much more when, after all, we left an alternative model on the table when it was free to combine work and pay, as the counterparty, i.e. employees' organisations, the employees' organisations themselves have refused to do so. Then you ask how much you want to enter and give them, the same conditions as you have in the private sector, since they chose to keep the model they have today. But, like I said, we're going to adapt it. We have to go through it and look at the consequences, and then we'll see if these questions show up. I do not reject it, but I do not give any promises either.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2622	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4014]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2639	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2648	This thing has a lot of perspectives behind it. Firstly, this is in line with our view at the end of the day on the possibility of ensuring a good quality of our key welfare tasks, school and health. If you look in a long-term perspective, it will be our ability to recruit good people, to take education as nurses, as teachers, which will be absolutely crucial to the quality of public services. Today, we have too many unskilled workers working in the care sector in the municipalities. It's giving us a measure of the quality. We know that better skills and longer-term education are of great importance in preventing, for example: Nursing in our hospitals, which is widespread, and to prevent mistreatment in our hospitals, which is widespread. We also know that one in five students leave school without being able to read and write properly. This means that education must pay off also for those who want to take a training course that leads to a mainly public sector job. The government-appointed Equal pay Commission has reviewed the issue of equal pay in Norway. Their main conclusion is that we have a sex-shared labour market in Norway, which leads to inequality in pay, because people with higher education who work in the public sector earn 80 cents where people with higher education who work in the private sector earn 1 cents. When it is also the case that women are the main candidates for jobs requiring higher education in the public sector, this issue also has a clear gender perspective. The gender perspective is reflected in the work of the Equal pay Commission, which draws two main conclusions: that we have a sex-shared labour market, where the main pay gap is between the public sector educational groups versus the private sector, and, as the minority in the Equal pay Commission states, that there is the front-line model, with the prioritisation of the low-wage groups in the private sector and the LO-organised in the 1980s and 1990s, which has in reality made the issue of equal pay a matter not of prioritizing the low-wage groups, as it was in the past, but of prioritising the educational groups. The right has therefore gone for a model that we call a competence pot. In reality, these are the same instruments as proposed by the Equal Opportunities Commission. It is therefore gratifying that in the setting-up of this case, all the bourgeois parties, the Right, the Christian People's Party, the Party of Advancement and the Left, stand together in a note that addresses the key elements of the work of the Equal Pay Commission and the key instruments for equal pay in Norway, namely the agreement that a pool of skills must be established in the public sector settlements, which are outside the framework of ordinary pay and that the State must cooperate with the local government sector and thus also take responsibility for obtaining a pay increase for the education groups in the municipal sector. This is the key instrument, a few will do something about these pay differentials and ensure a level of pay for those with higher education in the public sector, which will make the public sector competitive over the years to come. It is also right to note that government parties do not give any indication at all that they are willing to use these instruments. Then you can write up and down as much as you want about how busy you are of equal pay, but you're not willing to use the tools to do something about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2661	Wages and salaries are the responsibility of the social partners. Now the Progress Party proposes that we raise the issue of salary for some groups out of negotiations and determine the salary for large groups of employees here in the UK. This will be supported by one of the main principles of the Norwegian wage formation model, a model that has brought about the harmonisation of pay differentials, responsible settlement and social responsibility. There is no doubt that the Workers' Party is engaged in a raise for the low pay groups and in the fight for equal pay. There is a set of instruments to achieve equal pay. This is also confirmed by the Equal pay Commission, among others. discusses the more sharing of maternity leave, the recruitment of several women for leadership positions and the strengthening of the gender equality law. All the proposals that the Progress Party is opposed to. The red-green government has made it clear that in the coming settlement it has the aim of contributing to raising women's wages and low wages, but this must of course be part of the negotiations. It is a challenge that many jobs are involuntarily part-time. Municipalities must focus on providing full-time jobs to those who want to do so. Many municipalities have already made a great effort to do something about this, and we see that in many places they are now showing good results. Another important tool is the provisions of the Working Environment Act on the right of priority for the enlarged position, which our government introduced in 2006. The same is the decision on equal opportunities for shifts and turns, which was made earlier this year. The Progress Party has always been an anti-equality party and has voted against most measures and reforms that can improve the situation for women. They're going to wind up the Equality Act. They want to drop the Equality Ombudsman. They radically cut research into gender and gender equality. And they're against any kind of quotaing of women. When the Progress Party and Siv Jensen now say that they will do something for equal pay and for the low pay groups, it has no credibility. It took exactly 22 days from Siv Jensen to promote the proposal for equal pay and raising low pay groups to the Progress Party chose not to adopt anything about this in its new programme. On the contrary, the Progress Party points out that it is not a public task to balance wage differences arising in the labour market. This cannot be said more clearly than the representative of the party of Great Britain Kenneth Svendsen said in a debate on solidarity earlier this week: ‘First, there is competition for wages and salaries in Norway today and there is healthy competition. That's why we have different levels of pay in the different professions.' As you know, the Progress Party is also not a major supporter of collective agreements, one of the really important means of providing individual groups with a pay gap. Their programme emphasises the increased use of local negotiations. So in the world of the Progress Party, each of the same women they're so concerned about must stand alone and negotiate their wages. How has the Progress Party actually intended to provide a pay gap for women in the low-wage professions? I am mildly surprised by the proposal of the Progress Party and Siv Jensen. Yes, I actually have problems taking the proposal seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2685	The summary in NOU 2008:6 includes: the following conclusion: ‘The main conclusion is that the labour market is divided and that the pay gap follows this division. Among other things, the problem of equal pay becomes a question of the level of pay in women’s prisons, for both women and men.’ This is no new phenomenon. It's been like this for years, with changing governments. In 1985, the average woman made about 85 pst. of a man's salary per month hour, in 2007 84.7 pst. Calculations from the Education Association show that we need 5,700 teachers, and the Health Directorate believes that there is a need to train 4,500 health professionals every year for the next few years. These are professions dominated by women, and for which we have an alarming need to increase the rate of education. Wages and salaries will be very important in this context. It was therefore strange to read Lisbeth Normann's warning to his members to vote in the Advance Party at the autumn elections. Her reason was that she had not found anything about equal pay in the party program of the Progress Party. Is that what I've learned in all these years as a politician, is that people want action and not talk. Their daily lives are not changed by fine party programs and tumultuous promises from the pulpit. Changes in society are the result of concrete proposals for change and of the adoption of these proposals. After reading Normann's warnings to his members, it's close to thinking that not all unions have done a good enough job for their members, or have prioritised pay particularly high. The nurses' union has in fact said no to a paylift, and I wonder whether all the members of the association agree to such a position. The head of the nurses' union has more faith in those parties that haven't done anything about the problem in the four years they've been in power than in the party that actually does something concrete. Government parties are more concerned about continuing to talk and continuing to pretend this is an important matter. In Rome's Blade on June 4th, Dagfinn Sundsbø from the Center Party had a reading article about equal pay. I'm quoting from this reading post. ‘The party will follow up the Commission’s proposal to designate wage and salary earners in the national and municipal settlements to balance the pay gap If we do not receive support from the Stortinget and the Government to do something about this now, we will work to get it done in the next round.’ [[...]] To Sundsbø and his party traps I have the following message: In order to wish for support in the Stortinget for a matter you must necessarily support it yourself. After voting on this matter later today, the Centre Party has simply no longer any credibility in the issue of equal pay. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State writes: ‘The Government supports the objective of equality between women and men.’ Furthermore, the Council of State states that ‘it is the government’s view that there are parties in each tariff area who need to find solutions within their tariff area’. This view is not even supported by representatives of government parties. In an inter-pell debate on 4 June, what the Government would do to counter the continuing increase in pay differentials was discussed. Rolf Rekvam of SV then said: ‘Women serve only approx. 85 pst. of what men serve. Obviously, you can't do anything about this in your tariff arrangements. This obviously does not allow the negotiation system to catch up and do anything about it. [[...]] Then the question is, do we think it's right to intervene in the collective bargaining with an equal pay pot? I think it's necessary. I am absolutely convinced that this is necessary." The party considers that there is a need to make use of the tools of the Equal pay Commission, among others. a pool of competence for the settlements in the public sector in the years to come. This pot must be outside the normal wage-fixing framework and compensated by the country. The Progress Party has realised that such measures are necessary to lift the female-dominated professions in the public sector. History shows that this cannot be left to the parties alone. The Government Parties refer to a protocol entry during the tariff negotiations in the State this year and believe that they have done enough in the matter. For the Progress Party, it is about concrete action. I take this into account the proposals made by the Progress Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2730	The representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2733	The roads of politicians are often unanswerable. This is a matter in which it is not easy to see the relationship between what one has stood for and what one has done, and what one has proposed. It is probably true that there is nothing in the Progress Party programme on equal pay. But there is a part of what is the role of politicians in tariff settlements. It says that it is not a public task to balance wage differences that naturally arise in the labour market. So it is not the task of the politicians or the public. It is, of course, extremely bad in line with the proposal that has been put forward here today. This wording was included in the programme of the Progress Party at the national meeting earlier this year. In the past, the Progress Party has said a good deal about equal pay. In the context of the state budget – in 2008 – it said: ‘These members are of the opinion that there is too much emphasis on measures to promote equality.’ And then you say, "Oh, my God. ‘These members therefore do not consider it necessary to spend large sums on equal opportunities projects under the authority of the public authorities.’ This is history, and I accept that a party will be allowed to change its position. I choose initially, as the good man I am, to say that it must be allowed for the Progress Party to mean something else today than what you meant two months ago – and not just anything else, but something diametrically different than what you meant two months ago. There are pay differences between men and women. The Equal Pay Commission has revealed this, and it is also clear that if we are to make some of these differences, it has to be linked to the tariffs. It's through the tariffs that we can make up for differences that have lasting consequences. If we try with single measures, differences can easily occur. So it's absolutely necessary if we're going to be able to even out differences – and I hope we can – that this is part of a tariff settlement. Then we have the opportunity through the state settlement. In my opinion, the State has taken an initiative with the protocol input there from the settlement of the year. It's ready. It gives strong indications that this is something that the parties in the state sector want to do something about, and something has to be done about it. In other words, the process has started within the area where the country has a direct opportunity, namely where the country is an employer. In the municipal sector, too, the parties agree that initiatives should be taken – action should be taken to balance these differences. I agree with those who say that if we are going to get a settlement that compensates for the differences in the local government sector, the local government sector has to have this compensated. The local government sector is dependent on the country in terms of transfers. I agree. It has to be if we're going to be able to make this promise. We in SV are clear and clear that the tariff settlement is the place, the tariff settlement provides the opportunities, and the parties should do the job. But we also see that if we're going to be able to take this grip, which can be extensive and which is economically demanding, we're going to have to put in an equal pay pot. So the state has to show in the negotiations, like a collective bargaining party, that it is willing to contribute money to balance pay differentials. That grip has to be taken, and I feel confident that we will be able to win with it. This is a vision that we in SV, as opposed to other parties, have had for a long time – also in our program. Now we see that the process is going on. So finally a little comment to Bent Höie. It is written page up and down – there we are probably too far in the same booth regarding this matter. And the right hand side prints up and down without any specific suggestions. In contrast to the Right, however, the year’s tariff settlement and the protocol supply are the result of, among other things, The employer side, where the government – our government – is the employer, shows that you are taking a grip, here you start a process. I can promise that SV will in the future be a driver of a pot and that we will make these pay differences even.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2765	Equality is based on the value of women and men and shall have the same opportunities and rights. Gender shall not prevent anyone from participating in and affecting the development of society. Equality is about gender not being an obstacle to choosing education, occupation, participation in child care and participation in society as a whole. In an equal society, there must be respect for the individual's choice of lifestyle, education or work. The Christian People's Party believes that it is important to do something about the sex-shared labour market and the gender pay challenges. Equal pay is primarily a matter of justice. Equal pay is important for women to be paid out for the education they have taken in order to be able to support themselves and ensure financial security for old age. With more equal pay between the sexes, the leave sharing will be more even, and the family can make freer choices in terms of work sharing, cash support, etc. Gender equality is hampered by the fact that traditional women's workers have not received a legitimate wage increase in line with other occupations. Equal pay for equal work is a matter of justice. When women's pay level is 15 pst. lower than men, there is still a long way to go. The Christian People's Party believes that it is relevant to look at management cultures etc. as a reason why women are not allowed to participate in wage developments in the same way as men, rather than blame it for the time when women are at home in parental leave, which creates the pay gap. The fair thing would be that everyone got to participate in the wage development that happens in a job while they're on leave. The Christian People's Party believes that there should be a timetable by the social partners to remedy discrimination between women and men in terms of pay and working conditions and the introduction of an equal pay pot as an instrument. The Government should promote an equal pay obliging plan and contribute to measures for women-dominated public sector education groups, in line with the recommendations of the Equal pay Commission. Many workers in women’s dominated professions work in part-time jobs but have a desire to increase their employment rate. The Christian People's Party will continue to work against involuntary part-time. The Christian People's Party believes that the rule of exception that an increase in the rate of employment can be refused should this result in «significant disadvantages to the enterprise» have to be interpreted strictly. At the same time, we must recognise that part-time jobs in some contexts are partly involuntary in the sense that the workload is so hard that it is impossible to work full-time. It's also part of this truth. I will not add anything more or repeat all the arguments used in this case. I just want to say that the Christian People's Party supports the Committee's position that the proposal should be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2780	There is an obvious problem that there is so much difference in pay levels between men and women. We need more women in traditional human occupations, and we need more men in traditional women's churches. Very few men today choose to become nurses, e.g. We have one of the sexiest labour markets in Europe. The question is, how can this be resolved? Of course, from a political point of view, only incentives can be used to reverse this challenge. It is an important principle that education should pay off. That is why we support the intention of the proposal. It's in the public sector we're going to lack labour in the years to come. Calculations from the Education Association show that we need 5,700 teachers in school today. The Ministry of Knowledge has itself estimated that we need more than 7 000 new teachers by 2020, if all factors are kept constant and the number of hours is not extended. The Health Directorate believes that there is a need to train 4,500 health professionals every year over the next few years. If the decline in the candidate mass is not reversed, the situation may be even more dramatic than previously feared. The most pessimistic scenario is 40,000 in deficit in 2030, showing new estimates from the SSB. For nurses in isolation, the figure will be 7,700 by 2020, but then the quality improvement we use in the community health service has not been taken into account. We therefore support, as I said, the intention of the draft representative and the results of the decision of the Equal Opportunities Commission. Then we get back to the device on a competence pot. The left is very concerned with the challenges facing the welfare state in the coming years, with an increase in the number of elderly people in need of care and the lack of people able to carry out care tasks. Here we think it's not just pay that's a determining factor to make people choose these professions. Good professional environments, the experience of doing a meaningful and exciting job and career opportunities are all factors that play a role. Today too many time pressures, not enough opportunity to carry out the most important tasks, a strenuous form field, and not least the media descriptions of the poor conditions in the sector. Therefore, a better gender balance within the professions is also about all these factors. In Denmark, an increase in the number of male care professionals was observed after the introduction of handheld PCs into home care. So more technical equipment attracts more men. In the case of purely wage incentives, the Left has some very specific proposals. We want to put in place a system of remission of study debts for all health workers who want to work in the primary health service. If we are to meet the need for labour in the future, every third person who leaves high school has to choose health education. We need more incentives and good professional environments to be able to provide good care. We imagine a split layer between the state and the municipality to finance the scheme. Today, we have a great deal of unskilled people in the care sector. Part of them choose part-time education to increase their competence. Then it's important to have schemes that make it attractive. If we're going to get better quality, we need people with more skills.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2799	One of the most unfair things about Norwegian society is that we have pay by sex. The average salary for women is about 15 pst. lower than men, and so it has been far too long. Therefore, it is important to ensure equal pay, but the proposals of the Progress Party today are not a proposal for equal pay. The progress game doesn't mention even the same amount of time in its game programme. People want action, not fine wording, said the representative of Kjenaas Kjos. But the point is not that the party program of the Progress Party lacks formulations – on the contrary, they write a lot about equal pay, but they argue against equal pay. They say, for example,\t\t You can change the «It is not a government task to balance the natural wage differences arising in the labour market.» Obviously, the political actions the political party voters should expect from their party can not be written. But if this has expired, maybe one can get all the other decisions that the Progress Party has just made, which have also expired, in the election campaign that we have in front of us. Besides, I read from the Progress Party's comments that one of the main problems for nurses and caregivers is that they work in the public sector. The lead party’s primary position is to resolve the gender equality challenge of competitive outsourcing and privatisation. I don't think the women who work in the public sector today want to be offered, and I don't think that's what gives equal pay. The opinion of the Committee refers to the Likeløn Commission. It was in the context of the management of the 2005 Stortingen Power and Democracy Communication that we supported the creation of a Equality Commission. But it was rejected by the Bondevik II government and the Progress Party. The Progress Party considered that ‘the society cannot adopt a better equality between women and men’. So the Lone Commissioner was put down because of the red-green water option. So today, we don't just have a live debate on equal pay, we don't have at least four years of action on equal pay. As I said, commissions and words don't help on their own. On my initiative, I already set up in the autumn of 2006 a joint group in the State sector to ensure equal pay in the context of the tariff settlement in the country. We've prioritised equal pay in all pay decisions then. The European Commission points out that the long absence of many women from birth is an important cause of the pay gap. All right. The government has thus double the birth-perm birth-perm ratio, so that fathers take a greater responsibility in the world by family increase. The last thing we did in ours was to equate shiftwork and tour work, which is not least an important step in the direction of equal pay. In this year's collective bargaining in the state, we were, as Rolf Reikvam mentioned, some about continuing the equal pay work and, in 2010, setting up a partisan working group to work on proposals to ensure equal pay in the state. Ein shall be based on the report of the Likelön Commission. The opposition has forgotten the statements made by the Likeløn Commission. If you want to perform an equal opportunities lift, it is important that you get a permanent lift. The multiplicity of the Licensing Commission writes: ‘It is assumed that an agreement is reached between the parties that public sector wage growth may be higher than in the private sector and that new relative wage ratios between groups do not trigger compensation requirements.’ And on the other hand, ‘The salary level may not be administratively carried out by the authorities alone.’ I agree with the Likelön Commission. It is absolutely necessary that an exceptional wage rise is part of the normal negotiations between the social partners. If a non-compulsory contract is not made, other employee organisations will demand compensation so that the pay gap persists. The Licensing Commission goes so far as to warn against introducing an equal opportunities pot without these provisions being in place. Likeløn is a distribution question, not just a question of the lie. The Licensing Commission made extensive and important proposals. These proposals must be thoroughly dealt with by the government and at large, not in the context of a document No: 8 proposal, put forward in the middle of a conciliation procedure and with a secure assurance that decisions had been taken – long after the settlement of wages had ended. The government has a firm expectation and a goal that one in the future should help raise the salaries of women and other low pay. We're likely to have that done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2845	The President will now state that Tone Merete Sønsterud is present and has a seat. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2853	Both the Centre Party and SV have fixed an equal pay spot in their new programming programmes. It doesn't have the Workers' Party. The Labour Party consistently avoids using the concept of an equal pay pot, both in its programmes, in its speeches and, not least, in this setting, while consistently always talking about equal pay and low pay in the same sentence. My question to the Council of State is, does she think it would be possible to correct these large pay differences without using an instrument such as an equal pay pot, or a qualifying pot, outside the framework of normal settlements? Will it be possible to correct these differences in pay without using this instrument?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2860	It is quite right for the representative, Mr Höie, to say that the different parties of government have different formulations related to what one should do in the next period. This proposal is pending for the current period. The government has not handled the Licensing Commission's settings. As a result, this government has not taken a position on the proposals in place. I'm not going to predict what's going to happen in the next period. We in SV bring in our program formulation. We're going to win an election first, and then we're going to conduct new government negotiations. This means that the strength of the three different parties from the voters will be important for what things you win, and for what things you lose. But, anyway, all three parties – unlike the mayors – have made a commitment to work for equal pay in the next period. It's the most important and the most important starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2869	My challenge to the Council of State was not to predict election outcomes, negotiating outcomes or what the Government is going to do in the next period. My question to the Council of State was: does she think it is possible to achieve equal pay in Norway, without using the instrument as an equal pay pot, or as a competence pot, other than the normal wage-making framework? Short and concise: Will it be possible?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2874	I now have a seat for four years as a government employer and as a priority equal pay, contrary to what the previous government did in its specifications. I've seen that it's possible, even by using tariff fixing's instruments, to do something for equal pay. Among other things, in connection with the local negotiations last year, we ordered that women on maternity leave should also be part of the local negotiations. It's possible to use such instruments. There is a very clear setting from the Likelön Commission. It has the SV as the party takes the position, and we go in for it. As I say, the negotiations to the fall will show what a new red-green government is going to have to mean about a favorite pot. But it would also be possible to work with equal pay without any equal opportunities. The SV's position is to go in for a draw pot.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2881	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2886	I have followed this debate with great interest, which has ended in a hard attack on the Progress Party, erroneous quotations from the Progress Party and the barn and very little about what the red-green parties really think about increasing the salary of women-dominated low-wage workers. It tells me that the red-green parties are scrambled by a bad conscience on this issue. These are issues where you're incredibly good at participating in the public vocabulary and talk about the importance of increasing wages in these professions, but so you don't do any of the world's things with it. State councils just said that she has been a state employer for almost four years. She also claimed that she had prioritised equal pay. I am not quite sure whether it is perceived as such by the employees for whom the Council of State is responsible, because during this government it has not been possible to see the compensation of employees. So you try to push this away by saying that this is the responsibility of the parties. After all, no one disagrees with the fact that wage negotiations are to take place between the parties. However, in the case of women-dominated low-wage professions, it is essentially the government that is the employer. In other words, it is we politicians who are responsible for what kind of salary we offer to the employees of the state and municipality. It's possible that it's very hard to understand, but that's the truth. Citing the Progress Party programme, which states correctly that it is not a political task to ‘balance wage differences naturally arising in the labour market’, means, of course, that we have no ambition to enter into and regulate wage settlements for shiftworkers or for others in the private sector. It is about taking responsibility in the areas where you are actually an employer yourself. And so the state has neglected all these years when you see that those who are the real low-paid people in our society today have their jobs in the public sector. Then it's a political responsibility to do something about it, but the bad conscience that tickles from the red-green representatives in this room tells me that you haven't thought to do anything about it. When I heard the statement to the Council of State, I got the impression that this government has done so much on this issue. When she was put to the wall in the cord change, she recognized that it was because of the disagreement between the red-green parts that nothing had been done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2899	By following this debate, I have recorded that there is a long way between what is said in the celebrations and what is done in concrete action. The size is actually invited to take a concrete step to give an armstroke to women in low-paid women-dominated professions. Unfortunately, the majority again say no to that. I expect that in the upcoming election campaign they will also make the same beautiful promises and the same celebrations for all these women who work in low-paid professions today. They will hear that from the majority parties. I also think they should bear in mind that they are doing little through concrete policies and through concrete action. I challenged LO in advance of the LO Congress to put this on the agenda, and it was actually put on the agenda at the LO Congress. It was also interesting to listen to the representative of Reikvam and the Council of State, where you could get the impression that it's done a lot in the last four years. If you also attended the LO Congress, it became clear that this is a matter that you have fought for over decades, without moving a millimeter. That's what came out clearly. It's all these women who work in the women's dominated professions, also claiming that there has been no rotation at all. If I had been the councillor, I would have been a little embarrassed if I had gone out and said that I have done so much with it, because it has one not marked. It has also been interesting to register that, among other things. The representative Christoffersen of the Workers' Party went out to me earlier this year in the media and said in connection with this proposal that this is typical of the Progress Party, that there is easy-to-buy argument, and you think you should solve everything by just giving more money. But in this case, it's actually about more money. You should also remember what the LO leader said at the congress, that if we are to get this solved, we need money. Then you get to call it what you want, money is money, he said. Then my question to the Labour Party is: Is it so to understand that the Labour Party now disagrees with the statements of the LO President on the low-wage problem, which clearly agree with the Progress Party in this matter? In conclusion, I understand that it hurts the government parties that this proposal has come, especially in view of all the celebrations that have been held in the election campaign after election, year after year. I understand that it hurts when you get to the finish line and don't have the ability to deliver.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2912	It's obvious that there's a big difference in this setting between the civil parties on the one hand, and the government parties on the other. The government parties are unable to agree on anything but that they agree that equal pay is fine, and they have spent a long time doing so. The representative, Mr Reikvam, spoke in Dagbladet recently. It says the following: «He does not conceal that it is Ap that has slowed down, and that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg has read the comments from the red-green ones. – We have been involved in this matter for several days. Each word, each sentence has been felt on.’» That's what Rikvam said. It does not promise good for any negotiations to be held between these parties after the election. In this position, the civil parties have agreed on the most central instrument for equal pay, i.e. an equality of pay or a pool of skills outside the wage-fixing framework. We have agreed on that, without having to file, sit together for several days and discuss up and down. We agreed on the active substance. It didn't take us any time at all. We just stick together on this point of view. Those who are engaged in equal pay can either vote red-green and hope that the Workers' Party and the LO will turn to the Centre Party and SV, or they can vote civilly and be sure that a civil majority will do something about this, because you already agree on the most central instrument. What is it that causes the Workers' Party to have so much resistance to this instrument? Well, the answer to that is simple. It's LO – the rich uncles in LO – who put their feet down for an equal pay pot. They will not accept that the Union and the Academics will win this victory on behalf of their members, for this is about the struggle for the Hegemonia of the employee organisations. Therefore, it is more important for the Workers' Party to have a good relationship with the LO than to do something for the most important professions in society, the professional groups that bear our welfare society – the nurses and the teachers. It's the brake block. The other government parties have also been quite honest about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2928	It is quite unpleasant to hear Siv Jensen standing here and saying that what we quote is wrong. It is quite unpleasant when we read the verbatim from the programme, and we read the verbatim from comments in the budget position. Obviously, these are correct quotes. They're written and inserted in the context that they are. It surprises me. I get almost unwell when they carry on that this is not correct, this is wrong, this is not even quoted. Well, this is quoted correctly. This is what the Progress Party has meant. So I say, great, the progress party has changed its position. I said that instead, and as the good man I am, I choose to believe that they have changed their position, that this is not some kind of opportunism. This makes the pressure on the future even bigger on these questions. That's my starting point. But end up saying that we quote errors when we read from the text that they themselves have written. Then I register Bent Höie's analysis of the cause of these problems, that there are conflicts between different employee organisations on the labour side. I don't know if that's right, and I'm a little unsure whether the analysis is as simple as Bent Höie said. But what has happened – and it surprises me that it is not registered – is that the Equal Pay Commission’s detection of the problems they are raising was part of the collective bargaining process. The tariff settlement has been settled and the parties to the settlement agree on a protocol entry and agree that this work should start. That's the actual ratio, and that's the first time it happens. Then I can say about those who ruled in the last four-year period, that they couldn't start such a process. What's happening now is that we're in the process, and I feel reasonably confident that we're getting a development here. There can be no doubt that if something is going to happen, if we're going to get a solution, it has to be done in terms of tariffs. If we get a pot, like we've got the programming -- we've said that an equal pay pot is needed -- I feel reasonably confident that the tariff decisions will find a solution in the future, and that we'll start on that path and the process that will lead to these differences that are established over a long period of time being eliminated and evened out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2937	Equal pay is important. I have now been sitting on the Stortinget for 12 years, and for many years we have been proposing an equal pay pot. We have also suggested setting up an equal pay commission, and we got that when we sailed into government. In the last period, there was great resistance in Stortinget to doing what makes you get the foundation that can say how to solve this. I have been conducting wage negotiations in a county municipality for eight years. We had a strategy to get equal pay, and we could do something about it through the local pot. It might have been possible to achieve targets if you had a time perspective of 25-30 years. We think that's a long time. It's possible to do something like that, but then you have to do it every year, and then you have to make sure not to again cancel out the differences, which occurs the next time. That's why it's important to talk seriously about equal pay, that we follow the line that the Equal pay Commission has told us to follow, that you have to have both an equal pay pot – and it's not a one-off event, it's got to be something you're committed to over several years, if you're going to get it evened out – and you have to have an agreement between the social partners that says this shouldn't be zeroed out at the next round. We who have been involved in wage negotiations and employers – well, notice, that’s what I was, I was an employer for 4,700 people – feel that then the question comes up about who should have compensated for what happened last year, because someone else got something. That agreement must be in place and be long-term. It has to be at the bottom when you're going to do this. Those assumptions are extremely important in place. What the Progress Party is doing now, I see as a one-night stand. Getting equal pay is a long-term commitment, almost like marriage. I'm not going to go into what people do otherwise, but if you're going to get something as long-term as equal pay, you're going to have to commit to that over several years, and you're going to have to commit yourself to not being left behind at the next settlement. Then I recommend to those who are busy with equal pay, to choose some partners during the course that have been busy with it for a long time, and who don't do it for one reason, namely, that it should be annoying for someone. For the most part, the proposal is not credible when it is not combined with a batch programme or attitude that requires equal pay to be important, and that one should have central wage negotiations, which are the precondition for getting one to do so, and that it should be lasting over a little more than a single year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2947	The President will say that one night stand is unparliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2950	It is interesting to see how SV more or less crawls over the floor with its problems when it comes to being able to deal with such a proposal. It is certainly easy for Rolf Reikvam to claim: I have great faith in this that you can solve for the next four years! If I have understood correctly, this is the last period that Reikvam is sitting on the Stortinget, and nothing has been done to solve this problem. I hear that you are very concerned about the Progress Party, and what the Progress Party has in its program. Well, if you turn around the issue of equality on your head, you actually have LO and the Labour Party more or less sitting on both sides of the table for 80 years, and we haven't yet got a roughly equal pay distribution between men and women when we talk about public matters. So for 80 years you've been sitting on both sides of the table, and you haven't been able to solve the most essential problems we have. It's clear that if we're going to be able to deal with the early wave that's coming, we actually need to have warm hands in our health care system. Today's government is unable to deliver. When Inge Wohnung stands on the pulpit here and says that we have rarely or never had a party that has looked until those degrees have become politically correct and behaved like a slipper of politics, that is true of reality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2959	It surprises me that those who take the word from SV, including the Council of State, are so busy trying to distance themselves from parties that agree with them, instead of being happy that a matter that SV himself says they have worked for for many years, has got a wider connection than what has been before. If the most important thing for SV was to get equal pay, they should have used it today to be satisfied that their desire for an equal pay pot has been extended, and not frantically trying to present it as if those who are now in this setting are expressing their desire for an equal pay pot or equal pay pot really think the opposite. I believe that those who are concerned about this in the workplace, the employee organisations who want such a solution, register which parties that believe what in this setting, and who they can possibly trust after the election. I took the floor because I need to explain why the Right votes against proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. There's two reasons for that. The first reason is that we believe that this is a matter which, by its very nature, is best and must be managed from the government offices, where one sits with all the means. That's why we're sketching our model very clearly in the setting, but in the notation, because it tells us what Right will do if we get into government. The second reason is that one of the proposals of the Progress Party uses the term ‘women’s dominated low-wage professions in the public sector’. When a user’s concept of ‘low-wage workers’ may be confused with those low-wage workers without higher education who are currently covered by the low-wage definition. These are people who have 90 pst. of average wages and salaries of industrial workers, per today is NOK 319,000. Lifting them won't correct the big pay gap. The right-hand priority is for the educational groups because there is the greatest difference in pay. These are the two reasons why we cannot vote in favour of these proposals. I fully agree with Mr Andersen's description of the instruments to be used when sitting at the negotiating table. What I do not understand is that one does not also recognize that the political instrument in this case is the equal pay pot or the pool of skills. That is the political instrument we should consider in this Chamber. The way a negotiator works, there's no political disagreement about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2968	Just to comment on some of the claims made during the debate: when Bent Höie tries to describe the differences between the civil and government parties, it sounds as if there is consensus on the civil side. He forgets to say that they are not some with the Progress Party on the profile of the payroll and therefore do not vote in favour of the proposal. It is true that the other three civil parties are in a position to comment, but what does the government party do? Yeah, the government party is acting and has been doing business for four years. It's the most significant difference between the bourgeois and the red-green, that they're dealing red-green. As I said, I can just repeat some of what we've done in addition to giving priority to equal pay as part of the gender perspective. It is not possible to be too equal without seeing it in a larger equality context. Then the red-green parties can scroll up and down not only with fine formulations, but with actions, concrete voting in this room and not least concrete action from the Council of State. As I said, the last thing we've done in this period now in ours is to equate shifts/turns that have been a year-long problem that one has had trouble figuring out how to solve. We put down the Holden selection, and we did what the Holden selection actually suggested, to a great deal of cheer, not least from the women in the public sector who for many years have felt unfair in not having equated their tournaments with the industry's shift. Father's quota - why is that important? Well, what I see as a government employer is, when is there a beginning few differences between women and men? It's been 30 years. When women begin to give birth after taking a long education, they leave the career ladder for a few years. They'll be back in their 40s. Then the karanes take off, both in pay and in career development. Well, what can we do about it? Yeah, of course, we have to get the fathers to take a greater responsibility when they get a family boost. Then the women are part of the working life in a completely different way and are on the trains that go. One also gets a shared care for the young, which not least the young enjoy. Putting it into a larger context is what makes equality work credible and credible. That's when the Progress Party so totally crashes. Now I'm not going to repeat the unparliamentary vocabulary of Karin Andersen, but her point was that here there's nothing before and nothing after. No well, therefore, the three government parties have not found reason to support these proposals, but on the contrary, they have continued their years of good work which has actually resulted in good cooperation with the social partners.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2977	I'm very happy for everyone who's busy with equal pay, but I've probably been with it for so long that I'm a little bit different from what I see is almost pure opportunism, and what's serious. Had it been important to have a majority in favour of a proposal on equal pay, the proposal had been seriously worked on, and had been dealt with by the Equal pay Commission — at least in the vicinity of it. They had also been said to have made contact with other parties to get a discussion about it initially, if you were dedicated to securing a majority. This makes me a little surprised that the Right jumps on the proposal – they have been opposed to investigating the possibility of equal pay, they were against the Equal pay Commission. When this proposal comes suddenly, they suddenly jump on it, even though it's actually not a proposal for equal pay, or a follow-up to the Equal pay Commission. It is going to be – to put it that way – a long-term commitment both by political authorities to put in place an equal pay pot, and by the social partners to keep it going over time. The proposal under consideration is a pot, it is not a plan. It doesn't apply to everyone, it only applies to someone. Then we see no reason to support that proposal. We have to work seriously on this, because we know it's going to be demanding, it's going to require coordinated action from central governments and cooperation with the social partners. But we're gonna get it done. This is one of the most important issues for SV, and I sincerely hope that the parties that are close to us will also be involved. In this way, this civil initiative can help put pressure on the case, which makes it impossible not to go further. But I think those parties must note that the organisations that have seen this proposal have judged this stunt – as this proposal has been – as so unprofessional that they have chosen not to trust it. It has to be linked to the policies you stand for otherwise, if it is to be credible, and, to put it that way, you can have an thoughtful view of it, which means that these initiatives not only become something you choose to flag when there is a mood for it, but something you hold fast, even through times when it may not be the most popular and what is at the top of the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2988	The President will not try to dampen the debate, but will only remind you that there are a lot of things left, and it is a goal for the Storting to do voting before we see the Storting tomorrow at noon. 9th@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e2991	We tolerate some night work now at the end of the session. There is little credibility behind SV's attempt to present it as if they have control in this matter, and that everything is in its best order. First of all, the nurses' union would not have focused on equal pay and the campaign they've had this spring, if they thought that the red-green government was doing what was expected. And secondly, in that case, Rolf Reikvam, the SV spokesperson in the field, had not said this about this setting of the newspaper on June 15th this year: ‘It is not least comfortable in an area where SV has made such a clear mark. We should have done more, but this is a compromise, and this is what we got. There are those who do not want to commit, and those who want politicians to keep their hands off pay negotiations.’ That's enough proof for me that SV is in no way satisfied with the state of things. They should be honest enough to say that. I then react to the fact that the representative, Andersen, presents it as if the Right-Hop on a proposal from the Progress Party in this matter. The right-hand proposal for a pool of competences was promoted by the Right long before this Document No. The 8-proposal was promoted. That is the result of the fact that the Right has a party-internal sample that has worked with public sector employers' policies and that I have managed myself. It is a thoughtful, reworked proposal that has been boasted by the Nurses' Association and the Union, which has been included in this position, and which is also the proposal that has managed to bring together all the bourgeois parties. So this is not an easy proposal – this is a reworked proposal, among other things. takes over the work of the Equal pay Commission.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3005	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 4015]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3022	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3031	The social security discussions of the year were completed on 19 May. It was then agreed that the average basic amount would be increased by 4.2 pst, and that you would follow up the escalation when it came to the special supplement for lone minimum pensioners, from 94 pst. by G to 97 pst. by G. That means that the new basic amount increased from NOK 70,256 to NOK 72,881. It also means that a lone minimum pensioner with this social security scheme will receive an annual income of NOK 143 568 in retirement. I refer you to the Committee's attitude. Then I would like to say a little about the Progress Party's proposal for this social security settlement. We were, as we know, very disappointed about the social security arrangements that were carried out last year, where 0.65 pst was used. the reduction to increase only for the lone minimum pensioners. Of course, we didn't disagree with the fact that lone minimum pensioners were going to get a raise, because the Progress Party also promoted that time, like this year, the minimum pension for everyone was going to be 2 G. What we disagreed about, on the other hand, was that one group of pensioners was being followed, instead of using it according to the guidelines adopted by the Stortinge, and increasing the basic amount further. This meant that last year almost 2 billion kroner were collected from the country's pensioners, money that they should have in retirement. If we look at this year's social security bill, it's still underregulation. I then refer you to the letter from the Defence Pensioners' Association, which refers to an underregulation of 0.5 pst. That means that this year, too, you're moving in at the top of 900 million. kr from the country's pensioners, money that they should have had in increased pension. The Progress Party proposes in this social security settlement to give the country's pensioners back the majority who have been raptured from them last year, while – as the only party on the Stortinget – we will follow the adopted guidelines and also compensate for the underregulation that takes place this year. The Progress Party therefore proposes an increase of 5,35 pst. in the basic amount, and we get a basic amount of 74 080 kroner. This means that, according to the proposal of the Progress Party, a single minimum pensioner would have received an increase in income of NOK 11 864 and that a minimum pension for a single person would have been NOK 148 160. We still think that it is incomprehensible to discriminate between pensioners on the basis of marital status. I should have liked to have seen that the Bondevik parties had joined the Progress Party, as in 2002, and got to a decommissioning plan at the curtailment. They have not been included in the current period, but the Progress Party is also proposing this year to create an obligating plan that will allow all pensioners, irrespective of their marital status, to receive 100 pst within three years. of the basic pension. We also believe that this should apply to minimum pensioners, and we have therefore proposed in this year's social security bill to increase the special supplement up to 2 G also for minimum pensioners who are married or cohabitants, which means that they would have had an increase of 24 870 kroner. Furthermore, the Progress Party is committed to improving the development of young people. We think it's almost been quiet here for 17 years, with the exception of last year, when you got an increase in the supplementary pension from 3.30 to 3.50 pension points. But we know that the starting point for the negotiations, if we go back two years, was an increase of 4.30 pension points. The Progress Party believes that it should be increased up to what was required at the time and has proposed it in the vote. So I'm going to take up the proposals from the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3048	The representative Robert Eriksson has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3051	The social security settlement of the year has been implemented according to the principles and guidelines set out in the Stortinget for the regulation of social security and pensions. With effect from 1 May this year, the basic amount of the population’s social security will increase by NOK 2625, from NOK 70 256 to NOK 72 881, i.e. an increase in the average basic amount from 2008 to 2009 of GBP 4.2. This social security settlement follows up the three-year plan for the minimum pension agreed during the last year's social security settlement. The first climb came last year. Now we take the next step, and next year the minimum pension is 2 G. An old demand from pensioners’ organisations is in the process of being met. This social security settlement is good, because it is based on an escalation for those who need it the most. For the majority, it is important to redistribute to the benefit of the minimum pensioners. We want a good social profile, and we're pleased that the social security partners agreed on it. The rise over three years is based on the same profile as many low-wage settlements in the private and public sectors. Solidarity within the group of pensioners is affordable. Public confidence is based on the principle of solidarity and not just on the principle of insurance. It has been given priority by the pensioners and the state. We look forward to following up the escalation of the minimum pensions also in 2010, so that you get up to twice the basic amount of the population's fear. This has been a long-term demand from pensioners, a requirement that will be important in the fight against poverty. Pensioners also get a good income trend this year, at least in line with developments in working life, and we are very pleased about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3060	SV also supports this settlement. It is based on a redistribution of funds in the last year’s settlement – not on the removal of any funds, but on the transfer of money to the minimum pensioners, in return for the government’s commitment to escalate the minimum pension to 2 G in 2010. We are following the obligating plan. That means that we have one year of redistribution, and the following years, with fresh money from the Government, we're strengthening the people's rights for the minimum pensioners significantly. This is very important for SV, because there is money right for people with bad advice. This together with the large increases that we have now introduced into the housing stock as compensation so that the minimum pensioners would not lose housing because they received a higher pension – I think it was 160 million. kr that came now – plus that we have improved the housing support so that it will take effect from 1 July, gives an annual impact of more than DKK 1 billion, money that goes right to people with small incomes and who have poor advice. The increase in housing aid will also go to some of the pensioners, but also to many others who are disadvantaged because the legislation with all these restrictions has been removed. This means that, together, these two approaches are a significant boost in the poverty rate, and SV is very happy about it. It's targeted money – directly to people with bad advice. It's been necessary and correct, and we obviously support this plan of stepping up to 2 G.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3069	The Centre Party is also pleased that the parties agreed this time on the social security settlement of the year. It is good that we landed on a frame of 4.2 pst. increase in the basic amount from 2008 to 2009. Let me briefly look at some of the things. What's important is that we have an escalation plan where the basic amount is going to go up to 2 G by 2010. I find that the special supplement – which was 80 pst. – now it has increased to 97 pst, and from 1 May 2010 it will reach 100 pst. The minimum pensioners have had a strong real growth. The widow's pension has increased more than the basic amount in the period 2008-2009, and it is also gratifying that young people who are disabled through the supplement receive a significant pension increase and are included in an escalation plan. For some, the increase is at least greater than the supplements for the wage groups that have negotiated in other sectors. On this basis, the Central Party is pleased that there is a clear majority in the Committee, all except for the members of the Progress Party, who support the position on this matter, and that a comment clearly underlines the importance of following the in-depth action plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3080	The government's great ambition in this period was to eliminate poverty. It was just about political will. But it wasn't that simple. That recognition we have had for a long time has gradually reached the government offices. But the left is a little bit critical of what is the real poverty grip: raising social assistance rates. Although it does not affect this, there is reason to mention it. Social security provision is of major importance to almost a quarter of the country’s population and is thus among the main income negotiations conducted this year. The left has called for more to be given to those who need it most throughout the period, and so the Left believes that the social security settlement of the year is also an important step in the right direction for the group that currently has the least, namely the minimum pensioners. The pension is their only income and their potential for other income is very limited. Among the lone minimum pensioners, especially women, there is a lot of poverty. For many of them, this is a raise, and we're satisfied that the minimum pension from next year is going to be 2 G. We believe that this is a step in the right direction, and the left will vote for the negotiated settlement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3095	The social security scheme is a comprehensive and important income statement. It affects all those who live by the benefits of popular peace, that is, about one million of the country's inhabitants. The individual pensioner shall be sure that he/she receives a real wage increase in his/her benefits. In addition, social security spending is of great importance to the expenditure on the State budget. Seemingly small adjustments have major government financial consequences. Therefore, it is important that we have a predictable framework for annual social security schemes. In this year’s social security settlement, the parties – i.e. the state and pensioners’, disabled persons’ and employees’ organisations – agreed to increase the basic amount by NOK 2625 from 1 May 2009. This implies an increase in all pensions and other G-regulated benefits from the social security of 4.2 pst. from 2008 to 2009, and ensure that pensioners increase purchasing power in the same way as active workers. In last year's social security settlement, the parties agreed to use parts of the financial framework for an exceptional increase in the ordinary special supplement, while increasing the basic amount in line with expected wage growth. Pensions for young people were raised, and there was agreement on a further escalation of the special supplement in 2009 and 2010. The fourth year's settlement was a splinter between the pensioners and the state. It gave a solid and very well-balanced settlement with a very good social profile, where with the lowest pensions they got the biggest additions. The year’s settlement follows up the good settlement last year. The State has followed up the promise of an increase in the minimum pension to 1.97 times the basic amount. Next year, we reach the measure of a minimum pension equal to twice the basic amount. I note that the Progress Party believes that last year's settlement, which gave an extraordinary boost to the minimum pensioners, was a clear breach of the guidelines. At the same time, they now promote proposals for changes to the pension rules which are outside the guidelines and which have not been requested by any of the parties. Otherwise, I record that the Advance Party claims that a pensioner's pensioner whose one is the minimum pensioner and the other has an additional pension is less in the total pension than if both had been the minimum pensioners. Fortunately, it is wrong, and something else would be completely unreasonable. A married couple together is guaranteed twice the normal rate of the special supplement, even where one spouse has an additional pension. These therefore also benefit from the special supplementation increase in 2008, 2009 and 2010. All pensioners have had a good income development with the year’s settlement. At the same time, the state, in close cooperation with the organisations, has managed to lift the group that may be most difficult. A single minimum pensioner will receive a new basic amount and an increased special supplement of NOK 7 272 more in retirement from 1 May of this year, i.e. an increase of 5.3 pst. Before last year's social security settlement, the minimum pension was NOK 119 820. Now it's $143 568. an increase of a total of 20 pst. in two years. Minimum pension units have also received a corresponding increase. I am pleased to have reached agreement with the organisations on the social security settlement of the year, and that we follow up this year's agreement on a further increase in the minimum pensions. This is good policy for distribution in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3114	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3117	I have a question for the Council of State that I would like to imagine hearing considerations around. It goes on what has been said in the past, that we have two rates in the special supplement for minimum pensioners, a low rate and a normal rate, which used to be called a high rate. And so are those who are married to an old-age pensioner who have a small additional salary in the population's security, who have a low rate. You could imagine a couple where both are 67 and pensioners, one has a small supplementary pension and the other is the minimum pensioner. They get a relatively poor pension together. But if you think of a couple where the wife is 67 years old and the man is 65 years old, still active and makes 1 million. kr, then she will still get a high rate in the special supplement. I want to ask the Council of State, what is the logic behind that discrimination?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3127	The whole logic around the fact that, in total, spouses have paid less than two lonely would have had the same income base is linked to the fact that we also have something in our pension scheme called survivor's pension schemes. It is true that one on the one hand takes the consequence, both in the new and in the future pension system, that household costs are relatively small for two living together, as for two lonely ones. So it's based on the benefits that everyone gets. The fact that the same assessment is not used for income-based purposes is, of course, because the income is individual. Therefore, it has been treated differently from the hedging arrangements. But on the other hand, we have the arrangement for a survivor's pension, so you don't have to go down too fast if you lose a dependant, and there's a certain relationship here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3136	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3141	I'm just recording that the majority in this room when you talk about minimum pensioners, really think about lone minimum pensioners. It's actually a little bit of a shame, because it's the lone minimum pensioners who have been given increases in the special supplement -- not all the minimum pensioners will get an increase of up to 2 G by the summer of 2010. It's wrong, because that means that you've removed a low rate, that you only have one rate. Very familiar, there has been no proposal to remove a low rate. So here I see it that way that the Council of State was a little bit unpresidious. So it's actually so that if a man is married to one who has a small supplementary pension, let's say NOK 77 000 in supplementary pension, he will get a curtailment of the basic pension. It'll both of those pensioners get, even though the wife in this case might be the minimum pensioner. You won't get that if both of them are minimum pensioners. So that's a relatively big difference. At the same time, it is also said in the article here that it was especially those with the lowest pensions who have received the largest increase. As I calculate it, it can't be quite right either, for one who has a low rate will get a much lower pension – and has always had a lower pension – than one with a normal rate. And once again, it's only for those with a normal rate of increase. It is also said in the posts here that last year's social security bill was a piece of work between the state and the pensioners. But it's pretty clear who got the bulk of that bill. It's the pensioners. Last year, the pensioners got an additional bill of exactly 1,948 million. kr, according to the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. It was in dollars and in dollars the withdrawal of the trigger of 0,65 pst. In fact, if you also read the letters that have come in connection with the social security settlement of the year, this is the case. The Swedish Armed Forces Pensioners' Association points to this underregulation by bringing – in order to become a little technical – a fictitious overhang into this social security scheme, which means that underregulation of 0.5 is actually under-regulated compared to following wage developments as calculated by the Technical Calculation Committee. It is, in my opinion, a breach of the guidelines adopted by Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3152	I just want to thank the Council of State for the clarifying information and views when it comes to curtailing pensions for married and cohabiting people. As far as I was concerned, the Council of State thought that when two pensioners who were married to each other, or were cohabitants, got less pension than they would have had if they were lonely, it was because they had lower costs of living together, and that there was something the Council of State found to be in order. I think it was nice that it was said, because it means that the Council of State does not see it as that those who have paid contributions to popular security earn some rights, but that there are social benefits that the Storting is free to do what they want to do. The Norwegian Pensioners’ Association, which has had its principal requirement for the 2010 government budget, has no reason to expect that the current government will do anything about it. I think it was nice to get that preparation this evening.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3164	The reason I asked for the word was the claim that the pensioners as a result of the last year's settlement had lost in that way the settlement was carried out. And to repeat something from last year, it's like last year all pensioners got real pay growth. Then the pensioners' organisations and the state agreed that within that framework there was reason to give priority to those who had the least, namely the minimum pensioners. So it didn't mean that the other pensioners didn't get real pay growth, but it made the real wage increase a little less because one chose to make a joint settlement. A great many of those who are engaged in retirement stoppages, such as: Harry Jørgensen, the recently retired head of the Pensioners' Association, can do anything about wage-fixing and the way the distribution in society evolves, can all say that if you really want results, you have to choose the priority within a framework, and not just say: give more money to everyone. I have to say that the efforts made by the Pensioners' Association and the other organisations, in that way, by bringing about a real promise for the minimum pensioners, a promise that came out of it, and that was not just talked out, serve both the newly retired manager, the Pensioners' Association and the other organisations in honor. They know so deeply well, because they've lived in more difficult times than what we do, that a few for a fair distribution must benefit within some framework. That's what the Pensioners' Association has chosen, it's what the organizations have chosen – they have done together with the state. There's a broad majority in the Stortinge behind it. I'm glad, because that's what gives concrete results, and that until next year is going to give twice the basic amount to the minimum pensioners.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3173	I just want to encourage the council to be so kind as to stop talking about raising for minimum pensioners when he very well knows that it was about last year, was a raise for lonely minimum pensioners. That bluff shouldn't be used in the election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3178	I'm just going to be allowed to clarify: it's right, as I said in my main post, that it's not just a raise for lonely minimum pensioners. It's also the case that couples get pleasure from the special supplement. But that's right, as Carl I. Hagen said in his first post, that the couple get, is not the corresponding sum of the two lone sheep. But married couples have also got a raise, but not the corresponding sum of 2g for two units. But if we're going to be precise on the representative of Hagen's next last day in Parliament, I think he's got to admit that there's been a raise for the minimum retirement couples, too, but that's at the level that I'm now saying.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3185	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[See page 4015]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3202	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4018]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3222	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4018]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3242	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4018]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3262	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4018]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3281	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4018]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3302	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4018]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3319	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3330	This is a joyous day for Norway as an energy nation and a petroleum nation. Today, the Stortinge adopts a new important step in Norwegian oil history. Goliath is the first oil field planned to be developed in the Barents Sea, and that is an important step. The project is thus an important milestone for the development of the petroleum industry in the northern regions and will strengthen Norway’s reputation as an energy supplier to the world. The matter has been the subject of much debate, both on the future of Norway as an oil nation and on issues such as oil protection and local ring effects. It is therefore gratifying that a large majority on the Biggest stand together and give green light to this effort. In some areas, the Left and, in part, the Christian People's Party have differing views. It will give them the opportunity to explain in their articles. When both the SV and the Progress Party agree on the content of this setting, we know that the project is politically robust. I am pleased that SV has moved far in a positive direction to get a majority in this matter. The red-green government also notes in the proposition: ‘To maintain and increase the petroleum-related activity in the north, it is dependent on both exploration and field development in the region.’ This, in my view, signals both important objectives and a proper approach. However, for personal reasons, I wanted those objectives to be reflected in an oil notification, so that they were generally applicable and not just expressed in a proposition like this. In any case, the implementation and results of the Goliath project are important because the project of many will be considered a reference point in the further oil debate in Norway. In the Goliath project, therefore, the petroleum industry must demonstrate that they control the natural conditions. This must be borne in mind when they show economic management, technology choices, local ring-effects, environmental considerations and oil protection preparedness – in order to mention something. I say this to underline the seriousness and responsibility of the builder and operator to carry out the project in the best possible way and thus create a positive ground for further petroleum activities in the Barents Sea. Goliath is located 85 km northwest of Hammerfest and 50 km south-east of the Snow White field. Eni Norway is the operator of the field and has a holding of 65 pst. Statoil has a holding of 35 pst. The reserves in the field are about 174 million barrels of oil. That'll be what one initially has to extract. Gas is present in the field, approx. Eight billion Sm3. It's not big enough to be extractable in this round, at least not commercially, and will be reinjected for pressure support in the first round. At a later stage, the operator expects that the gas will also be produced and sold. The planned start of production is 2013, and the investments related to Goliath are estimated to exceed NOK 28 billion. In addition to the expansion of Snow White, the Goliath project will be the largest industrial project ever carried out in North Norway. It's also worth noting. Technically, Goliath shall be expanded with a liquid production unit with associated sea bottom wells. The device will comply with the requirements of the Barents Sea to ensure that no discharges of water produced into the sea during normal operation will occur. A fixed anchored liquid unit has been selected to adapt to current climatic conditions. In some political environments and in parts of the business world in the north, we know that there was a desire to impose landing requirements as a development solution for Goliath. The marginal profitability of the project cannot justify such a solution and it is a reality which the Committee has taken on board. This has not been a major debate on it either. The local ring effects are strongly emphasised in the setting. It is a general goal that the petroleum industry should benefit the whole country, which I think most people feel is happening. The oil business shall also produce local ring effects. With regard to the petroleum debate that has taken place in Norway, I believe that the oil companies should also note the desire for local ring-effects in order to create the acceptance for further development of the oil industry, especially in the north. Estimates suggest that the Goliath field can, including indirect employees, provide between 450 and 600 local and regional jobs during the operational phase. I'd call that a good thing. Eni Norway will establish a completely new regional office with operational functions, which will be added to Hammerfest. The Agency will subsequently have staff within, for example: engineering, geology, reservoir engineering and administrative personnel related to the operation of the Goliath field. It shows that this is more than a simple supply-base. It also takes care of the Committee's desire to ensure that there is real activity in the Hammerfest area of the Goliath field. There will also be a helicopter terminal and supply base being added to the area. These functions will include approx. 150-200 direct jobs. I would also like to mention that the operator will adapt the contract strategy to the maintenance and operational contracts and build up local and regional competences both through educational staff in companies and in secondary schools in different ways. They will inform and qualify local and regional suppliers through so-called supplier networks and will establish hosting arrangements for local suppliers in their own organisation. It is also worth noting that Eni Norway does not have framework agreements for its deployment and operation deliveries. It allows for the outsourcing of parts of the contracts to local and regional suppliers, which allow for the development of that industry. Having said that, as a single politician, I would like to express our hope that we avoid a copy of the Luteland approach after the Stortinget has dealt with the matter, where some people get an interest in complaining or appealing to some parts of the project, and that one does not treat it in the department, and we get quasi-solutions, as we have seen in the Gjøa project. Let's take the signals that have come from the committee, which clearly says that if there are similar anchors that we have seen on Luteland, it will be dealt with quickly and quickly and will not put the project at risk, so you can see that happened to the Luteland project. The energy supply project is planned to electrify from land. The Committee is in favour of this. At the same time, there are some assumptions that have to be met. Adequate shore-side power supply is involved. It is true that the costs of action here are proportionate to what is to be expected in the current climate policy and that the technical challenges are acceptable. Full electrification of Goliath will require withdrawal of more than 100 MW from the network. Studies of the power situation show that it will not be possible in the short term. So the power situation in Finnmark does not allow full electrification, and that's what the committee has taken over. It is important to avoid having a copy of the situation, for example: in central Norway, where industrial development is permitted without the electricity supply being included. Therefore, full electrification may last as long as 10 years before it takes place, but the plan is still in place. Goliath will start with a combination solution that will both have a gas turbine on the platform that generates some megawatts, and you will get electricity from countries that account for about half the total. 20-40 MW. Now I would also like to note that the gas turbine appears to be very efficient with 75 pst. efficiency and it is significantly higher than the average efficiency of other turbines on the Norwegian base. Oil protection is also an important part of this debate. Good environmental management in general is of great importance in relation to oil activities, both in order to be accepted and in order to have a minimum risk of accidents. This applies, as I mentioned in the introduction, to emissions at sea, where we have a requirement for zero emissions in normal operation. Boreq and boreq sludge must be reinjected or taken for treatment in line with the requirements of the Barents Sea in general. However, oil protection is very important and must be of high priority. It's had it from the builder, and it's had it from the committee, and it's had it from the government. It is important to have a robust, efficient and well-adapted oil protection system at local level. The oil companies, by the operator, are responsible for dealing with acute incidents from their own activities and for the dimension of their preparedness. In relation to the distance from land, it is particularly important to have a short period of emergency so that there is no undue risk of getting oil on land by accident. It is also worth mentioning that the design of oil protection is to be addressed by the State pollution control authority when the operator applies for authorisation for activities under the pollution law for production drilling and operation in 2011 and 2013 respectively, so that industry also has some years to develop further the existing oil protection technology. I would also like to say that it is positive, as a result of the Goliath project, that oil protection will generally be strengthened, when you know that shipping along the coast will increase in the future. As a case-by-case rapporteur, I am very pleased that the Committee has been as united as it has in many areas, and I am pleased that the first oil field in the Barents Sea can be started.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3378	Today a new era is marked – the oil adventure crawls northwards. The Nordgebiet bet has been the main bet area of this red-green government, and it gives strong leadership to the petroleum activity that is now to take place in this area. It's created enormous expectations, and the visions have been up in the clouds. The opportunities offered are flashing in the eyes of people in small communities that are otherwise characterized by deportation. With both fishing, tourism, beautiful nature and now Goliath as the nearest neighbour, the people are required to take the risk, who must also have the goods in the form of jobs and activity. Goliath represents 25 000 annual works, and estimates suggest that during the operational phase there will be 450–600 local and regional jobs as a result of the expansion. In Hammerfest, an independent operations office shall be established with the operational functions such as base services, logistics, maintenance and modification activities, field planning and management. Also other functions, like the subsea activity, are to be added to Hammerfest. In addition, the operator shall also ensure that those winning central maintenance and modification contracts are present in Finnmark, and both these and the operator themselves shall also have sufficient staff in Hammerfest to perform the necessary functions to the local supplier industry. Important lessons were learned from the development of the Snow White plant. The expectations for building up the local supplier industry were high, but it was difficult for small suppliers to compete for large framework agreements – which were also generally awarded in advance. It has therefore been important to split the tenders into smaller packages in the development of Goliath, so as to help build up the local supplier industry. Supplier seminars will also be held to prepare local suppliers for the services to be provided and to qualify them to participate in these rounds. The developer shall also employ a dedicated industrial coordinator to contribute to this work. After the expansion of the Snow White project began, we see that the population of the Hammerfest region is getting younger. There has been a marked increase in the age range of 25–40 years, and young people are seeking home for exciting job opportunities. In all the input we have received from local and regional authorities, the focus is on competitive environments and education. I could not have agreed more, but at the same time I play the ball back to those authorities. The operator shall develop its own competence plan and shall implement a separate training programme in the field of drilling. There are already offers such as the ALE project at Hammerfest High School, and through the State budget, the Government has supported the construction of Energy Campus Nord, which is a cooperation between six universities and universities across the country. It is important to develop these services, so that available labour is trained in the region, but we need a concrete strategy for training provision in the region. I particularly challenge Finnmark County to coordinate that work. Political leaders who have been laid down by the Red-Green Government lead to nearly half of Goliath's power needs being met from land. When the power situation on land is strengthened, a plan shall be drawn up for the use of even more electricity. Kraft-Norge has long stopped in Balsfjord. Because of Goliath, a 420 kV line is to be finally built from Balsfjord to Hammerfest. The aim must be to extend it to Varangerbotn, so that the whole of Norway can be connected to the central network. 70 pst. Norway’s potential for wind power on land is found in Finnmark. But as long as we can't transport that flow out of the region, the wind power projects are waiting. In this way, Goliath expansion is a door opener to expand renewable energy production. There have been major debates on the EU's renewable directive. We know that Norway will also be subject to obligations. I see it as quite impossible to meet these obligations without taking advantage of the opportunities offered by power generation in Finnmark. Several opposition parties point to the plans for the construction of a gas power plant with CO2 handling in Hammerfest in their comments. The application for this is appealed to the Minister of Oil and Energy, and for us in the Workers' Party, it is unnatural to conclude in a completely different matter when we now deal with Goliath. The left even promotes proposals to postpone the whole of the Goliath case. They justify their wish to investigate this gas power plant. I challenge the Left to be honest in its position on Goliath. The left even notes that they are opposed to oil and gas production in a 50 km belt from land, and they indicate that Goliath is 48 km from land. Furthermore, I find it strange that they link gas power plants with CO2 management directly to Melkoya, a third project, which is also independent of Sargas' planned shore-based gas power plant. Through the Barents Sea Management Plan, Stortinget has provided very strong guidance on the environmental requirements for activity in the area. Fisheries will in future go hand in hand with the activity of the petroleum industry in this area. Fisheries are the bearer of the coastal communities that now receive Goliath as their neighbour. There is therefore great expectation that everything that can go wrong will be taken into account. The effect of the oil protection equipment for Goliath shall be at least as good as otherwise on the Norwegian base. It shall be further clarified when examining the application for an emission permit by the SFT in 2011. The need for preparedness has been identified. In the future, the concrete plans to fill the gap between today's situation and the concrete identified need are to be drawn up, not least because of the large number of deliveries of Russian oil that cross our coast every day. That activity is expected to increase. Equipment «wintering» challenges have been identified. Challenges with dark times and low temperatures also require the development of new technologies. The coastal body pointed to a number of challenges and the need for concreteisation in its consultation opinion on the impact assessment. I would like to stress that a broad majority of the committee expects that consultation opinion to be central to the further development of oil protection plans. In particular, I would like to point out a few points: assessment of the need for required navigational manager traffic separation systems security zones and prohibitive zones new navigation installations area needs drag boat preparedness and response time use of loose emergency conditions; When Prestige was due to land outside Spain, 16,000 people were in turn to clean up. There are special challenges to mobilising enough hands if an accident occurs in an area where we have a population of almost 72 000 people spread over an area of size with Denmark. The Goliath Oil Conservation Plans include the use of local fishermen. It is exciting and will contribute to coastal preparedness, but it is still facing technical challenges. The municipalities of Måsøy, Hasvik and Nordkap are the geographical areas that will first be affected by any accident. Therefore, further work on the concreteisation of oil conservation needs to focus on these municipalities. Finally, I would like to take the opportunity to thank the rapporteur and the entire Committee for their constructive work on this matter. I'm proud that most of the parties have managed to get together behind large parts of the setting. I congratulate both the nation and the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3443	Like the previous speakers, I would also like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done. In addition, I would just like to say that I agree with most of what the representative Engstad said here in his and the Labour Party's main posts. This is a very positive and good case. Let me just say this: we are a committee that in the last month has had more cases than we have in the last four years – in one month! When the committee asks questions to the ministry, the response time of the department is not to be considered satisfactory for propulsion. In an extremely hectic final phase of the session it is necessary to wait for answers for up to two weeks not to be considered satisfactory. When you have a flexible enlargement and a flexible committee, which itself has its own desire to get through and deal with matters, you have to ask complicated questions that depend entirely on the response from the ministry, so that you can ensure proper progress. But to the matter. Despite the name, the Goliath field, this is a small oil field on the Norwegian base. But this does not prevent the Goliath field from being an important milestone in Norwegian oil history, as this is the first oil field to open in the Barents Sea. Goliath is an oil field, but it also contains gas deposits. The Barents Sea is now taking a serious step towards becoming an important petroleum region in Norway, and for decades we can become a large energy chamber for the rest of the world, while at the same time contributing to wealth and development throughout the country. On the right, there is concern that the petroleum production on the Norwegian base is declining. High exploration activity and the launch of new fields are central if Norway is to maintain its position as a future, robust energy exporter. The petroleum sector is currently contributing to high employment and not least to technological development. Petroleum revenues contribute to ensuring well-being and economic growth, as well as in the north, now within this region of Finnmark. We have a lot of ongoing activity going on on the Helgeland coast, and I hope and believe that the upcoming uprising will make new decisions about activity in the Lofoten region, the West and the South Troms region. A Norway without oil and gas revenues is too many completely unimaginable, and today's politicians will be measured by how to organise revenue for tomorrow. Therefore, the Right is in favour of petroleum activity both in the Norwegian Sea, on the Helgeland coast and subsequently also outside the South Troms, Lofoten and Vesterålen regions, since these areas are intended to contribute to the future development of Norwegian welfare as the North Sea areas escalate into their production phase. The development of Goliath is important for Norway, because new steps are being taken, new approaches are being taken, new areas are being created, demanding areas are setting new environmental standards and technology challenges. At the same time, there is no doubt that there is a whole part of the country and is going to follow what The Storting is going to adopt tonight. I understand that tomorrow, in Hammerfest, a public party is scheduled in the square to mark today's decision in Stortinget. I think we should all note that the local population greatly appreciates taking these grips from the Storting side and taking these decisions, which have broad support, because they have seen physical and know what kind of ringing effects this new activity produces, what kind of ringing effects the petroleum industry brings into a region with special challenges – not least in Finnmark County. As a result of the Snow White Development, Hammerfest has turned down access to optimism, and Goliath expansion is now turning into a new spark in both the people and the business world throughout the northern part of the country. Prior to the landfill proposal, many have been involved in and affected by the process. Many aspects have been discussed. In this process, several have carried out landings as an important element of the Goliath project, not least it was the red thread in a rather lengthy debate in and around Finnmark County. But when Goliath is now a small, and in many ways defined as a marginally profitable, field, it is important that the authorities facilitate an activity around the field that ensures that the expected ringing effects are achieved locally. For this reason, the Right also supports an expansion solution at sea, which the Government promotes, and which the companies/licenses propose, as this ultimately involves and ensures that the expansion is realised. It is in everyone’s interest to expand the Goliath field as soon as possible, as this ensures stable activity in the region, in a growth sector in the region that is expected to produce significant ring-effects. For the Right, the environmental aspect of a marine development solution is also burdensome, as this solution is considered to be the best solution for future risk assessment. Although the Goliath field is being expanded at sea, there will be major ringing effects on land, both of which have been mentioned by the previous two speakers. The Goliath field can provide total, including direct and indirect employment, 450-600 local and regional jobs during the operational phase. This, together with the Goliath licence adding its operating organisation to Hammerfest, will naturally produce significant ring-effects far beyond the Hammerfest region. The Goliath field will provide the purchase of goods and services for almost DKK 1 billion a year in the exploitation phase, and this will naturally produce significant ring-effects. Therefore, the right considers and hopes that the Goliat field’s purchasing functions will also be as close as possible to the operations office in Hammerfest. I want to express some surprise at the ministry's approach to this issue, which is very central. Therefore, the right is pleased that the Stortinget, including through the Government Parties, makes it very clear that sufficient capacity is expected to be purchased from the operating and regional offices in Hammerfest. Purchasing is a key function. That's where the networks are, that's where the knowledge is, and that's where you get the ring-effects and side-effects that are significant. Of course, I ask the companies, especially Eni and Statoil, not to take this issue lightly. The right wants petroleum activity in the Barents Sea, but this is to be done with the most stringent safety requirements for both the people and the environment. To the right, it seems exciting that the Goliath licence is rethinking regarding oil protection when involving fishermen with both equipment and competence in this work. The Goliath field is relatively close to the country and the regulatory requirements shall be strict. The right considers that the proposition is based on strict and good requirements and therefore considers that development is sound. The Goliath field shall be partially supplied with electricity from land. The two previous speakers have mentioned this. I do not consider it a threat to the development of new technologies, to the development of new infrastructure and networks in Finnmark. It's going to give the whole Finnmark and the whole northern region significant positive spin-offs. This must not be seen as a threat, but perhaps to a greater extent the ability to see the resulting costs, as expenditure on the acquisition of future income, both for Finnmark and for the nation as a whole. The right hopes that the Goliath expansion will begin as soon as possible. The right considers that the Committee's position on Goliath development provides a good basis for the fast-track operation of the licence and takes into account the needs presented from the northern part of the country. The fact that today's crude oil price is rising, and has done so while we've been dealing with this matter, is positive, and I would think that would help to do the field, which is defined as being marginally profitable, even more profitable, so that you get started faster than maybe some fear that a normal could do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3473	The most important blow in this case was before the Christian People's Party, Left and Right gave permission for test drilling. Goliath was awarded in 1997, under the government of Thorbjørn Jagland. But the parties in the Bondevik II government gave permission to drill, which resulted in the discovery of Goliath. The Christian People's Party and the Left need not have followed so closely in the hour until you know that when test drilling results in finding, it has in practice over many years significant extraction permits. On the civil side, the division in the case is total. The left, who in its time blessed the test drilling, has opposed Goliath in opposition. The Christian People's Party says well, while the Right Party and the Advance Party say a roaring yes. In addition, the right hand and the front edge will lubricate the oil industry with ‘a steady flow of new challenging oil and gas projects’. The right-wing approach to the oil industry is reflected in the vote, stressing that ‘it is very important that no new requirements are imposed by the authorities that will increase the costs of the project and thus endanger the entire project’. At the same time, we know that the Norwegian base fields often have a longer life span than that stated in the PUD, which also improves profitability gradually. So there might be reasons to keep a certain distance from what is initially inserted, and have a certain critical sense. The Progress Party writes that ‘the local value creation of the Snow White project was greater than expected and hopes the same can be the case with the Goliath project’. [[...]] I don't know what expectations the Progress Party had for the Snow White Project, but if it's the exceedances the party is aiming for, we're hoping Goliath will come out better. I think we all want local ring-effects, but as both NUPI and Fafo have pointed out in various reports, it has mainly been the established supplier industry in South Norway that has served on oil activities in the north, oil activities in the Barents Sea will not ‘snow Norway on the head’ as oil industry consultants make it. This is probably also why, for example: Rogaland Right has been so clear that they are too oil in the north ‘for Rogaland’s sake. Nevertheless, we are concerned that Goliath should produce local ring effects now that this first comes. We have had a longer dialogue with the Minister of Oil and Energy about this in the process until this decision, and we have had an active major fraction at this point. Finnmark SV is strongly critical of Goliath. In particular, it was reinforced by the timing of the landing option. And it's clear that the commitment to Finnmark is great to get ring-effects locally – it should just be missing. Just like many other places along the coast, especially in North Norway, many people experience disembarkation, they experience a lack of optimism, and that especially young people move, which, of course, makes people there extra worried. I think we should be humiliating for that. So the question is, how are our answers to that? And then we have different answers. The right hand and the propulsion batch show that the offshore CO2 emissions are subject to quota obligations. They write: ‘Reduced emissions from eligible activities will be matched by corresponding increased emissions from other activities’. It's not that dangerous, like that. Nevertheless, in the climate agreement, the Right has helped set a target for national emissions by 2020. Reducing national emissions is important not only for the climate and our credibility in international climate negotiations but also for the ability to tighten up the allowance market in the future. The first tightening shall take place as from 2013, the same year that Goliath is scheduled to enter into operation. It is our responsibility to ensure that Norwegian emissions go down, and they have to go down more than we have so far hoped and believed. We will have increased emissions from the oil industry in the future, and the SFT therefore recommends politicians to take into account «National and international climate commitments in the context of concession rounds». [[...]] Had SV decided on its own, Goliath had not been built up – I say it right out. Lots of people who don't want Goliath are in a raging minority in Stortinget. In other words, we have a job to do to mobilise people into a more responsible and forward-looking climate and industrial policy. That job shall be done by SV. We have worked hard to get more binding formulations on the electrification of Goliath, and are optimistic about the new signals from Statnett. Finnmark has 70 pst. of wind resources in the country, but these have been less developed. Now we think we have the opportunity to speed this up, and at least we're happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3499	The question of the development of Goliath provides important clarifications. The management plan for the Barents Sea and the Climate Change Agreement must and must be an important premise for all decisions affecting these matters. The Goliath field is not a large oil field, it is marginally profitable, and it is not chosen to land, which could have far greater ring-effects in the region. However, development can provide a positive stimulus in the region. The Christian People's Party has called for the establishment of a fund to be considered in such a way that a greater proportion of the revenue from the petroleum industry in the Barents Sea falls to the northern part of the country. It is important to look at the requirements to reconcile the desire to develop the marine environment and climate policy. It was therefore with great anticipation and excitement that we looked forward to the Government's proposal on the Plan for the expansion and operation of the Goliath field. Because it is precisely this that must be the basis, whether the development is in line with climate policy objectives and our objectives for managing this vulnerable area. The proposal states that the field is near the coast and up to an area identified as particularly valuable and vulnerable in the Barents Sea Management Plan. In response to the Council of State Committee on 12 June, Goliath is partly in this field. Against this background, it is disappointing to read the Government’s approach to preparedness and oil activities in this vulnerable area. The Christian People's Party has respect for the process of applying for SFTs under the pollution law, which means that the details of oil protection are not clear until later in the process. But in particular, the government seems to expect the Storting to approve oil expansion in such an area without having to discuss the requirements and standards that need to be set, despite challenges arising from the special location of the Goliath field. The only assurance that the Government can give is that the preparedness shall be ‘at least as good as on the other parts of the Norwegian socket’. When the Government cannot make it clear that higher standards are to be used, it cannot notify specific requirements, nor can it in any way indicate the consequences of oil production in a vulnerable area, yes, then it must be asked what impact the management plan has on this area and what practical consequences it has for the size of some areas to be more vulnerable than others through the treatment of the Barents Sea Management Plan. The Christian People's Party believes that the special location of the Goliath field suggests that the Stortinget should be given the opportunity to assess oil protection before the permit is granted under the pollution law. After hearing Mr. Engstad from the Workers' Party, who points to the hearing opinion of the Coastal Works, and points to the number of hands, I also feel that the Workers' Party agrees with the Christian People's Party's approach to this point. So it is also the case that the Stortinget has not finished dealing with the Goliath case before we vote later today, so I challenge the Council of State to decide whether he supports the Christian People's Party in that the Stortinget should have a case on oil conservation adapted to the specific challenges of the Goliath field before the SFT deals with the matter in accordance with the provisions of the Pollution Act. The climate agreement was an important environmental policy milestone. To cut 15-17 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent up to 2020 is a major challenge and we have a poor time. The Christian People's Party understands that the power situation does not mean full electrification from day one in this project. However, we do not understand that the government chooses to push the assessment of full electrification forward with different reservations that leave great uncertainty as to whether this will be carried out. The Christian People's Party is positive about the expansion of Goliath, but we make demands. We demand better oil protection, and we demand full-scale electrification. Without this being in place, we're going to vote against the Goliath expansion. I address the proposals that the Christian People's Party has made. In order for the Christian People's Party to be involved, we must meet the climate agreement, and we must have a proper treatment of oil protection in such a vulnerable area. It is crucial for the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3528	The representative Line Henriette Holten Heimdal has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3531	Left is for oil and gas activity in the north. We want to open up activity in some areas, but at the same time balance this by saying no to activity in the most vulnerable areas. The left is opposite oil and gas activity in a 50 km track from the Finnmark coast. The Goliath field is 48 km off the coast of Finnmark, i.e. within the 50 km belt off the coast as defined by the Lofoten and Barents Management Plan as being particularly vulnerable and valuable. There has been no extension of the area from an environmental professional point of view. It has been said that it was the previous government that made up for the expansion of Goliath. However, it was under the Workers' Party and Thorbjørn Jagland's government Goliath was awarded in 1997. The Bondevik II government authorised the necessary drilling to determine whether the field was propelled, but it was also clearly underlined that one thus did not take a position on any expansion. The position of the left in this matter is therefore consistent. In the case of SV, it was the only party that promised the voters before the election that they would be against all the oil activity in the north. It stands in stark contrast to the excited connection to the Goliath expansion and further activity in the northern regions as shown by the comments in the setting. It is said that attacks are often the best defense. No comments by Marte Thorkildsen today show that this is not always the case. There is a universe between the position SV promised the voters that they would fight for, and what they now stand for in this matter. Such development and operation plan is designed to contain significant uncertainty about and, where appropriate, when the full electrification of Goliath can be put in place. This is regrettable, because it can help to make it more difficult to achieve national climate targets. The rightholders are required to promote a plan for increased use of force from land to Goliath by autumn 2019 at the latest. However, the government reserves the right to further electrification in relation to both action costs and technical challenges in the case of increased use of power from land. During the consultation of the Energy and Environment Committee on 14 May, Sargas submitted plans for a gas power plant with CO2 treatment from the start-up stage. Sargas claimed that their technology is ripe for use, and that such a gas power plant can be completed before Goliath is completed. A gas power plant based on day one clean-up in connection with the Snow White plant in Hammerfest could facilitate the full electrification of Goliath while also contributing to the possible reduction of CO2 emissions at the Snow White plant. This solution may have an impact on the achievement of the climate objectives that are widely agreed in the Storting. Therefore, the Left believes, and proposes it in the vote, that this should be investigated in an overall context, before the Stortinget takes decisions on the development and operation of the Goliath field. Furthermore, the left has not been calmed in terms of the preparedness for oil spills in connection with the operation of the field. Development at Goliath imposes specific requirements on oil protection. There are special challenges in the area related to low temperatures, dark times, icing and ‘winter iceling’ of equipment. The coastal works point out in their hearing opinion that: ‘However, the impact assessment does not fully outline how to fill the gap between today’s situation and the identified need.’ [[...]] In spite of this, the Government does not give clear signals on specific requirements for oil protection from the location of the field and the specific challenges it poses. The left is concerned about the preparedness associated with a development that is so close to the country in a vulnerable area of high environmental quality. It is a broad majority that today opens up the Goliath expansion. In the continuation, it becomes important for the Left to contribute to the fastest possible electrification of the field. We will also be working on improved oil protection. For the oil companies involved and for the workshop industry, Goliath development involves opportunities and challenges. How they are exploited and solved will be of great importance to the oil and gas activity of the northern regions in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3568	Would the representative like to comment on the Left's proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3571	I take up the Left's proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3577	The representative of Gunnar Kvassheim has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3580	The government’s recently launched platform for work on the Northern Region Strategy was called ‘New North Building Stones’. One of the main objectives of the North Sea Strategy has been to facilitate the sustainable extraction of petroleum resources and related industrial development in the north. Today's approval of the development and operation of the Goliath field shows that we have succeeded in facilitating this. As stated by the majority of the Committee, the project, as the first extension of an oil field in the Barents Sea, is an important step for the North petroleum activity. I therefore think it is very positive that we have been able to present a project that, first of all, will create jobs and increase activity in the north, second, will meet strict environmental requirements for the Barents Sea, and third, will have a very good and balanced power solution. Despite its name, Goliath is no fighter on a Norwegian base with its estimated reserves of 28 million Sm3 oil. It has consequences for the profitability of the project. According to the impact study, marine development was the only viable solution, and – I would like to shoot in – the solution that is best for the environment. In addition to the income that will benefit the entire population of Norway, Goliath can also be a driving force for development in the north. Snow White caused major local ring-effects, and Goliath must contribute to further developing this. Marine, regional and helicopter and supply base operations will employ between 150 and 200 people in the region. Based on experience from the petroleum industry elsewhere in the country, it is common to assume that the activity produces two to three times as much indirect as direct ring-effects. If this is taken into account, Goliath can contribute to more than 500 jobs in the region. That's good, and it's significant. In the dialogue with the authorities, local politicians and industry, measures have been put in place to enhance the oil and gas competence of the Nordic economy, to promote the competitiveness of the Nordic industry, and to increase the interest in the energy sector among young people in the national divide. The lifetime of Goliat is estimated to be 15 years. It gives us time to build up competence and business in the region based on this thinking. The majority of the Committee agrees that exploration and field development in the region is necessary to maintain and increase the petroleum-related activity in the north. It is also necessary to increase the ring-effects. Goliath is located about 50 km at sea and partly within an area identified as particularly valuable and vulnerable. The development and operation of the field will therefore be subject to strict environmental requirements as laid down in the Barents Sea Management Plan. This means, among other things: the field shall meet the objective of zero emissions to the sea during normal operation. In addition, oil protection will reduce the impact of any emergency release. The oil protection system shall be dealt with at a later stage by the State pollution control authority. This will happen when the operator applies for authorisation for operations in 2011 and 2013 respectively. It has been very important for the Government to give high priority to oil protection, especially in the light of specific challenges in the north and the proximity of the field to the coast. We have therefore requested the builder to implement measures to strengthen oil protection in affected municipalities such as Måsøy, Hasvik and Nordkap. With this, we underline the importance of oil protection without prejudging the treatment of SFT. Finally, I am pleased that the members of the Committee support the Government's power-related assessment. I believe that we have reached a balanced solution by the fact that the power of Goliath comes partly from land and partly from the gas turbine on the device. I think it would be desirable for Goliath to be supplied exclusively with power from land. Unfortunately, it is unrealistic when the power situation in the region is as vulnerable as it is. In the long term, however, my ambition is full electrification of the field. It has therefore been important for me to start processes that can enable it. The government has agreed that Goliath will report the power consumption related to full electrification by the end of this year. We are making use of the new changes in the Energy Act to get a good process between the different key actors. We have also made provision for rightholders to submit a plan for increased use of force from land to Goliath as soon as the power situation in the area is strengthened, but no later than 1 January 2019. It is planned that the central network in the Hammerfest area will be strengthened in 2017, subject to the project being subject to a concession treatment under the Energy Act. In view of the situation in the region and the conditions we have set, I therefore believe that the power solution for Goliath per. Today is the best possible solution. Goliath will become an important force for industry and employment in the north. The field meets strict environmental requirements for petroleum activities and has a good and balanced solution. Goliath will therefore be one of our most important new building blocks in the north.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3616	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3619	In the notes, it says, among other things. that the majority – consisting of the governmental parties, the Party of Advances and the Right – ‘reduces a requirement that the readiness for oil protection for Goliath be at least equivalent to that of the other parts of the Norwegian socket’. There are probably some technological challenges in this. The Goliath license is not a very large license, so it will be natural, at least in my opinion, that the state contributes to that technology development. Is this a view of the Council of State sharing? And in what way will the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Government contribute to, and participate in, the technological developments that are necessary, among other things. to obtain oil lances that will function satisfactorily in these areas?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3626	I don't think I want to go any further in concreteising the relationship with oil protection on the basis of the question that the representative raised now, than what is outlined in the proposition. We give the operator a clear responsibility for, among other things. the frames I just referred to in my post. At the same time, we give the SFT responsibility to ensure that the concrete follow-up of this is done within the framework of the proposition, to which I perceive that the Storting today gives its support. I am sure that will be a solid and good oil protection solution for the area, and I assume that Eni and StatoilHydro have added oil protection as part of the planning and part of the cost calculation for the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3631	There is an exceptional reason for giving the Council of State a boost to the power of action in a matter of energy, and we have an exception here. There is no problem for me to compliment you on the handling of this matter by the department. On a question from the Committee on the Purchasing Function, the Ministry unequivocally answers that the procurement function of the Goliath field during the deployment phase and the operational phase will be located at the operator’s headquarters in Stavanger. I'm assuming we're talking both formally and really here. But is it not that the purchasing function is considered to be a key function in order to be able to see at all the maximum local ring-effects in both the operational and development phases?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3638	This is a balance between the competences of the companies in relation to different tasks and functions at different locations. In this way, as the representative here refers to, it was found natural to handle a purchase solution in the way that was outlined. I assume and assume that the ambition that the representative Kristiansen here takes up, and that I share, whether a significant proportion of local purchases are seen and realized in this project, whether parts of it – or more than that – are to be managed from places other than Hammerfest.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3643	Oil protection is important. We're talking about a vulnerable area. The rapporteur in Hasvik said that preparedness for many of the coastal municipalities has been one of the most important taboos in relation to Goliath, not least in the municipality in which she is rapporteur, the municipality of Hasvik, which is the closest neighbour of Goliath. That is what she said at the hearing on this matter. Without prejudice to SFT's assessments, the Christian People's Party has challenged the Council of State through questions and in my intervention in this matter earlier on that we want to get a case to the Stortinget, where we could discuss what requirements it should be to allow oil and gas extraction to operate in such a vulnerable area. Does the Council of State support such a series of thoughts?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3650	I believe that in my proposal to the Stortinget I have proposed and presented ambitious plans and a high level of oil protection. The size is today invited to make a decision related to it, and I perceive that the bulk of the population joins in. Another neat process is that, as usual, we entrust the professional authorities, i.e. the State pollution authorities, with the task of specifying what a very good oil protection solution in this area should in practice involve. I'm absolutely sure that the process we're putting up with now takes care of the good intention that I perceive lies behind the Christian People's Party's commitment to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3657	In its contribution, the Council of State underlined the importance of electrification from land in terms of electricity supply to Goliath. Of course, it is linked to the fact that it is vital if we are to achieve our climate goals. No Marte Thorkildsen from SV said in his post that SV will work «hard to get more binding formulations on electrification». It must be based on a position that SV considers that the wordings contained in the statement are not binding, create uncertainty and are stapled with many reservations. That's a proper assessment of SV. What kind of opportunities does the Council of State see for more obligatory formulations in the field of electrification? So what are the possibilities for SV to achieve when they want to work for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3663	I can assure the representative Kvassheim that I have personally spent considerable time and attention on the issue of electrification of the Goliath project. I've had one ambition, and it's going as far as I think it's possible to go, in having a high share of electricity on this unit. The reality is that there is no more force available per. today. That's why we can't go beyond what we're doing now. Once we have chosen the plan that lies in the proposition, it is because today we do not have the specific power available for 2017, which we want to be available. We're now laying out a plan for the force to be there in 2017. It means a further process in relation to electrification. But as for the actual situation in the area, what we're now doing in the proposition is the longest we can go. It also means a process to get more power to Goliath, and we also see more networks in Finnmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3670	The Committee, as the Council of State knows, has placed great emphasis on the local ring-effects and estimates for 450 to 600 persons employed – directly and indirectly. When we heard the message from representative Thorkildsen of SV, however, the impression was that there would hardly be local employment in the project, that everything would end up in the south. Can the State Council use one minute to confirm how the Ministry of Oil and Energy views the local employment effect? Is it true that when you estimate it to be 450-600, or is it unlikely that it will be achieved?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3677	I mean to remember that I used the number 500 from the pulpit a few minutes ago, and I'm still in for that number. It is based partly on the experience of additional employment related to oil-related activities, the concrete jobs if I get us linked to bases in Hammerfest, in connection with the actual production at sea. So I mean, we have good coatings to use the numbers that we're now using. The future will show if history is like that, but I'm absolutely sure that this project will have significant ring-effects in the area, and that's an important part of the entire project for my part.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3682	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3685	I look at the expansion of the Goliath field in Finnmark as a joyous event for business development, value creation and settlement in the northern regions. Now we can say with certainty that the petroleum age has come seriously to the northern part of the country as well. These are very important building blocks in the north, and here the government has delivered. The Nordic regions are very rich in resources, and Nord Norway needs new activities to ensure housing, business development and jobs. Then it is important that we make use of our rich oil and gas resources, thus increasing the value creation in the region. I am glad that in my time at Stortinget I have also been able to take part in the development of the Snow White field, and that this project has given the positive ringing effects that we are now seeing. This has already meant a lot to value creation and jobs throughout the northern part of the country and the rest of the country. That's how we need more of that. I hope I get the opportunity to join in adopting more such expansions in other parts of the north. I agree with the Committee that long-term sustainability and predictability of the petroleum industry are important. Planning, exploration and preparation for extraction takes time. This is why it is so important that we, from a political point of view, keep progress in clearing new areas that can be made available for exploration. I travel a lot around the northern part of the country, and I see that there is a positive attitude towards increased petroleum activity and thus increased nutrient activity in the north. I also hear people say that they want to see something left in the national part of this activity. This means that the country part not only has to become a commodity supplier with some branches but that it has to establish business activity and management functions that increase employment and residence in the country part. I am aware that this is also a matter of organisation from the national authorities and businesses themselves, but in my opinion this is now being worked well in the region. Nutrient activity and employment take people in the north strongly, and many say it is so strong that if they do not see such ring-effects of petroleum activity in the north, the oil and the gas can lie there. These are perceptions that neither the Stortinget nor the oil companies can ignore. Both companies and politicians are committed to accessing new areas for exploration and extraction in the north. It is also important that the population see positive results for the country in terms of jobs and increased housing, and that those employed in this activity have Norwegian wage and work conditions. I am of those who feel confident that the fishing industry and the petroleum industry can live well in the north as well. I actually think that these two industries will complement each other in a way that is positive for both industries and for society as a whole. Of course, the environmental focus should be strong in both these important industries. I have great faith that the activity that comes into the Goliath field can meet the expectations of local ring effects, and that through this we can put in place further petroleum activity in the north. I am of those who do not believe that landing in this concrete project would have meant a great value creation in the region. On the other hand, I believe that the citizens' demands for ring-effects in the region will make the companies try to be present and make use of local goods and services and all the other positive North Norway can contribute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3713	Let me first take the opportunity on this really historic day to congratulate both Finnmark and Hammerfest on the great event that we are all so lucky to witness and participate in today. I also want to congratulate the licence, Eni and Statoil, with Statoil as an operator, for the job they have done, where it has been shown that coexistence in rich fishing areas between the oil industry and the fishing industry is fully possible. It has been estimated that natural diversity in the area can be achieved in an excellent way. The most exemplary is that they have been able to assume that this will lead to local employment. Like the rapporteur and several other speakers, I would like to point out in particular the way in which the licence has chosen to organise the conclusion of the agreement, and the absence of major framework agreements, which are of particular importance. I also think that Bendiks Arnesen's representative is interested in something important. It's that the county has to prepare more. We know that the three states have gradually begun to do things on the educational side. I think that's very true. But it is not a good idea to build up a training offer in the Nordic states whose government party representatives travel around the north of Norway calling the oil industry a dirty industry – an industry that is not forward-looking. So I would like to encourage the representative of Arnesen to re-evaluate his government partners in the future, because I do not believe that rhetoric from some of his colleagues – on the parliamentary basis of the Government – helps to strengthen the optimism and positiveism of the students who are going to go in the new direction of education in North Norway. Then I was going to congratulate SV on the sense of reason. But after listening to the post of the representative No Marte Thorkildsen could not find a single sentence in the post that indicates why SV today is voting in favour of the proposal. I would have thought that when a party spoke in the Chamber, it was partly to defend the positions you have in the vote – and so far in the voting. I didn't hear anything about that. On the other hand, the representative of Thorkildsen said something that I noticed, namely that because the government of Bondevik had opened up oil exploration in the Barents Sea, there was an automatic one in it, then there was also an oil extraction – that there was no choice. I really appreciate that. For SV has therefore voted in favour of seismic shooting in Nordland VI and in Troms II. Then I expect that the automation is just as clear there, and that you come back to this room in the spring of 2010 and say, "No, unfortunately, we have voted for seismic shooting in Northland VI, and then the natural consequence of that – and the almost inevitable – is that we must also open Northland VII. I hope that we can do that, and that SV can also contribute to it. I look forward to that with great optimism. So the license has a huge responsibility. The Goliath field is not – despite the fact that the name indicates something else – a very large field. Nevertheless, this licence is a flagship in relation to the opening of energy use and petroleum activities throughout Northern Norway — from Northern Norway VI and northwards. It is, of course, an important responsibility for the licence, with the job you do there, when we will later discuss the opening of other sea areas – and, to a large extent, activity in the Barents Sea. So back to the question I asked the Council of State. We're going to have an oil defense on Goliath that's as good as the rest of Norway. There are some challenges that we have not solved today, and that I am absolutely sure that both the licensing partners and the OLF are going to do what they can to solve, before the first oil comes up from Goliath. However, I believe that the State should also be committed to developing these technology tracks. Then I want to put a short visit to the right at the end of my post. It is now very upset that the Goliath license and Eni have chosen to have a small part of their organisation in Stavanger, while many of the big, important jobs remain in Hammerfest. Then I would like to remind Right of the debate we had in this room on Skarv development. The Right said that it was okay that all the jobs were in Stavanger. Now you're dissatisfied with that 20 pst. Staying in Stavanger. That's weird.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3732	When we deal with – and hopefully adopt the Goliath field later today, it is an important step forward in the Barents Sea. We already have the natural gas, and now we'll also be able to use the oil. It creates a whole. We already have the LNG project Snow White in production, and I stress that it is now in full production as far as I can register. It was this hall that adopted it in the spring of 2002. Now we're further anchored to the position of the northern part of the country by decision to expand the Goliath field outside Hammerfest. As others have said, this is the first oil field in the Barents Sea. This expansion is important for Norway and, in particular, stimulates North Norway and Finnmark. I record optimism among people as we've come this far. There's also another important assumption here. If we now see Goliath and the Snow White project in the context, we first get the effect of the gas in the Goliath field by reinjecting it for pressure support. But then it's an effect number. 2, which is immeasurable: if both parties will, this may be a significant contribution of gas to the realisation of train II in the Snow White project. It is gratifying that both the Government and the Committee have given such a broad emphasis to regional ring-effects. Not least, it is clear in the attitude that there must be sound and visible preparedness in the municipalities of Hasvik, Måsøy and Nordkapp. It is also important to stress so clearly that the Goliath Operations Organisation should be added to Hammerfest and that it should be an independent operational organisation with regional functions. I also want to add that as a result of Snow White we saw in a short time that 70 companies established themselves in Hammerfest. Had it not been for Snow White, these companies would never have been established in Hammerfest. Although the landing gear of the float may be built abroad, a project worth less than DKK 30 billion will be irrevocably important for employment in Norway — and not least North Norway — when we now experience an international financial crisis. An important requirement is the fragmentation of the agreements so that the Nordic business community can be entrusted with the task. There should be a good opportunity for the operator to break up the contracts so that the national business community can also compete and get a job. Eni is not in the same way as StatoilHydro already bound up in large, concluded framework agreements, as this is the first project for which they are the operator on a Norwegian base. Nordic business can compete, even if we are relatively young in the light of petroleum. We saw it in connection with the Snow White project, where the operator Statoil calculated that Northern Norwegian business would get about. 600 million. kr during the expansion phase. The final sum was NOK 3–3.5 billion. The Snow White project has provided experience to enterprises from the region. They have acquired skills on which it can clearly be further built. It is of particular importance that predictability be predicted, both through the continuous granting of licences to lighters and that the companies are allowed to extract the deposits when they are found. Someone will probably think it's farfetched, but I think it's the way you don't buy a lot if you are not allowed to build on it. If you get a search license, I believe it is a matter of course that you should also be able to put the field into operation, if it is impulsive. This must, of course, be done within a sound safety and environmental framework. We see that petroleum activities provide skilled jobs and increased living conditions in North Norway and Finnmark. The example of Hammerfest was clear. The city has experienced population growth from the decision to expand in 2002 and until today, at around EUR 15 billion. 500 people. The most important thing is that those people are mainly within the 20–40 age group. Many young people want to come back to the country. This is a good day for Hammerfest, Finnmark, North Norway and the nation of Norway at a time of increasing unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3758	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3761	I'll join the last speaker. This is a good day for Norway. It's a good day for North Norway. I would also like to say that both the committee and the rapporteur have done a good job with this setting. The environment and safety have been incorporated as key arguments in the debate on the development of Goliath. It was partly clarified by the work on the Northern Region Management Plan, a plan of which the Central Party is very proud, and which we believe is one of the most important things that has been done in this period. First of all, there is a broad settlement, and second, there is predictability of the industry for a long time to come. One of the things that is very good with this expansion is the regional and local effects that come as a result of it. It is worth noting that there are competence jobs that come into place in the area. I also think it is worth saying from this pulpit that the Department and the Directorate should focus on this in future allocations, so that the companies that show that they rate and seriously believe in activity and jobs in North Norway are paid for it. The electrification solution has been another central part of the debate. First of all, I think it's important and happy that Finnmark and Troms now become part of the central network, and that we're putting this important part of the infrastructure in place for this part of the country. That's good for them, and that's good for the rest of the country, because it provides opportunities for increased environmentally friendly power deployment in the future. It is also positive that Goliath is electrified. I think it's a very sensible solution that now lies in the proposition, that they say that this is the goal, and they reserve the right to concession. It was supposed to be essentially just missing. However, I would like to say that there is an opening for plant contributions in the proposition. It's an opening that I think the department should take advantage of. There is no reason why only Norwegian online customers have to pay for this in their own pocket, when we are expanding to an actor. In the future, consideration should also be given to the possibility of imposing an obligation on builders also to produce environmentally friendly forces. In that case, a market would have been created, as per. the current date is not available. I want to link two brief comments to the position of the Left in this matter. I think it's on the verge of being irresponsible when you now vote against the expansion of Goliath. You've been able to do that before. I don't think there are any examples of driving such a race in the past. The second concerns electrification. The left should have learned from the previous concession they gave in Trøndelag, that if one imposes electrification without one having in place neither line supply nor production, the part of the country is running out of power. It's at least the rest of us learned. The left has not learned it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3778	Once again, we are in the Barents Sea. Now it's Goliath's oil field, with the company Eni as an operator. There are high expectations for both regional development and new jobs. It is claimed that the Goliath project will provide up to 200 direct jobs. The project is relatively marginal, but it will eventually yield revenues to Finnmark and to the entire Norwegian community. It is important what is now happening in the development of petroleum activity in the north, and we expect ring-effects throughout the country. The 20th concession round was good. Goliath is not expected to have significant negative impacts on nature and the environment. Nevertheless, it is important to exercise caution. Coastal areas are very vulnerable, so all possibilities must be used to secure these areas against possible oil spills. The builders are also aware of this. I have all the respect for the industry that has been in existence for centuries and which is very important for coastal settlement, namely fisheries. But there is not only a negative interaction between fisheries and petroleum. Through the proposal for Goliath and the comments in the setting, there is no doubt that oil protection will be increased in Finnmark. A robust, efficient and well-adapted oil protection system will also provide fishermen with security. We in the north are impatient to move forward with the development of the petroleum industries. We know that from finding and developing it takes at least 15 years. That's why both Snow White and Goliath are very important for the region. If we're going to talk about business all over North Norway, we have to go all the way down to Helgeland in the south to find the next big activity. But what about the large sea areas between Finnmark and Helgeland? The tension is great until 2010, as the great amount of knowledge that is now going on in Northland VII and Troms II is going to give us some answers. In St.meld. No 37 for 2008-2009 on the Norwegian Sea, which we will be considering later this evening, it is said: ‘In the context of the update of the Barents Sea and offshore management plan outside the Lofoten in 2010, the Government will also assess whether an opening process, including the impact assessment on petroleum activities in these areas, is to be initiated.’;» Well written!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3802	The Christian People's Party is concerned with the major ring-effects that the Goliath project will have for Northern Norse industry. The project will create jobs and optimism in a part of the country that has unfortunately been in a period of dislocation and depressing prospects for the future. The representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal said in his post that the Christian People's Party is initially to go for Goliath. But we have a great deal of concern, and that is the concern that we have attached to two proposals that we are calling for, in particular, the parties to the government. In particular, proposal No: 2, which has to do with oil protection. The Christian People's Party is asking that we get a message to the Stortinge about how to deal with oil protection on the first development project in the Barents Sea, before a final decision is taken. And I have to say that after listening to the contributions of the representatives of Ann-Kristin Engstad from the Workers' Party and Inga Marte Thorkildsen from SV, I do not understand that the Christian People's Party can stand alone asking that Stortinget get a case from the Government on which oil protection will be based in the development of Goliath. The result of the vote will help to determine how the Christian People's Party finally puts itself in this position. In particular, I challenge the Minister to respond to whether he can see that one will have such a case submitted to Stortinget – before one gives the final permission to go ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3812	I agree with those who say that this is a very good day for North Norway. And I have – like most people who have spoken from this pulpit – expectations of the economic and employment effects of this expansion. But it may turn out to be a black day for Norwegian seafarers, unless we are now leading were. By that I mean to say that I now assume that we ensure that the bowloaders to serve Goliath are registered in Norway, and that the crews on board are guaranteed Norwegian pay and employment conditions. When I underline this, it's because this isn't obvious. In the North Sea we have seen that bow-loaders are being flagged, registered under flags of convenience and staffed with underpaid Filipino crews. The companies that do this say it's to position themselves for new tasks, including: on Goliath. That's why Goliath becomes a test piece in that way. And I am very surprised that the State-owned StatoilHydro not only accepts that the shipping companies flag out – and contributes to social dumping on the base – but also encourages it in its constant pursuit of cost cuts. I think this policy is rather unwise, because it will be very difficult to accept further oil extraction along our base if we now experience that we are creating jobs for underpaid Filipino or Asian crews. This is actually about thousands of jobs for Norwegian seafarers, because if this dam is running out, other shipping companies will follow. So we're going to have a significant flagging off of Norwegian ships working on Norwegian pedestals, and we're going to have a significant introduction of crews from countries with much lower wages than what we're used to here in the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3821	I have not intended to go along with the debate, but I was allowed by the case rapporteur to say that he was somewhat sorry that there was no room for shipping policy in the treatment of Goliath – it was the coin in the previous speaker. It has been interesting to follow the debate, especially since the undersigned has a past in the Energy and Environment Committee for eight years before this period. I remember when we treated the Snow White extension in the previous period. What was a little interesting then was to see which parts were against the Snow White expansion. It was SV – they were actually so much against that some of the representatives were stuck up there – it was the Center Party, and it was half the Workers' Party. The left and Christian party of the people, for whom there was a government at that time. Then, obviously, something happens from leaving the Storting until you get into the government offices – and vice versa. It would have been really pretty interesting to figure out what's happening on that path. I hope that the Advance Party will have the opportunity to reap those experiences after the next election. At least I hope that we don't angle as much as the other games I've just mentioned. I am not so concerned that this should go beyond the Norwegian fishing industry. Looking at the fishing industry around Norway where oil has been used, it has been very successful. I am not so concerned about the future as regards the further development of Norwegian oil companies in Lofoten and Vesterålen. I think having an SV in government is a good guarantee that you get speed in these areas. Should it be the case that the SV falls out of the Government for various reasons, I am sure that the opposition parties that are currently opposed to oil and gas activity in the Lofoten and the Vestral will change their mind if they enter the government offices. It was quite right, as the rapporteur said, that it is rare to have a case of this kind that is so widely politically anchored in the Stortinget. It's reassuring. So this is a good day for Norway, it's a good day for North Norway, and it's a good day for Finnmark, because this is value creation. What might worry me is that there are people who are at risk of double standards. But what's worse, not having morals or having double morals, I don't know.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3832	The President won't answer that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3835	Neither shall I take a position on morality or double morality. I had hoped that the minister would sign up before I took a brief comment, just to justify his own vote. After an overall assessment of what's in the proposition, based on the great ringing effects this has on North Norway, and on the assumption that Goliath is the beginning of something to continue, I have made a decision that I will vote for Goliath today. So Line Henriette Holten Heimdal has drawn after me, and will draw the conclusions of the party in total.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3845	The opinion states from the majority of the Committee that this is a ‘important milestone for the development of the petroleum industry in the northern regions’. They also quote from the PUD, which says: ‘To maintain and increase the petroleum-related activity in the north, it is dependent on both search activity and field development in the region.’» The SV's Environmental Policy Speeches are in the post against, in the setting for, in the vote for. And it's probably the vote that counts for us who are big ones – as long as we have seats here. The rapporteur even said that this is a politically robust project, since it is a majority that embraces from the Progress Party to SV, and since SV has moved in the right direction in this matter. I would rather say that SV only confirms the position they laid down in the 2009 budget, where they also celebrate oil activity in the north. From the Christian People's Party we are consistent. We said in 2003 that it is today, when the PUD is being treated in Stortinget, that we must decide our relationship with Goliath. Let me quote from the oil message, which came in 2003: ‘It is underlined that this Decision does not constitute a definitive yes to the development of the Goliath field if this would become the case. This must be considered when the rightholders promote their development plan. It will then be for the companies to demonstrate that any expansion takes sufficient account of the environment and the particularly valuable area.» We repeated this in the setting of the management plan for the same area. It is in the interests of the environment and that these are expansions in particularly valuable areas that the Christian People's Party has taken its position. We believe that the PUD is not good enough in terms of oil protection, and is not clear enough in terms of when we can get a whole electricization. On this basis, we have requested that the matter be reinforced in this area by decision in this Chamber. That's what I call being consistent – considering what we said in 2003 in government, and what we say today in the main hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3862	The representative Korsberg withdrew the line to Snow White and tried to draw up a historical perspective in view of the parties' voting. To complement that production, I would like to draw attention to the fact that, when it came to Snow White, the realities were decided before the Bondevik II government joined. Therefore, it was established in the Sem-Declaration that the parties were based on the fact that this field could be expanded. One of the reasons one went in for it then was that it was a gas field and that it was not about oil extraction. Goliath is an oil field and is therefore in a position other than the Snow White field, which also had a history where the reality was that the Workers' Party led to tailor a tax regime that made that expansion possible. That clarification was made before the Bondevik II Government took over. Ola Borten Moe has addressed the question related to electrification, and says that the Left adds up to a requirement for full electrification without power being available. That's wrong. What we're saying is: it should be investigated whether it is possible to supply Goliath with electricity from a gas power plant in Finnmark according to the model that Sargas has outlined. We believe that Stortinget should have had that on the table before someone took a position on this. It's not right that we want to send the area into the situation that Borten Moe described.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3871	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 4019]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3888	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3897	Let me begin by commending the rapporteurs here for their strong commitment to these environmental issues. But I think here we have to keep the string and the bar separately, to say it like this. It is also good that there is interest and commitment around this matter and overall thinking. We must have that around a state company, or a company in which the state has a large holding. Especially in this company, the State has a very large holding, and therefore the State is to be regarded as a dominant owner. But what is a bit of a shame is that what is initially a healthy interest in the company, in this case, in my view, has been channelled out in a somewhat misunderstood way. Being the dominant owner of a large company with thousands of employees is a big responsibility. This company also manages large, almost unfathomable, values. Then to seek to direct this company according to the almost daily form and approach method, is not only populist, but directed irresponsiblely, in my opinion. The way in which the State should act as owner has been the subject of a broad discussion and good proceedings in this Chamber just two years ago, in connection with the announcement of ownership – a matter which was largely universally universally agreed here on the Stortinget and where the Christian People's Party's representative, Sørfonn, was the case rapporteur in an exemplary way. The exposure of the country shall be channelled primarily through those on the board of directors on behalf of the country. In addition, the State has annual contact meetings with the management of this company. One shall also bear in mind that the company is subject to the Share Act, with the obligations which it has just given rise to. This law applies to all shareholders, including the state. If one first starts by making exceptions to our state governance principle every time we think there are so-called special good reasons for it, I believe that we are on a dangerous path that it is difficult to get away from. The state must be a good and predictable owner, that's the only way to secure and further develop the great values that lie in our state-owned company in a longer perspective. That's the least we owe the Norwegian people when we manage these great values on behalf of all of us. For this reason, the Labour Party and I are strongly opposed to this presented and believe that this document must be rejected, as is also done by a solid majority in the vote. I would like to make it clear that this is not about the matter in itself, but more about whether you are for or against oil sales, which is a project we have not taken a decision on. The fact that the proposers come drawing with this draft representative the day before the general meeting says more than a thousand words. This is about the basic principle of how we act as owners of these companies. In this context, responsible governance must take precedence over short-term populism, and our administrative responsibility on behalf of the Norwegian people must be the guiding principle in this matter. For this reason, I shall vote today to reject Document No presented. The 8th proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3906	The Progress Party does not support the proposals of the Christian People's Party, for the simple reason that in a democratic country we should avoid political governance of the priorities of listed companies. It's going to be wrong. If we want to achieve something politically, we need to use the general framework conditions and the law so that one stimulates or prohibits the industries from doing so in general, and does not try to override it by buying shares at general meetings. I would remind you that Canada is a sovereign country, a democratic country with a popular assembly. It is they who decide what should be law or not law in their country. It really seems quite arrogant when one in the Norwegian political debate comes from a rich, and energy-rich, country, and tells Canada that they will not be allowed to use their energy resources. In particular, it becomes a little bit hypocritical when we know that we ourselves are extracting coal from Svalbard, which has a much lower CO2 account than the oil sand project in Canada. I have not heard a single member of the SV or the Christian People's Party who has ordered us to close the mines in Norway. It's unfortunately the way the political debate is, one hangs around in symbolic matters and creates a lot of control in the media. However, I will not point to the Christian People's Party in this context, because the scapegoat sits with the SV who has somehow led the Christian People's Party to believe that it was actually possible to achieve something here. It was Environment Minister Erik Solheim who first began to discuss this in the political debate in Norway. Erik Solheim, as in the media, and not least at SV's national meeting, went out and said that now we have to take political direction and stop this. Government Party member Tore Nordtun of the Workers' Party should not be surprised that some opposition parties are jumping on when government representatives actually say they want something. It says a little more about SV and environmental policy, which has become largely rhetorical and terribly low policy. There will be a fight against oil sand before the General Assembly, even after the General Assembly, but not at the General Assembly. Then I think SV in that case should have been too good to express anything at all, when they are not going to follow it up. It's going to be a little bit like what we experienced in the Goliath case, where one in the position of the current year's budget says it's important to maintain the search activities. One says in Goliath's attitude that Goliath expansion is important. So one doesn't take this into account in government, as they have done in matters in which they think it's important to extend the party position. But when you get in the media, it's a completely different thing. When one comes into debates to meet the voters, one comes with a completely different message than what one does to get a majority on the Stortinget. It's typical SV to behave like this in this context. What is not related is when SV is unable to implement a comprehensive policy that demonstrates how they believe that Canada might meet its energy needs when they are not able to use the resources they have. When they do not realize that the International Energy Agency shows that even within a two-degree scenario, the consumption of gas will increase in the world, the consumption of oil will be fairly stable, and the consumption of coal will be reduced. If we stop some countries from extracting oil sands, it can be a well-intentioned environmental measure, in isolation, in relation to continuing the production of oil and gas on a Norwegian base. But oil and gas on Norwegian soil cannot meet the world's energy needs alone, nor can renewable energy, even if we wish. Then we know that if one stops oil sand activities, it becomes more coal with a lower CO2 account. There has to be an inclusion in this debate. And once again: SV, and in this context also the Christian People's Party, would have credibility with such a proposal and such rhetoric, if they had first gone in to stop Norwegian coal production. Then a had a consistent policy. It's only been two days since SV stood on this pulpit and argued for exactly the opposite, namely still coal drift on Svalbard. In this context, I challenge the Minister of Energy to be involved and contribute to a more fact-based debate, so that the debate in the future – from a climate perspective – will not be that oil sands abroad are bad things, while coal in Norway is quite fine, but is able to quantify what is carbon accounting in the various energy technologies. We need a debate and a clarity about what CO2 accounting is if you use electricity in an electric car, which will always be counted as zero grams of emissions, while if you use electricity for house heating, it's 400 grams of CO2 for every kWh we use. There's some kind of accounting that allows you to argue in and out exactly what you want, depending on whether you think it's okay with power, or not with power, and deal with oil, or not with oil. We have to clear up the facts on the table, which means we have a consistent discussion about what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3938	There was an overall opposition that wanted this matter to be dealt with quickly, that one did not go the way about the committee, but took it directly into the Storting, because the proposal that was wanted to be dealt with by the Christian People's Party was of such a nature that it was urgent to have a decision – if you agreed to it – in advance of the general assembly. I think it was arrogant of the majority not to go in for that. The fact that this matter has now been brought through the Committee is a form of training of the case, and I have no problem saying that, although the Right does not support the proposal of the minority. Let me very clearly say that Right wants a limited state ownership, a state ownership that is professional, a predictable state ownership, and a state ownership that leaves the business considerations to the board. That's also the clear reason why the Right says no to this kind of proposal. We can't see that Stortinget through Document No. The 8 proposal is part of the management of listed companies, rather than other large state-owned companies. Let me also say that greenhouse gas emissions need to decrease globally and the rate of decline needs to be significant. There is an overall increase in demand for a significant amount of renewable energy, but it is equally full that if the two-degree target is taken into account, the total use of petroleum products will increase. Nor do I have any problems referring to Canada, which has one of the most stable democratic regimes, having full rights over its natural resources given by the Canadian Parliament, and not the Norwegian. At the same time, oil sand is a product that unfortunately has major environmental consequences. It's a fact that about three liters of water are needed to produce one litre of crude oil from oil sand, it's a significant amount of energy that goes into the production of oil sand, and with today's technology, unfortunately, you see a lot of opencasts, although the technology that StatoilHydro wants to use in Canada is not going to take advantage of it. That makes me personally think oil sand is a bit of a fuss with today's technology. From an environmental point of view, it is regrettable that StatoilHydro wants to spend 12 billion kroner on that particular project, but at the same time I have no problem with StatoilHydro, as a sovereign company responsible for earnings, making the considerations they think are necessary to ensure the company's further earnings and thus also form the basis for future Norwegian well-being. So I would say that the considerations that Ketil Solvik-Olsen takes up in his post related to coal power on Svalbard are very relevant. How some, both from the position and from the opposition, can refer to this project and at the same time not attract Norwegian projects are on the edge of the hypocrisy. Nevertheless, I think that the person who really deserves the name hypocritically is Councillor Erik Solheim. He should have been here during the debate on this matter. He was very active in advance of the handling of this matter, and not least the fact that the Council of State so emphatically wants to make its position known, so one should also believe the Government's position, that this project does not deserve to be carried out, and that he almost wants to go very far in instructing private shareholders to vote against, when he, as the Council of State, sits in silence when the Council of State's colleague, oil and energy minister, and more are involved in the implementation of the project, I think that I am a double standard which does not serve Norwegian greatness or democratic Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3955	The President would point out that ‘hypocritical’ as the term ‘colleagues’, ‘political counter’ or ‘co-debate’ is not a parliamentary term.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e3958	The Christian People's Party promoted this proposal two days before the General Assembly – not one day before. Therefore, this proposal cannot be seen as anything but a demonstration proposal, and I think it is a pity. Had the Christian People's Party really wanted to get through, another procedure would have been used. It cannot come as a surprise to the Christian People's Party that there is no majority in today's magnificence to do what the party here is proposing. That's the first to complain, because the oil bombing is very serious. I would therefore like to say loud and clear: SV will do everything we can to change Norwegian ownership policy at this point. We can't be aware that a company of which the Norwegian people are the majority-owned goes as completely as they have done here. I'll argue more about why. But first let me conclude that SV is going to work because this matter gets hot in the election campaign. It can't be very surprising that a government council that speaks out at a party's national meeting is offensive to the party's own policy and is mobilizing precisely in view of the election campaign. We take note that the majority is the same as it is in today's big world, but soon there are elections, and then we want to mobilize the people to choose something else. Then, as in fact we agree with each other here today, to need each other's support. We should all reflect on that, if it's the case that matters, and it should. Many of us have received the book «Tar Sands» from 2008, by the renowned writer Andrew Nikiforuk. There we read the following: Each barrel of tar oil, the bitumen, produces three times as much climate emissions as a barrel of conventional oil. Tar sand is the world's most water-intensive oil product. Each barrel requires consumption of three barrels of fresh water from the Athabasca River. The tar sand industry uses as much water every year as a city with two million inhabitants. To extract the tar oil, the industry burns enough fossil gas to warm up four million homes. The Alberta tar sand project will destroy or industrialise a Florida size forest, destroy biodiversity and the hydrology of the region forever. A report from WWF in the United Kingdom last year concluded that the exploitable potential for oil from tar sands and oil shale in North America will generate emissions of 980 billion tonnes of CO2. In other words, it's almost impossible to reach the two-degree goal. That the Party of Advancement Ketil Solvik-Olsen does not care, is no surprise. Climate and Energy Advisor Arild Skedsmo writes on the World Nature Fund Norway's websites: ‘While the world’s leaders are negotiating on how to limit the use of fossil energy and promote renewable alternatives, industry is now fully expanding its fossil age. It is unfortunate, but understandable that oil and gas companies continue the activity they have historical competence in, but it is quite different that companies are now making a massive effort to develop new technologies to extract energy resources such as oil sands and oil shales, which the earth cannot bear to use." According to the fund, the tar sand project will lock us to the fossil age for 100 years in overtime. CO2 management is excluded because it is technically impossible. In addition, the tar oil will mainly be used to supply the US transport market, which is now in the midst of an important period of change. You have to go from petrol-extinguishing cars to energy-efficient cars, partly or completely powered by electricity. Perhaps the oil sand project will delay such a necessary transition. That would be bad in that case, because road traffic emissions cause a large part of the climate problem most of us, after all, worry about, with the exception of Ketil Solvik-Olsen and some of his like. The World Natural Fund also claims that this project has led to the largest natural intervention that Norway has ever been part of indirectly through StatoilHydro. We're talking about degradation or destruction of an area similar to South Norway. If this had been in the Amazon, we would have spent billions preserving the area, claims the Nature Fund. We are talking about wilderness, about untouched nature worth taking care of. The problem is that Canada itself is not of that opinion. We must therefore actively influence Canada, press for a new climate agreement. It would have been a powerful signal if StatoilHydro had pulled out of the tar sand project. It had been noticed. Our government has added to a more active and more extensive state ownership than previous governments. It therefore gives an additional bismach that Statoil's plans to invest in tar sands in Canada became known only days after the Stortinget decided that: «State companies shall be foremost in the field of environmental measures within their industry». The sentence is derived from the Regeninga own ownership message. It is difficult to see that the investments in tar sands are in line with this, and therefore we need to put in place the necessary tools to manage StatoilHydro in line with the intentions. Sigvald Uppøen Hansen had here taken over the president's seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4012	From the very beginning, the development of Norwegian oil activities has taken place in a combination of industrial and commercial strategies on the one hand, and active policies through authority-based requirements on the other. This has provided high quality and high environmental standards on an international scale. StatoilHydro is naturally quite central in this picture. We have been proud of this, and this picture has profiled Norwegian oil industry and Norwegian industry worldwide. Our leading oil company, StatoilHydro, purchased oil sand production in Canada in 2007. Thus, we are facing the paradoxical situation that StatoilHydro now targets oil production through one of the most emission intensive forms of oil production. It is easy to understand Erik Solheim's statement to SV's national meeting where he pronounced – and I saw him in the hall now: ‘It is not acceptable for an almost state-owned company to see its future in oil sands in Canada.’ [[...]] It's worse to understand that the government he's in stands for a completely different vision. The majority of the Committee refers to the principles of state ownership to which the Stortinget agreed in the context of the Storing Communication An active and long-term ownership. The Christian People's Party is behind these principles and comments here. Normally, the answer to the question of State intervention in state-owned companies is that the board is responsible for the operation of the companies, while the state exercises its ownership through the general meeting. But what we are now discussing is an overall strategic investment that has a large negative environmental impact and that was up for treatment at the General Assembly. Nevertheless, the Government does not want to use the power of ownership. It is difficult to understand that this is in line with the ownership message, including its clear leadership in the importance of corporate social responsibility and environmental considerations in the exercise of state ownership. This is not a double standard in relation to coal mining at Svalbard, because this is a new strategic area in which StatoilHydro entered in 2007. From the day StatoilHydro announced that they were entering this area, the Christian People's Party has had this commitment. We've taken the matter up with the state councils, both here in the hall and in other ways, so this has nothing to do with populism. In this particular case, the situation is that the private owners disagree with the State whether it is right for StatoilHydro to engage further in the highly polluting oil sand project. It also appeared in the vote at the general meeting, where several private, commercial owners voted in favour of the proposal to withdraw, and even more opted for abstinence. Why should the State that owns be more reserved than private owners to take a stand on what is a sustainable strategy for the company? Should the state that owns be more reserved than private owners to take a stand for what is good social responsibility? StatoilHydro's investments have triggered a public debate and have gained a lot of criticism, not least from the Government itself. It may not be easier for both trade unions, environmental organisations and other bodies — who have strong views on professional rights, environmental considerations or other ethical issues in individual projects in large companies — to meet understanding among private owners than with the state. It can't be this government put up in the ownership message, can it? But that's what seems to be the consequence of the majority's position on this matter. Here we have other private owners who want to take greater environmental interest, and the only message of the majority is that we will not take this in. There is increasing reason to ask what role the Minister for the Environment really has in this government. I must also say that there is increasing reason to ask what role SV has in this government – with Goliath a few minutes ago and oil sand in this debate. They're both against each other. They vote for it, and I don't understand it's going to last. I take this up with the proposal that the Left and Christian People's Party is behind in this setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4043	The representative Line Henriette Holten Hemdal has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4046	Let me start here: in the Center Party we are followers of a strong public ownership, we are followers of an active ownership, and we are followers of a ownership that is useful in promoting the care of the environment and climate, not vice versa. The letter from the Ministry of Oil and Energy to the Committee refers to the ownership notification. It says the following: «The Government has in St.meld. No 13 An active and long-term ownership, expressed as a desire for state-owned companies to be at the forefront of environmental measures within their industry.» [[2006-2007]] And the Government's annual Owners' Policy Document states the following: ‘... work on environmental issues in individual companies is expected to be carried out systematically and to cover the whole value chain of the business’.» It may be that the oil sand investment that StatoilHydro now has is a symptom that our ownership needs to become clearer, even when it comes to what kind of activity we want. It is then the right channel to address it when revising the exercise of state ownership, rather than through a single representative proposal in Stortinget. If we go into such a practice, we're actually going to undermine public ownership. A robust public ownership must be more conservative than that. It doesn't mean one is not allowed to control. We in the Center Party are very little enthusiastic about the oil sand activity of StatoilHydro. It's an impeccable activity, it's not an environmental promoter, and this type of activity doesn't meet the environmental challenges that the world is facing. But what are our objectives and what are our requirements, for example. environment when it concerns ownership, we will highlight at crossroads in this room when we discuss our collective public and state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4065	The left has wondered about StatoilHydro's oil sand exposure in Canada. It's a bad environmental project that the company shouldn't be in. It is not possible to interfere with Canadian policies and resource management. That is a view of how an oil company with a strong state ownership should prioritise. It is not difficult to agree with the point I have now made, it seems. To the VG, Marianne Marthinen from the Workers' Party said that Statoil should not be involved in this project. And she adds that it's good if one joins the suggestion of withdrawing. That concluded Marianne Marthinsen to VG. It's a different conclusion than her party trap Tore Nordtun drew today, and it's going to be exciting to see if Marianne Marthinsen follows the view that she can measure towards the VG. Erik Solheim, our Environment Minister, has also been one of those who have said that this is a bad environmental project. Erik Solheim has actually acted as a political hare in this matter. He's the one who pulled up the field more than anyone else. He's the one who's set the speed, and he's the one who's set the direction, and then he jumps out of the field one round before the goal. Tore Nordtun says to the VG that he wonders about this commitment, i.e. Tore Nordtun says more correctly that StatoilHydros «satzing on oil sanders». It suggests that in this room there is a majority that is curious and sceptical about this commitment. With regard to the view of using ownership, it has been possible to endorse the thinking behind the Christian People's Party and the Left's proposal. Erik Solheim was very clear at the national meeting in SV. Here both the state could and should govern and inform StatoilHydro that this commitment should be terminated. Afterwards, we have learned that this statement was intended only for internal use. It had no validity beyond the SV National Assembly Hall. The proposal made by the Christian People's Party and the Left has a clear message, and it is intelligently designed, based on respect for the division of labour that exists between the owner and governing bodies. After the general meeting in StatoilHydro, where the proposal to liquidate the oil sand exposure was voted down, SV continued its double communication. The title of the daily newspaper was then ‘SV rebellion against oil sand decisions’. According to Dagbladet, No Marte Thorkildsen write to the Council of State and demand an answer, demand an explanation, on how it relates that the State did not vote against the oil sand project at the General Assembly. I look forward to the statements of the Council of State, and to getting insight into the answers he has given to the insurgents in SV.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4085	I am pleased that the majority in the Committee subscribes to my view on this matter. It is fully in line with the principles of ownership management set out in the 2006 biggest ownership message. A broad majority of the Stortinget stood behind this message, where it is among other things. states that the business management of the company and its responsibility lie with the management. I'm surprised that the minority in the committee seems to want to deviate from these principles in this case. So the minority in the attitude indicates that the company should also have an involvement with other energy carriers. I agree. It is a field of activity for StatoilHydro, and at the latest underlined at the general meeting of the company on 19 May this year. The statutes were amended to include activities in other forms of energy. It means increasing investment in renewable energy. The minority also refers to the global environmental challenges we face. There are major challenges for which I fully share the concerns. But at the same time, it is obvious that these kinds of questions need to be solved in a completely different way, and in a much broader way, than what is proposed in this case. On the part of the Government, we have a broad commitment to climate issues. It is laid down in the climate agreement in Stortinget, a settlement in which the Government works on the basis. In the case of StatoilHydro's involvement in Canada, there is an illustration that the State must be able to handle multiple roles at the same time. We have to be able to be a long-term and predictable owner on the one hand, while working actively to solve the climate challenges we face on the other. The proposals of the minority will help to weaken the credibility of state ownership. This will lead to a mix-up of these roles. It's a significant challenge. Such a combination is not compatible with the share law or with the ownership principles of the State.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4100	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4103	In connection with St.meld. No 13 for 2006-2007, An active and long-term ownership, Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn from the Christian People's Party was rapporteur for the case. He said the following: ‘A controller is not directly controlled by a political signal to the enterprises, but a controller via the representatives of the board of directors has opted for the governing bodies and who exercises authority through the regulatory measures and framework conditions given. That's why we make this clear. In fact, it is also stated in the government's message, and I assume that the representative of the government party agrees with what it says, that regulatory action is more important as a governance document than a political governance that resembles a completely different regime.' Is the opinion of the representative Sørfonn related to the ownership exercise of the State a good wording?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4113	I think I can answer it very briefly and precisely. The answer to that is yes, it is a precise description of also what I deepened in my post just now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4118	It was referred through the media and also from a previous speaker that the representative Inga Marte Thorkildsen has written letters to the Council of State. What was the Council's response to that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4123	I, the undersigned and the representative of Thorkildsen have had conversations, constructive discussions, on these issues. Besides that, I don't need to comment on the contents of them from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4128	I think the Council of State has been reasonably clear, and that's good. But I would like to refer you a little bit to Mr. Thorkildsen's posts, where one got the impression that the reason why at least the Swedish government parties voted against was that the proposal came so late, just two days before the general meeting, and therefore it had to be seen as a marking proposal and not as a real proposal. That would indicate that if the proposal had been promoted earlier, one would have dealt with it with it with a different result. Would the Council of State in any case say that if this proposal had been promoted one month earlier, two months earlier, would it make a difference? I suppose the Council of State would say that the policy of the Government had been firm in any case, and that it has nothing to say about the moment at which the proposal was promoted. What does the Council of State think of that? Does the time have anything to say?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4135	I think I can express myself this way: the fact that the proposal was promoted in Stortinget shows that the proposal cannot be adopted. By doing so, I believe that the roles that I am engaged in, including in my post, and the need we have for cleanliness in relation to governance, are such that it is not possible to operate a large company based on governance via proposals in Stortinget. It will over time lead to a development that no one has earned, and at least those of us who are occupied by a state ownership.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4140	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4145	As I said in my previous post, it is normal to use the General Assembly in such matters as we are discussing today. Let me get the quotes from the ownership message: «Within the general and special frameworks laid down by the Storting for its activities, the State which owns its interests through the general meeting/entrepreneurship meeting». And on the other hand, ‘The provision of Section 5-1 of the Shares Act means that the Council of State through the general meeting is in a relationship with the Board of Directors of public limited-liability companies and may give instructions that the Board is obliged to comply with.’ And let me quote from the setting: «The Committee stresses that the State that owns must set performance targets for the companies on long-term market returns in the companies in which the State has primarily commercial objectives. This does not prevent the State that owns at the same time from clarifying the expectations that the company has a strong focus on how to care for others. environment, migration, disability, ethics, and research and development may monitor the design and follow-up of business strategies.»; That is what the Committee said. This gave the Storting its approval. It was on this basis that we asked the Government to use the opportunity at the General Assembly to follow the will of the Storting. If we take this specific matter, the representative from the Right has said that oil spills are swinery, the representative from SV has said that this is an important election matter. SV will work because StatoilHydro is withdrawing from this activity. The centre party has said the same thing. The employee party representatives have said that they have not taken a decision on the matter. Then it is really only the Advance Party of the Red-Green Government that has the support of in this specific matter. Yes, yes – maybe we see a new government link between some parties, which some of us hope will not govern together in relation to this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4166	It was the representative of Thorkildsen who made me take the floor. I hope Thorkildsen will try to clarify a little bit about his policy and get a whole set of policies that have now been pursued. In Thorkildsen's contributions, it became clear that SV is in favour of the proposals of the Christian People's Party. We know from two days ago that SV votes for further coal operations in Norway. But it's the Progress Party that gets the hang of what StatoilHydro is doing now, and we are the ones who are going to bear all the climate burdens that StatoilHydro imposes on the world. So SV does not take any responsibility for the decisions they themselves are taking, and for the government they are in. So this criticism of the Progress Party comes from SV, who today is voting to expand Goliath, who in the current year's budget setting, spoke warmly about the importance of developing the Norwegian oil and gas industry, and not least to maintain and maintain exploration activities. I can't get this to rhyme when the representative Thorkildsen with a relatively strong voice, probably in frustration over his own policy, the jaws of the Progress Party. I have also noticed that the Council of State says that it is not through proposals from the Stortinget to conduct the companies, while the main argument for not supporting the proposal was that it was promoted too late. This only shows that no matter what SV says, the proposal would not be supported by the government that SV supports. In addition, the representative Thorkildsen and SV, if they actually believed what they believe, but they cannot support it because the proposal was promoted so late, could even have promoted it if they thought it was important – if they actually as a party meant anything to implement it. Then I would just like to remind the representative of Thorkildsen that Canada has Kyoto obligations in terms of climate and CO2 emissions. Increases in CO2 emissions due to energy projects they themselves undertake are Canada's concern. They have a framework for what they can release, and the industrial projects they set up will have to go under those frameworks. Ergo: If the SV itself believes in the Kyoto agreement that they defend, it will in itself limit global CO2 emissions not to increase as a result. Finally, I also ask the representative, Thorkildsen, to start pointing to all these renewable energy projects that you are talking about instead. One knows that in four years there has been no increase in small power generation, probably due to the SV's policy in the Soria Moria Declaration. One does not have a single windmill to refer to that has been realised in Norway as a result of red-green policies. What happened yesterday at Enova, where one cancels the grant of support on the same day as a new administrator, without any notice, just shows why one does not get results. I don't expect the representative Thorkildsen to take the floor to explain, but I think it's worth noting anyway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4193	No more people have asked for the floor in case No. 19th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 4019]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4213	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 4020]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4235	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 4020]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4257	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 4020]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4276	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 4020]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4298	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 4020]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4320	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 4020]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4339	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It is seen as a confirmation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4350	The starting point for this management plan is the need to facilitate the sustainable development of key industries such as fisheries, petroleum, shipping, travel and energy activities, while at the same time ensuring the safety of the natural values of the marine environment. It's in many ways the long lines of the administration that are drawn up in the plan. The plan shall be dynamic and regularly updated, no later than 2014, and complete revision shall be carried out in 2025. The starting point is very good. The state of the environment in the Norwegian Sea is good. Yes, it is that the Norwegian Sea is one of the cleanest sea areas in the world and relatively unaffected by direct influence. It has been and is a broad support for the management plan. The endpoints are between the petroleum interests on the one hand and the environmental interests on the other. When these extremes in the view of the plan go a little bit in their separate direction, it may be a good basis to establish that the plan is balanced. With regard to the committee's examination of the management plan, I am delighted to be surprised at the broad agreement that the plan actually receives. With the background of the last two cases the Stortinget has now debated, one would almost not believe it was possible, but so is the case in this case. Similarly, a Joint Committee has adhered to the principle of comprehensive knowledge and ecosystem-based management. There is reason to say that in this area we once again confirm that we have moved the policy one step in the right direction. It is the knowledge base and sensible management principles that govern, not ideology. Against this background, there is reason to commend the Government for the work outlined in the conclusions and leads of the Storing Message. What, on the other hand, can give rise to concern is the conditions that we ourselves do not have direct control of. Like all other sea areas, the Norwegian Sea is affected by long-distance pollution. One example is marine acidification, with potential adverse effects already expected in 2025. I think a lot of attention needs to be paid to this issue in the coming years. The Norwegian Sea is the source and basis of a significant share of the total Norwegian value added. A Joint Committee is very concerned that this plan should, within an environmentally safe framework, facilitate increased value creation and production over the years to come. Should I personally allow myself to characterise the plan in one area that is not mentioned, it is my opinion that the plan underestimates something of the value and employment factor that lies in the opportunities available to the Norwegian Sea. In the Norwegian Sea, we find the largest fish stocks in the North-East Atlantic, which we share with other countries. In this area, we find spawning and breeding areas for several of the most important species. Therefore, Norway has a special responsibility to secure the areas against influences that could damage these resources in the future. The management of living marine resources is based on sustainable harvesting. This administrative principle is underlined by the Marine Resource Act which entered into force on 1 January of this year. An example of good administration is the reconstruction of Norwegian breeding herring. The main spawning areas are located outside Mora. This relationship is taken into account by the management plan and underlined in the setting. Fishermen have more than a thousand years of tradition of harvesting the sea just outside the front door. Today 14,500 annual works are directly employed in the fisheries and aquaculture industries of the four counties bordering on the management plan area. Now we are responsible for having an administration that allows this tradition to be carried on for thousands of years. Petroleum activity is the largest industry in the world. In the Norwegian Sea there has been petroleum activity since 1993, when the Draugen had its start-up. For 40 years Norway has been an oil and energy nation with significant development, much thanks to this industry. The development of a number of industries can be related to this activity. Very much of the technology and knowledge development in Norway comes as a consequence of this. It has become a Norwegian advantage that it has been and is subject to strict requirements for the petroleum activity. Restrictions and limitations are demanding, but it has given us a world-class industry in terms of knowledge, technology solutions and environmental standards. A good example of knowledge and technology development can be linked to the Kristin field. If we go back a few years, it was quite unimaginable that the Kristin field could be expanded and put into operation. The depth, pressure, temperature and formations should say that the field was not developed. The challenges were solved, and today it is such that they pick up gas and condensate every day from almost 5,000 meters deep. The pressure and temperature of the reservoir are 900 bar and 170 °C respectively. Yes, it is higher than in any field that has so far been built on a Norwegian base. This is a good example of how to solve the challenges of the future or today’s problems. It is therefore important that petroleum activities are provided with opportunities for development by making available new interesting exploration areas when the scope of knowledge and technology so requires. There are two reasons for this: the driving of knowledge and technology in the industry and the total value creation represented by the oil and gas industry. If we are to highlight and further develop the Norwegian welfare society, position ourselves for a carbon-neutral future and also be a helping hand for those people who really need assistance around the world, it will be a prerequisite that we facilitate such development. There have been relatively few conflicts between fisheries and petroleum activity during the 40 years of petroleum activity in Norwegian sea areas. In recent years, expanded seismic surveys have required more and more space to meet fishermen’s needs. Although seismic investigations are limited in time, conflicts have arisen. There is therefore reason to be satisfied that the Government has followed up this contradiction of interest, and that new rules are coming from 1 July this year. But I stress that it must be worked continuously to mitigate the contradictions of interest. Conflict potential must be reduced. As I said, the Norwegian Sea has unique natural values. Some areas are particularly important in order to maintain their integrity in the future. The coastal zone is of great importance to a number of activities and a lot of life. The bog banks, the Haltenbank and the Sklinnabank are important spawning areas. Sularevet and Iverback have their coral reefs. The edge of the egg is important with its versatile meaning. The Arctic front and Jan Mayen have significant environmental values in the form of large seabird colonies, large occurrences of plankton, fish and marine mammals. If these areas are to be addressed with due respect, there should have been a longer talk. I'm not going to, but I'm just going to stress the great importance of the areas. We know that it is discussed to open up activity in relation to, for example: Jan Mayen. But at the same time, it's the belief and confidence that we can move on with activities of different kinds and yet maintain the natural qualities that lead us on. The important thing now is the fact that the management plan is based on a balanced whole, with different industries and environmental considerations focused on each other – that we are taking steps at the right pace, that the steps are based on comprehensive knowledge of impacts, and that the very foundation, the precautionary principle, is maintained. I must pay tribute to the Government so that the management plan takes account of these considerations in a very good way. Finally, I would like to point out three very important areas for the future: The knowledge of MAREANO and SEAPOP must be of great importance in the further work on the management plan and decisions relating to updates and revisions. Oil protection is the second area. Oil protection equipment and monitoring must be continuously improved in order to reduce the likelihood of danger arising from increased ship traffic and petroleum activity. In the suspension, we assume that this happens during the management plan period. It is also important that the Government follow up on what the setting points to, and take an initiative to enable companies and technical environments together with the State to set up technology development programmes to improve oil protection. Emissions are also much discussed. It is important that good assessments are carried out for new and old fields which include overall environmental assessments of measures to prevent unwanted emissions, as well as cost-benefit assessments of setting zero emission requirements for new fields in the future. Finally, the Government has once again presented a good management plan for a large sea area in this big-scale communication. The consideration of the Committee is essentially coherent and underlines the importance of comprehensive and knowledge-based management. As you can see, a good management plan is being adopted during the night. And to put the case rapporteur's hat away for a final moment, there's reason to make the following clear: The government and government parties themselves are glued or centerpieces of a holistic and ecosystem-based maritime administration, and at the same time they are raising the industry's potential for development. Because it is a fact that even with the broad agreement that lies in the matter, the opposition is once again divided into important issues raised by the management plan.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4409	At the outset, I would like to say that it was interesting that the rapporteur pointed out that there was a disagreement in the opposition. I am excited, when I hear SV's comments on the matter, about the apparent agreement that is in the setting, will actually also be to be found in the hall. But let me say that what I feel is the biggest problem with this matter, is not what is in the notice, necessarily, nor what is in the committee's position. The biggest problem, as I see it, is that this is such a big and important matter that it had earned a lot of better time for treatment than what we've been given. But that's life. So it is that I feel to the extent that the management plan for the Norwegian Sea cannot necessarily be called a protection message. It is a message that is very much about yes or no to petroleum. Although the rapporteur was involved in this, I think there are a number of things that should have been mentioned more thoroughly than what has been done here, among other things. in relation to the growth potential of the fisheries and aquaculture industry in this area. This is a sea area that, among other things, contains the three municipalities in my county, Hitra, Fröya and Snillfjord, which export salmon for DKK 3 billion a year. The fishing industry could have been more focused. One of the things I responded to when I read the message was the downgrading of the employment effect of the petroleum industry. On that occasion, however, I would like to commend the case rapporteur for the job done in the Committee, which put great emphasis on stressing the employment effect. So it's just right that the Progress Party and the Right are going even further. However, I believe that the rapporteur has helped to clean that up, and that we now have a unanimous committee that states that the petroleum industry has had a significant employment effect in the trombone, Møre and Romsdal and Nordland. There are many examples. I can bring forward the two municipalities that might have started with the biggest industrial challenges, the Helgeland region and the Nordmøre region. The role of fisheries was severely weakened. The employment effect on fisheries had fallen sharply. Silda is now back. Kristiansund had major industrial policy challenges. Kristiansund has had an amazing growth. There are now 3,000 direct employees in the petroleum industry in the municipality of Kristiansund alone – a fantastic development to which the oil industry has contributed. I started my post by saying that this is a protective message, but it is a reasonably balanced protection message. Durable protection is not even mentioned. I'm very happy about that. You also have a good balance between areas where you say that here you're going to have that kind of activity, or else you're going to have another type of activity. I believe that this has mainly become a balanced protection message. I am particularly pleased that you are talking about the four-year memorandum and not permanent protection. As a result, the Storting does not lock itself to positions that do not open up for a new debate. What we are adopting today is that, based on new science, we, with open eyes, are going to have a debate on this in four years' time, too, without anyone locked himself to positions in relation to these questions. Then I hope that in those areas that now have the strictest regime, you do not see that there are restrictions on the farming industry in addition to what you can afford under the Nature Diversity Act. Then it is that the Progress Party believes that the protection of the Moravian Blocks, the coastal, prospective areas near Mora and Romesdal, is not sensible today. We know that Jan Mayen is opening. I'll come back to that. It will be possible to develop it 15-30 years in advance. The mortar blocks can be expanded into a completely different time horizon. With the financial crisis and falling oil production in Norway, the Progress Party believes that it is not reasonable to protect the Mortars today. On the contrary, we believe that, as we discussed when the Committee on Energy and the Environment last debated a position in the Chamber, together with the Petroleum Act, the necessary environmental considerations are also taken into account for the Mortars, and that it would have been natural to open up petroleum activities over the next four years in that area. But when that doesn't happen, I'm very happy that the government has chosen to lay down on a four-year memorandum, and that there is no talk of permanent protection, unlike what it was in the management plan for the Barents Sea – and I am pleased about that. So there's a lot of talk about coral reefs. It's important. We also talked about this in the context of the Nature Diversity Act. A representative sample of Norwegian cold water corals is still as important as a week ago. But that you should not have any oil drilling because there are coral reefs nearby, I do not agree. As the Progress Party – and also the Right, I think – writes in the setting, one has among other things. Shell's drilling on the President's license has demonstrated that it is fully possible to drill with strict environmental regulations near coral reefs, without damaging the coral reef. When we are discussing the protection of coral reefs, I think that we must include in the debate that, if we are to protect these coral reefs, we must protect them from activity that actually harms them, not from activity that does not have a demonstrable negative effect. I mentioned cards to begin with that I miss a part of the message. One thing I miss is sea mammals and their approach. The Council of State stated in correspondence with the Committee that there would be a separate notification of marine mammals. I've heard for four years that there's going to be a sea mammals report. Like emergency workers for dogs in the Motor Travel Act, no one has seen anything about the notification of marine mammals either. I guess there's nothing to suggest that we're going to treat it in this magnification period, at least. I believe it would have been reasonable that we had also discussed those issues. The Progress Party has not seen it as natural on its own cloak to take it up as a separate theme. But I want to say that I wish we could have had a debate on that. There is no doubt that the stock of soles in parts of the Norwegian Sea is a burden on fisheries not only because of competition for fish but also because of the spread of disease in parts of the Norwegian Sea. I would have liked it to have been addressed in the message when, however, there was no notification of marine mammals. So, for oil protection, as the rapporteur was also in the Chamber. I am very pleased that the rapporteur said that technology development is something that the state must also contribute to. It was very difficult in the last debate to get the oil and energy minister to accept it. But I am glad that the spokesman for the government parties in this case says that it is natural that the state contributes – very well! But then it's like, in this whole area of the sea that this message deals with, it's per. today, no seagoing preparedness. The state's seagoing oil protection guard starts on Røst outside the Lofoten and ends up on Varanger peninsula. In other words, the majority in this Chamber believe that it is right to underestimate the importance of the coast from the salt in the north to the Swedish border in the south. I am pleased that today's overall opposition is in favour of a follow-up to the Storing Message on the safe side, and that a seagoing preparedness is also being established in the Norwegian Sea. Because you don't have that today, and I think that is – if I can get to use that word – almost a scandal. As the rapporteur pointed out, between 14 000 and 15 000 people in this area are drawing their income from the sea. To say to these people that no, their jobs and their local environment are less important than the coastal areas of North Norway is reprehensible. But I am very pleased that the rest of the opposition is coming together with us in order to call for the establishment of a seagoing preparedness also in the Norwegian Sea. It must be a paradox for both the Council of State and other representatives of the Government Parties that the only seagoing preparedness that is actually in the Norwegian Sea is Shell and other petroleum actors who have made it available, in compliance with the provisions of the Petroleum Act, while the State has no responsibility. Of course, if you want to avoid oil spills, it's fun to avoid oil spilling onto the sea. Oil lances and onshore preparedness are well and good, but there is already a problem that cannot necessarily be resolved. Seagoing towing boat readiness is the only thing that can reduce the possibility of getting oil on land. In addition to opposing the protection of the Moravian blocks, we are promoting a proposal. It's actually a little bit of a shame, because I was hoping we'd get a whole committee on a note that we don't think it's natural to push profitable fishing using taxpayers' money – because that's what you do if you accept the establishment of sea windmills on the fishing banks. Once upon a time, for a long, long time, sea windmills, which the entire government wants, must be on shallow water. Where I come from, we call such shallow sea areas fish banks. What the majority do today is to say that we accept the establishment of sea wind turbines in areas where they replace profitable fisheries. I think that's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4445	Then the representative Tord Lien drew up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4448	There is an almost unanimous attitude that is presented here today, and I do not know if it is particularly requested during the rest of the evening and night that I repeat the previous good articles. I doubt it a little, but just a few remarks: In addition to what has been said here, we are in the situation today that the oil and gas activity in the Norwegian Sea is already significant. 25 pst. national production takes place from this gigantic sea area, and there is no doubt that activity in the Norwegian Sea, especially on the lookout side, will increase significantly during the time we meet. There are, of course, signs of many conflicts, and there will be an ongoing increase in activity both in terms of exploration and maritime seismics, and we will see, as the representative Lien pointed out, that the production of new renewable energy – marine wind turbines, etc. – will make some demands, give some challenges, which at least we must clear up before we have a clear, defined policy in this area. The management plan, as the NOU actually provided, should be valid for all sea areas. It's a little disappointing that you haven't taken this into account. Furthermore, the Right is in favour of developing a comprehensive management plan for the Norwegian Sea for the purpose of value creation, co-existence and sustainable use of resources. I just want to stress that in this sensitive sea area, where we have unique coral reefs, where we have seabirds, fish, plants, plankton production, etc. – The Bondevik II government protected e.g. the world’s largest coldwater coral reef, calcareous, in the previous period of government – there has been a significant activity going on. Like the rapporteur, I would also like to stress that the plan does not give sufficient visibility to the value creation and employment perspective relating mainly to petroleum and maritime services. Petroleum activities — we must not forget this — have been the main growth impulse for these coastal areas and for land-based industries and in the service industries in the area in recent years. It's enough to point to the development of the Worm Lange region, the Tjeldbergodden and the expansion of Skarv. The number material presented probably doesn't make visible, in the name of justice, the growth that has happened here, and that's a little bit of a shame. The Norwegian Sea is a major contributor to our total petroleum revenues, which gives us a room for action to limit the adverse effects of the financial crisis and recession, and also enables us financially to have and develop an environmental preparedness of a quality and standard that other coastal nations will have problems to deal with. Since Skarv is mentioned – there was another representative here in the Chamber who entered the Right's position on the Skarv field in a previous debate – let me just say that we supported the Government's proposal. We were pleased that at the time we were able to get to an advanced operating organization, located at the Sandness Lake. I didn't record Lien's representative fighting for Helgeland and Sandnesseen's interests at the time, but we'll probably have plenty of opportunity to come back to that in another debate, when that time comes. Let me just finally thank the case rapporteur for his review and work on the matter, which was thorough, perhaps a very small exception for his conclusion in the form of political cosmetics. He called today's government the dynamo in the development of technology and environmental standards and the basis for activity. As a matter of fact, when we hear the SV representative in the debates that we have had, and still have here tonight, the use of glue is not entirely adequate for what is going on here. Because here I think there must be a situation where you argue against, and vote for, from parts of the government parties. So this has to be glue of various quality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4463	Let me start by thanking the case rapporteur, Terje Aasland, and the Government, too, for the work done on this management plan for the Norwegian Sea. With this management plan, we've been tracking ourselves. We have established a new marine environment policy through the practice of management plans for marine areas. We started with a comprehensive management plan for the Barents Sea and the Lofoten in 2006 and now in 2009 with the Norwegian Sea, and then we will continue with the North Sea. In that case, that would mean 90 pst. of the Norwegian sea areas are covered. The management plan for the Barents Sea and Lofoten was the first management plan for a Norwegian sea area and thus a breakthrough. Work on management plans has also attracted international attention and is something we should be proud of. As we know, the Norwegian Sea has a rich nature, including large and internationally important populations of fish and seabird, and cold-water coral reefs that are unique in a global context. The specific environmental values in the Norwegian Sea require a high level of protection and environmental standards for activity in the area. The challenges in the Norwegian Sea are many. These include, in particular, the effects of climate change, acidification, over-taxation of individual fish stocks, risk of acute contamination, decline of seabird populations and the need for the conservation of coral reefs. So there's a variety of challenges that we have to deal with. That is why we must also continue and strengthen the implementation of a holistic and ecosystem-based management. Ecosystem-based management means that the management of human activities is based on the framework set by the ecosystem for the maintenance of structure, functioning, production and natural diversity – nothing less! This obligates. All marine activities shall now be managed within a framework that ensures that the overall environmental impact does not exceed the conservation of ecosystems. It challenges us because we lack a lot of knowledge about the area. That is why we also have to act as leaders of goods. SV is particularly satisfied with the constraints imposed on coastal and particularly natural areas in the Norwegian Sea. The dark coast is especially important to us. We are also very pleased that the Sularevet and Iverback are proposed as areas for marine protection and are protected against bottom radiation, and that the parts of the Iverback that are open to petroleum activities have been restricted by the fact that no concessions are being issued until the update of the management plan. The same is true of Fron and Sularevet. SV is pleased that we should keep a click on knowledge acquisition, for example. via MARANO and SEAPOP. I mentioned marine protective plans. This is pioneering work in Norway, for which we have great expectations. We are pleased that marine acidification has received extra attention in the message, a theme that has never been affected in political documents such as this. Climate change is going to challenge us strongly in the future. As a coastal nation, we are largely dependent on and responsible for the life of our marine areas. If we don't manage resources in a sustainable way, we say by the branch we're sitting on. At the same time, we're also an oil nation. This means that we often meet at sea in the door, and it is going to be a hotter topic in the future, as we are getting a better understanding of what climate change means for fisheries, bird life and the sea. Expected climate change impacts include, inter alia: changes in sea temperature, ocean currents and sea level. Increased CO2 levels in the atmosphere also lead to increased CO2 levels and acidification of sea water. We do not know how fast and how climate change will affect the marine environment in the Norwegian Sea. However, heating of the Norwegian Sea is expected to lead to a shift of the fronts between Atlantic and Arctic waters northwards and westwards. The specific nature of the Norwegian Sea means that the impact of marine acidification is expected to be particularly rapid here, with adverse effects on ecosystems already by 2025. That is why we are now focusing on building up knowledge and monitoring. Since the beginning of the industrial revolution, water near the sea surface in the world's oceans has already been reduced by approximately pH. 0,1 pH units. Over the next 100 years, a decrease of 0,3 pH units is expected, depending on emission scenarios. This is a trend that is 100 times faster than for the previous 100,000 years. In case of increased intake of CO2 in sea water, acidification occurs which is expressed at reduced pH. As a result, the calcareous shelling organisms have reduced the ability to form calcareous shells. In addition, we have a scare scenario, and that's that because of too much CO2 absorption, the sea is starting to give up CO2 again. Then we get so-called feedbacks, which can really speed up climate change. We have to deal with this, and in the SV's view, all the knowledge we now have should ensure that we get a directed rotation from oil to new renewable energy sources.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4497	The Norwegian Sea is an area far larger than the Norwegian mainland. It is therefore an important milestone when we finally get a comprehensive management plan for this area. The Norwegian Sea has a rich nature, including large and internationally important populations of fish and seabird as well as cold-water coral reefs that are unique in a global context. In the Marine Environment Communication, the Bondevik II Government laid the foundation for a whole new thinking on the management of our marine areas. In turn, they will have their own management plans, where for the first time there will be a holistic and ecosystem-based management of the Norwegian sea and coastal areas. This means that we should no longer be able to take decisions that expose a marine environment to environmental impact, or risk of environmental impact, without putting this into full use, and that the environmental impact or risk is assessed together. This is why it represents a milestone in environmental policy. Ecosystem-based management means that the management of human activities is based on the framework set by the ecosystem for the maintenance of its structure, functioning, production and natural diversity. The Christian People's Party believes that the management plan had been stronger if the Natural Diversity Act had not given it the limitations it had in relation to marine areas. Nevertheless, the Christian People's Party joins the main lines of the message. It is important that we have now also defined the particularly valuable areas in the Norwegian Sea, and that this is relevant to the decisions we make in these areas. Here the Government, according to the Christian People's Party's opinion, has not been able to show a whole and clear line. It is difficult from the Communication to look at clear environmental criteria that justify the Government's policy for each area. Whenever a reader of the message, a few impressions may be that petroleum activities in the TFO regions give rise to another form of environmental impact or give rise to less risk than other petroleum activities. It shows, in our view, that there is a need to assess more closely the basis and effects of the allocation scheme in predefined areas. Furthermore, the Government announces that it will initiate an opening process for petroleum activities in the Norwegian sea areas on the part of Jan Mayen for the purpose of granting concessions. We're still looking for the line of this government in these questions. In the message, the government shows transparency for oil drilling up to 30 km from Jan Mayen. The Barents Sea Management Plan establishes a limit of 50 km from land, after several years of investigations and environmental assessments. Jan Mayen is, among other things, nesting area for several major seabird species. It is difficult to see what assessments are behind this, and the communication at this point gives a signal that environmental concerns are on the wane front, and that in this government other considerations are gaining too often at the expense of the environment. We are pleased that we have arrived that we finally have a management plan for a large and resource-rich area. A holistic and ecosystem-based management imposes great demands on the practical follow-up, where the basic principles must not be overarched by short-term profits.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4514	Let me start by commending the case manager for a thorough and good work, and also for a good presentation of the case here in Stortinget. As a coastal nation, we have at all times taken wealth out of our oceans – fish and marine mammals for more than a thousand years, and in the last decades also petroleum resources. In addition, our marine areas are areas of high transport activity, and in the future they can be used to produce large amounts of renewable energy. Our marine areas hide important natural areas such as cold water coral reefs and areas that are particularly important food and growing areas for different species of fish. Good and resilient management of our marine areas is therefore of great importance both in terms of nature, industry and the environment – now, and in the future. We are very satisfied with the fact that we have now established important management plans for two of our major marine areas, and are concerned that we will also have a follow-up as soon as possible when it comes to North Sea management. Co-existence between the different industries operating in our seas and beyond nature and the environment is sometimes quite demanding. We need good plans to regulate this coexistence. Extraction of petroleum is not problem-free either from the point of view of nature or the environment. Although the players on the Norwegian pedestal are among the world's leading environmental and technology players, we do not avoid the fact that activity through seismic activity, drilling activity and transport to and from has environmental and nature implications. The management plan shall contribute to the framework of this activity, in such a way that it is done in the most reasonable manner possible, and shall, however, determine the area to be and not to be opened for such activity. While the Barents Sea Management Plan requires zero emissions for new installations, the plan we are handling today opens to assess the same requirement in the various cases, such as new or existing installations. From the Center Party's side, we will give a clear signal that we mean the threshold to set lower environmental requirements for new installations in the Norwegian Sea than that agreed for the areas further north, should be very high. Requirements for zero emissions should be actively applied to new installations and should be assessed on a case-by-case basis when existing infrastructure is involved. Throughout time, men, and after all, some women, from the coastal communities, have laid out on the sea for small and eventually larger fishing vessels to house food and values out of the huge food-pocket of our sea areas. This value has not been without risk. 2008 was a historic year in that way. 2008 was the first year of all times when all fish families along the coast experienced getting all their homes alive. 2009 is unfortunately more gloomy. But what is an even greater threat than the forces of nature at sea is we who manage it, if that administration is not resilient. The prior precautionary principle must underpin the administration, assuming that we still have a great deal of knowledge when it comes to marine ecosystems. The centre party has taken a clear stand at its national meeting not to open the Northland VI and VII sea areas and Troms II for petroleum extraction. We've also given the important Moravian Banks the same status. This is a very important spawning and breeding area for important fish species. We don't have the full overview of the consequences of petroleum activity, and we also know that there may be other activities in these areas that pose risks to the ecosystem. Then this is a point of departure for the precautionary principle to avoid being old with our large fish resources. There is an almost inexhaustible potential for offshore wind power in the Norwegian seas if this type of energy production becomes profitable. It is very positive that the government is in the forefront and is working on a law for windmills at sea. The distance of ship traffic from land can be recalculated in minutes and hours if there is a breakdown and/or oil spillage. Valuable response time to limit the damage of such events is important. The distance to land is also inherently rice-coding for maritime traffic. Therefore, it is gratifying that the Government will continue to lay the rent further off the coast even in the sea areas of the son of Røst. Knowledge must be at the heart of management, and it is therefore very important that the MAREANO and SEAPOP programmes be given great importance, and it is important that the Committee emphasises that they should also be further developed to include new areas such as: Jan Mayen area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4546	It is positive that the Government has drawn up a management plan for the Norwegian Sea. The plan contains important clarifications and proposals which will have a significant impact on the management of the marine areas covered. The management plan is based on the ‘Rent and Rich Seas’ Communication from the Bondevik II Government. There, a knowledge-based and ecosystem-based management of our marine areas was added. It is positive that the Government is continuing this work. It is crucial to address the environmental challenges in a good way. As stated in the Communication, the Government will focus on the knowledge acquisition and mapping of environmental values in the context of the roll-out of the management plan. Increased knowledge is important. However, the left has not been reassured by these promises. The government is strongly lagging behind the monitoring of environmental values in the Lofoten and Barents Sea Management Plan. The government, on the other hand, has had full pressure on oil exploration through seismic investigations inside and outside the Lofoten and the Vestral. These studies have also contributed to a significant level of conflict both in the summer of 2007 and in the summer of 2008. In the setting, the government parties say that the government has been effective in addressing these challenges. The left cannot see that the Government has shown action in relation to reducing these conflicts, but on the contrary has been a significant contributor to such a high level of conflict. The extension of the Seismic Shooting Time Window, the non-fulfilment of the promise of follow-up research and the slow and bureaucratic payment of compensation to the fishermen concerned for losses caused by the seismic shooting contributed to an unnecessarily high level of conflict. As regards the framework of activity in the Norwegian Sea, the Left is critical that the Government of the Management Plan facilitates petroleum activity in vulnerable sea areas, such as: by Jan Mayen. It is also added to an opening process in the arctic front. The left is the opposite activity in these vulnerable areas, and the left has in the setting asked the Government to stop the opening process of petroleum activity outside Jan Mayen. The left will also point out that the Government is suggesting that petroleum activity should not be operated within 30 km of land around Jan Mayen. There is reason to wonder about this, as the Government proposed a corresponding 50 km belt from land along the vulnerable Finnmark coast in connection with the Lofoten and Barents Sea Management Plan. It is incomprehensible that the Government treats the coast off Finnmark and the coast off Jan Mayen so differently. These coastal areas should be treated equally with regard to near-land petroleum activity. One of the major risk factors for petroleum activity in coastal areas is oil spills towards land. Response time through distance from countries is then crucial. Therefore, the Left believes that if the government parties are to continue the opening process around Jan Mayen, it must at least be set as a limit that it should be 50 km away from where the activity is started. Marine energy production is also a theme in this setting, and I want to stress the importance of systematically working with that area. Therefore, it is a little surprising that the Stortinget has not been presented with a national strategy for marine energy production, as we were promised, and as ordered in the climate agreement. It's been a few years since the Left suggested in Stortinget that a strategy be developed for marine energy production. Then it was voted down by the government parties. Then we got it into the climate agreement, and the government has announced that it would come to Stortinget before the summer. This has not happened, but there is at least reason to call for full pressure on this issue, because there is an area of enormous potential, but where there is also a need to balance different areas of conflict and to establish procedures for further work in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4569	Let me also thank the case rapporteur for both a good post and a good job, and let me join the many people who have said that this is a historic day. It is of great international importance that Norway first prepares a management plan for the Barents Sea, then for the Norwegian Sea, and will complete its work on a similar management plan for the North Sea. In all contacts with Nordic and other international colleagues, this is something that is valued, as noted, and from which other countries are interested in studying the experience. Since some members of the opposition have spent time hacking small, let me also add that there is a significant difference between what the Bondevik government did, namely to declare that it was a good idea to make such management plans, and the very laborious, difficult work to balance all the interests in the Barents Sea and in the Norwegian Sea, and to get into a management plan that is – as Tord Lien quite rightly said – a protective plan, but a balanced protection plan. It is a management plan which takes into account that the specific environmental values of the Norwegian Sea require a high level of protection and high environmental standards. Let me mention some of the most important new grips that are being done here, and that have a big, long-term environmental significance. Firstly, no new concessions for petroleum activities are announced at the Moravian Banks. It is a very clear signal that since these are as important as spawning grounds, you will not be able to start petroleum activities there. Secondly, the protection of coral reefs is strengthened. It is a new approach, which should perhaps have been taken earlier in Norwegian policy, but which is at least now being taken, and which is absolutely crucial to protecting the coral reefs. Thirdly, we are formally introducing marine protective plans. A number of areas will be considered for this purpose. It's a parallel to the protection work that's been driven to land for a long time. Now we're expanding it by also starting protective plans at sea. And perhaps most importantly, we are strengthening the level of knowledge about the effects of marine acidification. I can mention that internationally, it is more and more marked as one of the really great consequences of climate change that the seas are getting acidified. We are now far from having full knowledge of what this will mean, but there is every reason to take a serious view of the situation. Sea acidification will lead to major problems for a number of smaller animals, especially shellfish and lime-based animals, leading to major problems throughout the food chain. Many researchers talk about this as one of the really serious impacts of climate change. It is also one of the relatively few impacts of climate change that, in all likelihood, impact more strongly on Norway than on the international scene. In most areas, the effects of climate change are much tougher in tropical strata and in more vulnerable areas like China and India than they are up here in the rugged North, but marine acidification seems to be becoming a bigger problem in cold waters than in hot waters. That is why this will be a particular problem for Norwegian coastal areas. So there's every reason to take it seriously, and we start working on it through this management plan. The management plan contains a number of other good measures. Erling Sande and others have been involved in laying the ship's lease further out of the country. It is an important measure that increases the level of protection. Action is taken against uncontrolled and uncontrolled fishing. Of course, it is important and in line with what has been Norwegian policy for many years. And new measures are being taken to protect seabirds. All in all, there is a balanced plan, but there is an environmental plan and a protection plan that internationally puts us in the driver's seat in terms of taking care of sea areas. But far more important than being able to boast about it internationally is the fact that this is an incredibly important step in ensuring absolutely crucial natural qualities for future generations in this country. The plan is ecosystem-based and knowledge-based and of course needs to be rotated over the years as all the new knowledge we are going to get through the various research programmes, which are also part of the whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4593	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4596	Let's first of all note that there is at least a broad consensus that this is a historic day, and I will then bring forward both opening for the Goliath field and opening for oil drilling at the Jan Mayen back. I was in my contribution to the fact that in the area from Røst to the Russian border, it is so important to have a state-owned seagoing tugboat stand in place that the government takes the bill for it. In the context of the ‘Safe side’ notification, a sketch was made for a solution for seagoing preparedness in the area between the Røst and the Swedish border. What makes the marine and coastal areas of the Norwegian Sea less important in terms of acute pollution than the sea and coastal areas of northern Norway between the Røst and the Russian border?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4603	Of course, it is not more important in northern sea areas than in the sea areas around central Norway. Our assessment is that in this area there is a good, satisfactory private capacity to do this. It can be mobilised in any crisis situation. I'm a little surprised that the Progress Party and other parties are worried that the crisis preparedness is also on private hands.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4610	Yes, a historic day or not: I see it as a management plan we are dealing with today – including how we should manage, among other things. the areas around the fishing protection zone of Jan Mayen. I've been warning you about activity in this area for years. However, Iceland has decided to engage in petroleum activity in its part of this marine area. Norway has an intention agreement to participate in a joint development of this area with Iceland. Will the Council of State take part in this cooperation with Iceland and set a Norwegian standard for technological and environmental development in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4615	I visited Iceland two or three weeks ago, and it's true, as the questioner says, that there's a significant Icelandic interest in oil drilling at Jan Mayen. I met several Icelandic politicians who saw this as a new adventure. It is also true that Norway has far more and more experience in this field than Iceland has, and perhaps also experience that some Icelanders believe it is not going as quickly as some Icelanders believe. It is clear that any Norwegian expertise in these areas will always be available to our Icelandic neighbours. This is also the case in EU negotiations and in a number of areas – we will help our neighbours if they need it. But it's not like we're facing some immediate exploitation of the oil resources at Jan Mayen. This is a long-term perspective. The Icelandic decision is part of the decision-making basis, but this is an area where we have to slow down. We need to acquire full knowledge of both the resource base and the environmental impact before final decisions are taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4622	We need ecosystem-based management, which means that the management of our human activities should be based on the frameworks that the ecosystem sets for the maintenance of its structure, functioning and production of natural diversity. In the committee setting, it says: ‘Jan Mayen has significant environmental values in the form of a particular geology, large seabird colonies and intact oceanic ecosystems due to its isolated location. Along the arctic front are plankton, fish and marine mammals. The Committee would stress Jan Mayen’s comprehensive national and international protection values.’» Nevertheless, the Government opens for drilling up to 30 km from the Jan Mayen coast. It is difficult to see the professional ecosystem-based rationale for this opening. I ask the Council of State to explain this to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4632	I answered a lot of this question already in the previous answer. What the government opens up is to acquire far more knowledge of the oil resources that lie outside of Jan Mayen, but also far more knowledge of how any oil drilling in these areas will affect the many environmental qualities that the questioner develops. There is no doubt that these are areas of very special environmental quality. If a decision on drilling activity is made there at any time, we need to carefully evaluate all these environmental qualities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4639	In the program that SV provided before the previous selection, and which they asked for the voter's confidence to complete, they say no to all oil activity in the north. So today, the Minister of Environmental Protection from SV is experiencing praise from the Progress Party for having opened the Jan Mayen back to oil activity and to say yes to Goliath. Most likely it has gone quickly, and then in the opposite direction of the SV they said they should go in. I don't think there was any good reason for the question from Line Henriette Holten Hemdal. What's the logic behind that there's 50 km-frontier from land along the Finnmark coast and just 30 km-frontier from Jan Mayen? Earlier today, we've heard No Marte Thorkildsen say that when areas are opened for the clearance of the resource base, it's de facto opening for activity. That was the reason why SV went in for Goliath.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4650	I allow myself to turn this all the way down. It is true that SV has achieved a lot. SV got 8.8 pst on previous option. by the voices, and we have achieved phenomenal results in a government together with our partners in the Central Party and the Labour Party. I have presented these results in a number of debates in the United Kingdom in recent times. Every time I get a message that I boast too much, even though all the points are correct. All points are also a little more painful for the Christian People's Party and the Left, because they demonstrate to the full how much more we have achieved in cooperation with the Center Party and the Workers' Party than what the Christian People's Party and the Left have achieved in cooperation with the Right. Let me point to the question that is now being raised, about oil drilling in Lofoten and the Westphalia. So here's two parts, the Center Party and the SV, that we're going to say no to this. The third party is the Workers' Party, which will openly assess the outcome when you get more knowledge of it, while the Left's preferred partner at its national meeting said that oil drilling had to be started in Lofoten and the West Pole as quickly as possible, for the haste.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4657	I would like to think that the Council of State in its enthusiasm for both the one and the other has forgotten to read the setting before he came here today. It says that if a tug-boat stand in the Norwegian Sea had been established according to the British model – which I assume the Council of State is aware of – with a combination of several state agencies and private vessels that have their own functions in each region, the cost would not have been disproportionate. That's what the opposition thinks about the matter. This means that it is natural to add this tug-boat gear, for example: to Halten, based on private capacity. That means that between Halten and Røst there is a need for vessels of state calibre. The costs of such a scheme are clearly affordable, and would have sent a signal to those who export fish for billions of dollars from these four states, that they are also taken seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4664	I just have to admit, I'm not as knowledgeable about British oil preparedness systems as Tord Lien. I'd like to learn more about it. Of course, if there are things we can learn from the United Kingdom, we have to be open to it. We need to improve Norwegian oil protection at all times. It should be at the top of the world. It should be best available. I just wondered that the Progress Party expressed a special concern that parts of this was on private hands. In Tord Lien's posts it turned out that it was worrying that Shell had built up some of this. I can see it the other way around. It's quite deserving and right that Shell has done it. The fact that the Norwegian authorities have pressured private companies to build up parts of this capacity is only a sensible division where private individuals also contribute to the community. Of course, all this has to happen within a public framework, but the fact that parts of it are done by private people is not problematic for SV. I'm a little surprised that it's problematic for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4672	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4675	The management plan for the Lofoten and the Barents Sea was the first management plan for a Norwegian sea area. The watchful sight internationally, and we red-green are proud of this pioneering work. But not enough with that. Today, we're going to have another management plan, three years after the first one, and both in the same magnification period. It is a management plan for the Norwegian Sea and it will form the basis for a good balance between the consideration of value added and the consideration of the environment in the future. Co-existence is the key. We know that there are different views about different industries, and then I think about fishing and petroleum activities. The Norwegian Sea Management Plan emphasises the sustainable harvesting of resources. Then it's very easy just to think about fish, but in many places in the Norwegian Sea there are large oil and gas resources. Some of these resources have been used, but there is still a lot left. These resources will be sought in the future, and it is important that we have a management plan that provides protection for the main environmental values in this marine environment. Nevertheless, large areas will be available for both petroleum activities and wind turbines, and soon there will be legislation in place for offshore wind turbines. Researchers say that the Norwegian Sea is in good condition for the environment, but climate change and acidification threaten the future. We have too little knowledge of this, we have too little knowledge of the bottoms of the sea and the conditions of the seabirds. Therefore, it is important that we continue the Seabird Programme, Seapop, and bottom mapping with the MAREANO programme also in the Norwegian Sea. I'm glad the coral reefs are now being protected. The petroleum industry has done some mappings of coral reefs, and I expect it not to be drilled in, or near, a coral reef. But I'll think it's just as important to get the bottom radiation of the fish out of these coral reefs. Another thing that needs to be given even more attention in the future is oil protection, especially when we move towards coastal areas. This has received a good review in St.meld. No 37 and in the setting of this. For Northern Norway, the Norwegian Sea has been of great importance for housing and jobs, and it will be in the future as well. The signals from Northern Ireland in connection with the management plan for the Norwegian Sea are both good – and less good. The good thing is that we now get a management plan so that we can be more guided was, and the bad is mentioned in Chapter 4.2, page 49, on population, employment and value creation. It says: ‘There is currently not much petroleum-related activity in Northern Ireland, but some supply/helicopter services are performed to the Norwegian Sea from the Sandness Lake/Brønnøysund.’ This is a little too modest. Lake Sandness and Helgeland have been developing very well in recent years — and more so. It's just to look at the distribution of blocks in the 20th concession round. The Norwegian Sea Management Plan shall be updated in 2014 and run until 2025, and the landscape will then look completely different. Nordland has relatively high expectations for both smaller and larger gas finds west of Helgeland, and the largest voltage is that of the Gro field. Maybe we see the contours of a gas province? I believe that future petroleum activities outside the Nordic region will have major ring-effects in terms of jobs and industrial development. Some people believe that the notification should almost only focus on maintaining the structure and functioning of ecosystems, and it is very important, but it states that the Government’s purpose of the Norwegian Sea management plan is to facilitate the creation of value and coexistence between individual industries through sustainable use. This is my last post in Stortinget – so thank you.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4706	Thank you for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4709	The management plan for the Norwegian Sea has a two-fold objective: the creation and conservation of ecosystems. The Government has presented a good and balanced management plan for the Norwegian Sea. It's a continuation of what I want to define as a responsible administration. I am pleased that the majority of the Committee subscribes to the measures presented in this plan. We clearly say that large, open areas in the Norwegian Sea should still be available for petroleum activities under clear and predictable conditions. We also demonstrate the willingness to assess new areas in order to ensure the possibility of the nutrient element in relation to the management plan. Petroleum activities in the Norwegian Sea have been important for a long time. We have created jobs and values for 30 years related to the petroleum activity in the Norwegian Sea. 20 pst. by the expected petroleum resources in the area have been produced so far. We're assuming that as much as 40 pst. still not found in this area. There is a broad political consensus that we should continue to have petroleum activities on Norwegian soil. The Norwegian Sea will be a bearer in that way. Continued petroleum activities require predictability and access to land to make new findings, to counteract falling oil production and to create employment and values. That is why we are now also going to investigate whether Norwegian sea areas at Jan Mayen should be opened up to petroleum activities and, in the case, under what conditions. We need more knowledge about the potential of Jan Mayen. With today's data coverage, the Oil Directorate considers the resource base in the Jan Mayen area to be uncertain. However, several interesting structures have been identified and should be examined further. Iceland’s concession round and the need to attend to Norwegian interests are an important additional element. The opening process on the Norwegian side shall identify the resource base for petroleum and its environmental values in the area and an impact assessment shall be carried out to assess the impact of the petroleum activity in that area. We are preliminary to what can be called the fact-finding mission in good Norwegian. An opening process, and in particular the impact assessment, shall address business-related issues. The Government's recommendation on the opening issue shall be submitted to the Size. The majority takes a decision on opening in this area, if any. The management plan balances between the extremes of one-sided protection thinking and the fact that it is only clear – between this we have just the good management idea that is the basis for a management plan. If we go into the country and look at More, we will not announce new concessions until the update of the plan. There are different professional input and assessments of the impact of acute oil spills on fish stocks and there is a need to strengthen knowledge in this area. Coral reefs are devoted to a large amount of space in the management plan. In those parts of the Iverback and Sularevet which are currently open to petroleum activities, no new concessions will be issued until the update of the management plan. Petroleum activities are already required to monitor and not damage coral reefs and other valuable bottom communities. We still say stop to new concessions at Iverback and Sularevet. We want to know more about petroleum activities in these areas and whether it is feasible to go further. In updating the management plan, the Government will consider the issue of activities in these areas. Today, we have a good and balanced management plan for the Norwegian Sea. The management plan provides a basis for continued good development, including of petroleum activities in these sea areas. We have established restrictions and conditions to protect the environment while at the same time preserving the economic and economic values of the region.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4728	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4731	There's been an interesting evening at Stortinget. We have experienced that many representatives have expressed positions that go against what their own government is in favour of. I think the Council of State made a pretty good contribution, because the reflected willingness and desire to combine resource use with the preservation of environmental values. The Council of State referred to this plan as a management plan. But how comfortable is the Council of State all in all when the executive council behind the plan just ten minutes ago said that this is a protective plan? He said this was about protection. Does the Council of State think that he really has the leeway needed to find a good compromise for the proper use of resources, when the main intention of the Ministry and the Council of State drawing up this plan is that this is a protection plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4738	I hope that in my article I expressed enthusiasm in relation to this management plan, because I sincerely believe in the solution that has been chosen here. I think it would be totally wrong to make sure that only oil/petroleum interests are preserved by such a plan. Similarly, I believe that only thinking about protection and not looking at the areas of the future will be wrong. In the play area that lies there, I believe that through the work of the Government with this plan, we have managed to balance these considerations. I tried to prepare it in my post. I believe that this is also in line with what the Minister for the Environment explained in his statement. So this is a management plan that I'm very happy to have been involved in working with, and that I look forward to having a decision in Stortinget about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4743	The management plan proposes that we define some areas as particularly valuable, and that this should affect the decisions we make in these areas. Reading the message gives the impression that petroleum activities in such TFO areas give rise to a different type of environmental impact or give rise to less risk than other petroleum activities. We know that it's just another form of allocation, but that the activity will be equally environmentally harmful for vulnerable areas. Does the Council of State see that the notification has a weakness at this point in relation to TFO versus how the petroleum activity is generally referred to?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4750	I do not agree with that issue. Of course, we also have clear frameworks in relation to the TFO business and what is announced through the rounds. What distinguishes the TFO from the other calls and the other oil companies is that it goes into the areas where we have had activity in the past, and that in this way we also have a different history related to the business. Now what we're saying is a caution in terms of where we want to develop new activity, possibly expanding the areas that we haven't been in before.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4755	The Environment Minister was so excited and excited when he pulled his ingenious show list that he was injured not to answer the question I asked him. I asked what was the logic when the government says that you can do oil activity up to 30 kilometers from Jan Mayen, while you have set a limit of 50 kilometers from the Finnmark coast. My question is, what is the logic of that? Skritting lists and what else you've done in environmental policy, we'll get back to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4760	First, I want to say that I understand very well that the Environment Minister wants to boast, because he has a lot to boast about. I doubt, when the story is written, whether there are many environmental protection ministers who have had more to boast of than Erik Solheim has had. So to the question from the representative. The reality is that with Jan Mayen, we're not going into today and we're defining areas of oil activity. We define areas for mapping. The size of the plot will be presented as a framework for any oil activity in the area, if appropriate. So that's how we've got a lot shorter in the discussion about Jan Mayen than we've done in other parts of the Norwegian Sea, in and of course the Barents Sea, and not least the North Sea. So those questions we'll come back to with a closer assessment when any oil activity is involved in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4768	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4771	I think it has been good to follow the debate so far. I am pleased with the broad consensus it seems to be on the ecosystem-based approach on which this plan is based. That approach also laid the basis for the Barents Sea, Lofoten and the Western Sea management plan. We have just adopted a natural diversity law on the basis of the same principles. These combined actions have led to a significant rise and major modernisation of the management of Norwegian nature and Norwegian sea areas over the last few years. The geographical balances with regard to the areas to be available for petroleum activities are, of course, the ones with the most interest. Most of the discussion has been about the decision to start the opening process in the area around Jan Mayen with a view to distributing concessions. It's an area that is believed to be vulnerable and that has unique environmental values that we per. today has limited knowledge of it. I would therefore like to point out that an overall committee is clear that a comprehensive survey of the area is necessary for the proper functioning of the opening process. Particular reference is made to the programmes for the monitoring of seabirds and seabeds, Seapop and MAREANO, and the importance of these programmes for the collection of knowledge in the area. There is no doubt that there are large protection values associated with the area, and there is a process in progress to protect Jan Mayen as a nature reserve. It is important that any petroleum activity is so remote from the nature reserve that the protection values are not impaired. There is an overall committee that is also behind that clarification. Then it's stated in the proposition that there should be no petroleum activity within a 30-kilometre belt around Jan Mayen. The area outside is to be investigated. This means that, following the impact assessment, it is determined how close countries it may be to activity. It must be based on professional assessments and the knowledge gained from the overall survey to be carried out. But in any case, petroleum activity within these 30 kilometers is not relevant. Then I also think it is important to say that it is Iceland's announced activity that is the triggering reason why the question of Jan Mayen has now become relevant. Norway and Iceland have a common administrative area, and Norwegian value creation has been crucial in choosing to start an opening process. There's an assessment that's specific to Jan Mayen and the common administration area we have there. It shall not be such that Jan Mayen automatically becomes an opening port into arctic strokes for the petroleum activity. All such possible future assessments must be made on the basis of sound and comprehensive knowledge and, of course, the precautionary principle should always be taken into account. I would also like to make a few brief comments on the issue of emissions to the sea. State pollution control, together with the State Radiation Protection Agency and the Oil Directorate, has not recommended the introduction of a general zero emission requirement, as has been done with regard to the management area of the Barents Sea, the Lofoten and the Western Sea. The report is not being consulted and the input to the consultation round shall be weighted. I would like to mention here in particular the Marine Research Institute, which has a great deal of professional weight on this issue. It is also worth noting that the Committee pays particular attention to the emission requirements to be applied in regions with vulnerable fauna, such as the environment. coral reefs and central spawning areas for bottom spawning fish. In such areas, the use of cap and drilling fluid management technologies shall be required to prevent sludge. It's important to be told. At the end of the day, I would like to draw up a case which has been under discussion around, but which deserves attention. It is that with this plan we are alerting the launch of a process for marine protection plans during 2009. Norway has committed itself internationally to the establishment of a network of marine protected areas. By protecting some of our most unique areas, we are following up on these commitments. It's basically smaller areas within 12 nautical miles, but they have very special ecological and natural qualities. It is primarily the type of areas that are currently being protected, and I am pleased that we are now getting a systematic effort to take care of these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4792	Some government councils sometimes have some challenges in answering questions. Therefore, I need to clarify a little about this with oil protection and the fact that the Progress Party would be sceptical to private actors. That's not what I tried to express. I tried on the contrary to say that it is very good that we have some private actors in the area – if not we had no actors. We had that in the Agder counties a few years ago, when a major chemical tank came into fire. The big community then believed that the Agder forces had very good and large tug capacity, but this tanker stood in fire for 12 hours before the first tug vessel came in position to help it. There is a situation that can also occur in large parts of the Norwegian Sea, where there are a few large vessels. An agreement with these vessels that they had a duty to be present and with a given response time – as described in a British safety model – could probably have corrected some of this. I think the debate has shown that the fishing and aquaculture industry has no great place in the Norwegian Sea, despite the fact that it obviously has it in the real world. The presence of two government councils – but not the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs – when we are discussing a maritime report illustrates this too. But then to my friends in the opposition – the Christian People's Party and the Left. When you discuss the Jan Mayen question, I think you're oversimplifying a lot. Firstly, in 1981, Norway and Iceland entered into an oil activity agreement on the Jan Mayen back. That agreement shall continue to apply. As Marthinsen had come to, it is this agreement that makes it absolutely necessary for Norway to say that we are also running it, that we are participating with Norwegian competence in the development of the oil regions in the Jan Mayen back. I think Marthinsen also pointed out very well how close land oil drilling could be. That's something we'll get back to when you open the areas, if you want. But then I get a little scared when I hear some of the representatives of the government parties say that near the coral reefs in the Norwegian Sea there should be no oil activity. Much of the Norwegian Sea is then excluded from any petroleum activity. Given that it is the oil industry that has found most coral reefs in Norway, I think it will be a bit of a special approach. As I mentioned earlier, we have examples of successful oil drilling, which has been carried out without damaging the coral reefs, which have sometimes been very close, for example. The shell drilled.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4807	It is a key objective of Norwegian fisheries policy that we should contribute to long-term sustainable value creation and a resource use that is beneficial to the whole of society. Both settlement and nutrient development in Coast Norway have been and are dependent on fisheries. Therefore, we must manage the marine environment in such a way that we can continue to reap the resources of the sea as long as the oil age is over. In the Norwegian Sea there are spawning and growing areas for several of our main fish stocks. 90 pst. Of the populations that we harvest, we share with other countries. That's why it's so important that we see our own management of the area from an international perspective, and it underlines our special responsibility to protect these areas from harmful influences. The management of living marine resources is based on sustainable harvesting. This administrative principle has been maintained and underlined by the Marine Resource Act, which entered into force on 1 January of this year. The law requires increased research and monitoring efforts precisely because increased knowledge continues to contribute to improved resource management. The importance of research for coastal development is also illustrated by what is called bio-prospecting, and in particular the research on cold-resistant organisms. Here it can actually be that we can find the solution to the cancer problem, or we can find the active ingredients that make it possible to control HIV and AIDS. I believe that marine biotechnology will gradually open up completely new business opportunities, which of course we also need to take into account in our management plans. An ecosystem-based management means that human activity in the sea does not compromise nature’s resilience. The management plan must therefore be a tool for value creation and for maintaining environmental values in marine areas. It is clearly clear that fisheries have an impact on ecosystems. We have overfished some of our fish stocks, partly because of insensibility, partly because of the desire for financial gain. It's not always as easy to rebuild populations once the damage is done, but it's possible if we want to do it. An example of this, also referred to by the case-rapporteur, is the population of Norwegian springing herring, which lay down for many years. We actually stopped fishing for such herring. This year the marine scientists have recommended that we take out a total of 1.6 million tonnes of Norwegian herring herring. Silda slips on the bottom, and the fertilized eggs are attached to the bottom. When the eggs hatch, the larvae rise to the surface water, where they passively drift northwards with the currents of the sea. The point is that the areas for such gything are pretty limited, and that's why we've protected important spawning grounds off the Mure coast. I'm willing to say that I think it's a strength for the whole plan that we've protected these areas. I think we're going to recognise that our economic activity in the marine areas sometimes creates conflicts, and that is particularly true between oil and fish, but eventually also with regard to increasing ship traffic and the establishment of offshore wind turbines. Of course, we need to do our part to ensure that these conflicts of interest can be resolved as much as possible, and co-existence between different industries is also a very important objective in the management plan. So far, there have been few conflicts between oil and fish, but as the oil industry has moved northwards, seismic surveys in vulnerable areas have provoked the anger of fishermen. In particular, this is about seismic shooting outside of Lofoten and the West Sea last year, and I must say that the Oil Directorate could have shown a better understanding of the implementation of the last year's programme. This has led the fisheries and oil authorities to re-examine the legislation on this type of activity and to propose a number of changes. Then we'll see if this helps to mitigate the conflicts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4831	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4834	Norway is the only petroleum producing country in the world that has a holistic and ecosystem-based management of sea areas where oil and gas are extracted from the seabed. I have experienced that this has attracted great international attention and recognition. We can be proud of that, and magnification and government can be pleased that there is a broad political outreach both to have such plans and to have large parts of the content, as today's debate has shown. In the two management plans we now have, we have established a co-existence between industries, especially oil and fish, a sustainable use of resources and environmental considerations and values. Although Norway is probably the best country in the world to combine these fundamental interests, the knowledge that nature has tolerance limits does not need to be exceeded without causing irreparable damage. It is therefore important that we now take the next step to develop and adopt such management plans. A knowledge-based management shall balance all considerations. This means that we get long-term planning of how to use our petroleum resources. We see the whole thing, and very important: we have introduced openness. It hasn't always been like that. There are now wide-ranging open consultation rounds for new exploration sites. All can make their views known – from the petroleum industry and fishermen to different interest groups and the environmental movement as a whole. Oil and gas production is particularly important for value creation, jobs, skills growth and technology development. We notice this very well in More and Romesdal – I use it as an example. Although the management plan imposes restrictions on some marine areas, it also offers great opportunities for the oil industry in the future. I have always been strongly opposed to the announcement of exploration concessions on the Moravian blocks, among other things. based on the reasoning that Steinar Gullvåg now had, and I have said clearly about this for a long time. I am therefore very pleased that, in the coming years, there will be no petroleum activity in the Moravian banks, which for a period is the birthplace and growing area of huge herring. An accident from oil production that could have fatal consequences for our large herring tribe — the world’s largest. That chance is not allowed to take. The clock has passed twelve, so I say good night.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4851	We may be a little impatient after moving on to the next matter, but I will not try to extend the debate – just a few comments at the end. One is the debate on this is a safety report, as Mr Lien suggested. He stressed, however, that it was a balanced safety report. If he thinks that it is not free from the petroleum industry, that is quite right. But then I believe that he is using the wording «defence message» deliberately wrong. It's a management plan we're dealing with, and it's a management plan that kind of pulls up the possibilities and constraints in the future. It is the knowledge and consideration of the whole of the sea area that forms the basis for what will happen in the future. Then there's been a debate about coral reefs. What we're concerned about is protecting the coral reefs. I don't feel like there's any contradiction in that. It's just that the drill core shouldn't be in the middle of the coral reef. We're not really saying anything else from the majority either. Let's say: ‘The majority would stress that drilling must take place at such a distance from coral reefs that drilling sludge does not damage surrounding deposits.’ I note that the Right Party and the Advance Party do not agree with this observation, but I assume that both the Right Party and the Advance Party are in favour of it anyway. It will then be referred to the proposal of the Progress Party on wind power and restrictions there. That's a prerequisite in the plan, because it's a whole plan. The wind power shall not destroy other industries established in the area, so it is actually an unnecessary proposal. An overall committee points out that a law for this is now being worked on, saying: ‘However, in the management of the sea areas itself, wind farms will pose administrative challenges based on what we can today assume to be future solutions.’ It writes an overall committee. ‘The Committee will therefore follow these developments closely.’ That is why, in my view, there is no need to vote on that proposal by the Progress Party. I don't disagree with that, but it's part of the management plan. So oil conservation has been a topic. I would like to stress that I agree with much of the concern that Tord Lien expresses. For this reason, a Joint Committee has also pointed out precisely the challenges of strengthening oil protection and good oil protection, ensuring that we are doing what we can in relation to the precautionary principle and in order to prevent any adverse effects of emissions, whether from shipping or petroleum activities. I just want to end with what we're actually saying, where we're asking the Government to take an initiative that companies and technical, professional environments together with the state can set up technology development programs to improve oil protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4882	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 26. [[See page 4020]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4899	At the request of the Energy and Environment Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4908	This case has had an unfortunate procedure. It is critical that the proposal will be handed over in Stortinget on 28 April and will only be answered by the department on Monday this week. As a result, the committee was given only a few hours to deal with the matter and, of course, without any possibility of group or board proceedings. I absolutely hope it does not form a pattern for anyone, how this matter has been dealt with. Nevertheless, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, we have a clear consensus on the proposal that the Christian People's Party addresses. In particular, it is established, here and in the whole of Stortinget, that the Norwegian car park has an age too high, which results in large emissions, and which is not least very favourable in terms of safety. Then there have been fees that have been positive, and that have helped to reward the more environmentally friendly cars, but at the same time does not go far enough. This proposal is a temporary proposal which must also be seen as such. However, what is needed in the long term is a predictable one-off car charging system, which actually provides for one single component, namely environmental emissions. This will allow the real zero-emission vehicle to receive a zero-emission fee. If you're right on top of it, it's not like a big jump today, but you get the benefit of being a zero-emission vehicle. It makes for the Right that since this was a temporary proposal, it was possible to support it. But the intention of changes to the charging system is firm, and there is clearly something a new government needs to grips with. Then I take up the proposal that the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left stand together.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4919	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4922	The Christian People's Party agrees with the rapporteur's comments on the critically long period of consideration that this proposal has had in the department. But to the point: the transport sector is our largest emission source. In view of the climate challenges, we know that we need to reduce our emissions, not increase them. We have set national targets that by 2020 we will have cut between 15 and 17 million CO2 equivalents, and two thirds of this will be done at home. We know that in 2012 there are Kyoto obligations that apply. In 2008, emissions from the transport sector decreased. But this was primarily due to the financial crisis. That we took a smaller taxi, and that the industry was running less, luckily got out well. But we have to use the financial crisis for a green conversion and not rest on these laurels. The transport sector is our main source of emissions, but the transport sector also has major challenges in relation to all the individual emissions we are facing. However, the transport sector is also a very exciting sector. Volvo launched a time back V70 emissions of 104 g/km CO2 – a drastic reduction in CO2 emissions. We have more environmentally friendly fuels available, and more will come. We get models like plug-in hybrid cars, we have multiple electric cars. We also had a debate last week about increasing the wreckage of the oldest and most environmentally hostile cars. The Christian People's Party wants to facilitate environmentally friendly choices. The challenge is not that we run, but the challenge is how much emissions we have on our rides. The environmental car premium, or ‘cash support’ as SV and also the State Council refer to the environmental car premium as in their letter of reply to the Stortinget, is a scheme that has worked well in Sweden. For Christian People's Party, the environmental car premium is just one element in the Christian People's Party's conversion of the car park in a more environmentally friendly direction. It was successful in Sweden, despite the fact that they do not have a one-off fee. But there's no contradiction in this. The car industry is in favour of this, the environmental movement is in favour of this, so this should be a proposal that we could agree on. The majority write in their settings that cars that have a emissions of 60 grams of CO2 per. driven km, will receive a reduced aid of NOK 30000. When I called the Road Traffic Information Office, they said the system was such, but there are no cars of this type on the roads today. There is a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions we need, and then we don't have to make arrangements that only work on paper, but that don't work in practice. It helps very little in the environmental accounts. The proposals of the Christian People's Party have been supported by the Left and Right, and it would be an important signal we sent if we were able to get an environmental car premium scheme. It is also important to clarify that if such a scheme is put in place, the emission limit for the payment of this aid could be adjusted in the light of technological developments. The Swedes started at 120 g/km CO2, but the Swedes also have to descend to bring the latest and most environmentally friendly cars at all times. It is important for the Christian People's Party to clarify in this debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4952	I'm sorry, there are a few things that are less on my mind than prolonging the debate – but since I was invited to it: We were dealing with a fairly similar proposal just a few weeks ago, I suppose. For the sake of order, I would like to sum up what was the reason why the government then rejected rather parallel proposals. We believe that these are good proposals for countries that have a large car industry and want to get speed on car sales. Sweden has a large car industry, but also countries like Germany and others have it. If the goal is to increase car sales, this is not a bad proposal. It is natural that many countries have promoted it in a period of financial crisis. On the other hand, it is a very bad proposal from an environmental point of view. That's for two reasons. These are very expensive suggestions. It costs a lot of money, which can alternatively be spent on much better environmental measures. And more importantly, these proposals come at a wrong time. Why on earth should we lock people in an old technology for a year or two before we get electric cars and plug-in cars for a mass market? Then it might be useful to have this kind of premium to get a quick transition. But if we ask people to buy the most environmentally friendly cars per. date, we lock people for too long to cars that are not so environmentally friendly anyway. Nobody who buys a car in 2010 will scrape that car in 2012, hopefully. The car you buy in 2010, you want to have by 2020 or maybe by 2025, and you will be locked in an old-fashioned technology long after you should have been.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4961	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 27. [[See page 4021]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e4982	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4021]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5002	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4021]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5023	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5043	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4022]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5063	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4022]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5083	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4022]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5100	St. pp. No 70 for 2008-2009 refers to investments in the Defence. The purpose of this proposition is to ask the Storting to approve the launch of six new investment projects and to inform the Storting of any other planned projects and issues. This concerns the following: Approval of the cost framework for four new property, construction and construction projects, conversion of the HRF in the Pure Camp, upgrading of building 39 on Akershu’s fastening, command site of the Defence Operational Headquarters at Retan and Skold multipurpose hall phase 2. In addition, the approval of a cost framework for two new material projects, a new logistical and support vessel and land-based indirect fire support – artillery. And: Information on the modernisation of the Army, the LOS programme in Defence and the purchase of a leased coastguard vessel. The Committee assumes that the framework for the various projects is maintained and that the size is kept informed of the cost picture. The Committee notes that the conversion of the HRF into Rena clay includes garages, a kennel and the conversion of teaching rooms into offices. The project has a cost framework of 126 million. NOK and that the upgrade of building 39 on Akershus attachment has a cost framework of 121 million. kr. The Committee agrees that a logistical and support vessel represents a significant capacity for long-term operations. We stress that such a ship should not be a substitute for land-based logistics and maintenance bases, but a complement. The Committee notes that the project has a cost framework of 1550 million. kr with an implementation cost estimated at 80 million. kr. The Committee would stress that investments in making maritime defence mobile must not go beyond the already established bases in the north. The Committee considers that the purpose of land-based indirect fire support is to adapt Army artillery to future needs. We note the Nordic defence cooperation of the Government in this context. The Committee is pleased that the Government is in favour of a balanced industrial participation between Norwegian and Swedish industry in this project. The Committee notes that if cooperation with Sweden in this project cannot be satisfactorily implemented, Norway will start its own new acquisition process through an open tendering procedure. The project has a cost framework of 1 820 million. kr with an implementation cost expected to be 43 million. kr. The Committee notes that the experience gained from the Economic Project is to be taken into account in the logistics project and that this analysis has not been carried out. The Committee considers that this should be done before the conclusion of a contract for the logistics project. The Committee notes that the Ministry of Defence has only purchased ‘KV Harstad’ and that the purchase of the Nornen-class internal coastguard vessel is not currently applicable. Otherwise, the majority of the Committee, all minus the member from the Right, is satisfied with the importance of transferring major parts of the Coast Guard fleet to the Armed Forces' property, but funds for this are not prioritised in this investment proposition. The other parties will present their specific comments, if necessary, but I would like to make a few comments on a joint statement by the Progress Party and the Right. It's about 209 million. kr and for the implementation of a project for the new command site of the Defence Headquarters at Retan. We are aware that there was a majority for this move in the Stortinget, but the Progress Party and the Right assume that several of the decisions taken in the long-term defence plans are subject to a thorough dietary/benefit assessment and evaluation in the context of the 2010 state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5126	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5129	In the setting, the Progress Party writes that they are concerned that the ‘command centre of Jåttå is also maintained as a supplementary command resource’. What is actually a supplementary command resource? What's it really going to contain? I've questioned myself a little bit with people in the defense, but no one can give a good answer to that. But I expect the representative to know what it is. Is it true that neither the Progress Party is going to choose to reverse the merger between Jåttå and Reitan, as the Progress Party has previously flagged?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5136	We're not going to reverse anything. But we think a supplementary command is pretty important and good to have, because you don't know what's going on in the future. Putting down and removing the resources we have there doesn't seem to be right in the Progress Party. That's why we see that a supplementary command can be a good resource to have in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5141	Can't answer to what an additional command resource is? It could be very nice to know what that is. What we know is the situation on Jåttå, is that we have the Joint Warfare Centre there, with NATO's command. We also know that there are very tight shots between that and what is, and was, FOHK. Does the Advance Party want the Defense to drag it with us when we convert? We're not going to lay anything down, but we're going to keep the old one too, so we're going to have a double set of command resources. Should a double saw by most in the defense?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5148	No, we shouldn't have double-checked everything in the defense. But in the case of a part as important as a command center, we see an advantage of keeping the old one too. I'm not saying that there should be full activity on it, but that there could be activity on it if necessary. We don't know that need today, but it can come. That's why, in the Progress Party, we think it's stupid – had I almost said, but I'm not going to use that word, I can use another word, but you see what I mean – to take away all the good resources and everything we've invested here. We have it in case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5153	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5156	This is a very advanced meeting. So I'm going to be as short as I can. I just want to show that a number of times from this pulpit have voiced concerns about the defence economy. I believe that once our defense has become as small as it is, we must at least have the opportunity to train, practice and invest enough so that we get the maximum out of the structure we have. But almost every time we have a case, there is information that indicates that this is not the case – this time in connection with the tanks. I just refer to what is in the setting, and I want to point out that I believe that the next big thing here still gets a job. The balance we had hoped to get into the defense, I'm probably afraid that we're a bit away.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5163	The positive thing about this investment proposition is that he shows that the defense is able to keep funds available for the necessary investments in spite of the fact that we have moved DKK 1.6 billion from investment to operation. Nevertheless, the Council of State has managed to house so well with the funds that are available here, that there are still means to make the necessary investments. I found this to indicate that the defence economy is under good governance and is solid. That's what I thought we should mark as a leading point. Here's the means to invest. Then I thought we could have gone further than buying back the Coast Guard. But for all things, here's a positive move, we're on the right path and this looks very good. For SV's point of view, the defence should be owned by the Defense, not by the Private, and it is a fundamental principle. So I think we're in a good way to it. The start has come with this investment proposition, and we're going from the fall off.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5170	In this proposition, the Government asks for the approval of the Stortingen to start six new investment projects, and briefs the Stortinget on some other planned projects and issues. It is important that the facilities of Defence are in good condition, so that those working in Defence and those responsible for Protection have as good facilities as possible. Therefore, the Centre Party is pleased that four new property, construction and construction projects are now under way: construction of High Readiness Force in Pure clay building upgrade 39 at Akershus fastening command site of the Defence Operational Headquarters at Retan multipurpose hall at Skjold Phase 2 Otherwise, the Central Party takes the view that the Ministry of Defence has decided to purchase several of the Coast Guard vessels that the Defence leases today. Based on the offers received from the shipowner, only KV «Harstad» was definitely purchased now. This means that the purchase of the Nornen internal coastguard vessel class is currently not relevant. Logistics and supporting vessels constitute an important capacity for long-term operations. It must be noted, however, that such a ship must not be replaced by land-based logistical and maintenance bases, but as a complement. In particular, investments in making marine defence mobile do not have to go beyond the already established bases in the north. A new seagoing logistic ship must be built on the basis of ambitions to be able to be present in close Arctic waters, and not, as was the intention of some marine defence environments several years ago, to facilitate a larger part of the marine to operate more frequently in operations outside Europe. The withdrawal of the Arctic ice front in the north, likely new traffic controllers and through the Barents Sea together with Norwegian interests and responsibilities in these areas, suggests that the Defence also needs a better capacity to operate in ice regions. The central party expects the ship to be built for Arctic conditions in order to operate in parts of the Barents Sea and the Arctic, where Norway has and will have major interests in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5201	Let me first say that I'm glad that it's a unanimous defence committee that joins the proposals in the proposition, because this is all the projects that are important to meet the priorities and the defence structure that were adopted by the Stortinge a year ago. Just a few comments. First to the representative Samuelsen: in the case of logistics and supporting vessels, it shall comply with the wishes and requirements referred to by the representative. There is no doubt that this ship will strengthen the defence's ability to participate in long-term offshore operations in the north. It creates greater flexibility, but the ship will also be able to support important civil authorities, such as: in the case of natural disasters and used in emergency situations. I also record that the members of the Right and the Advance Party assume that several of the decisions in the long-term plan in the context of the 2010 state budget are cost-benefit assessments. To this I would like to point out that there were thorough dietary-benefit assessments on the basis of the adopted long-term plan. Secondly, these measures are now being implemented as closely integrated elements of the adopted plan. The size will, of course, normally be kept informed of the status of implementation and of any deviations if corrective action is needed. Therefore, I do not see the need for any specific dietary/benefit assessments in the context of the 2010 state budget. Then I also record a concern from the Right related to the economic balance in the long-term plan. This relationship was also thoroughly discussed and debated when the plan was adopted, and has been since. But I share the committee chairman's concern about the defence; we need to have a defence in balance. There shall be a balance between resources and the tasks to be undertaken. But again, that was what was done in connection with the long-term plan, and it will still require us to cope with the transition – keep pace with it – and be able to extend the defence in the way we have decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5214	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5217	The problem with the treatment of the long-term programme was not that no one had counted, but that the Storting was not really dedicated to these calculations. It's openness, which makes it possible for Stortinget to think either way, as I've requested – then you have doubts about the number base. Openness is now missing. So, even if the Council of State says that someone has figured it out – and that's probably true – the problem is that we haven't got it to Stortinget, and that's why we've asked for it. Would not this very desire for transparency lead the Council of State to think differently in this matter than the rather reprehensive answer she gave in her article?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5222	I tried not to be reprehensible in my post. I was just trying to say that we based the entire economy in the long-term plan on the calculations that had been made. And those calculations aren't just adding the Defense more funds, the 800 million. kr to be raised at the 2008 level is also based on the internal handling of the defence, inter alia. by means of some investments. The defence manager's plan was based on this, and it is absolutely right that it was not the basis for all the calculations. But this was a thorough work done in the department. Although they were not in the proposition, as in the defense chief's study, all these documents were made known. Well, I really want you to be open about this. I really think we have the same objectives for the defence, and that is at least good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5227	In dealing with the long-term budget last June, many economic issues emerged from the opposition. There were statements from the opposition that the estimates and the figures presented were not made. We never thought that the program could be implemented as it was from the Government. My question today, one year later, when the process of conversion has started well, is: are there any of the figures that we pointed out from the opposition last year that have proved to be wrong? Have you cracked using funds, or do you fully follow the plan?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5234	A little bit in the extension of my previous answer: When we discussed the long-term plan a year ago, the head of defense said that for the first time he saw that there was consistency between the economy of the plan and the measures that were in the plan. And all the new measures that we took, based on the Chief of Defense's study, were funded by his calculations. So it's also that if you do other things in a design phase, or new things, it often comes in addition. But we follow the costs and calculations that have been made, with the increases in costs or changes that may be necessary. But I would like to emphasise again that if we are to succeed in keeping this balance in defence, it requires the economy to be in place, and that requires the defense to make its transition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5239	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-four. [[See page 4022]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5258	St. pp. No 89 for 2008-2009 concerns amendments to the Regulation for Appendix etc. to prescribe compulsory ratings. The proposal for regulation is based on a recommendation for salary settlement between the State and the LO State, the Central Federal State of Professional Organisations, the Academics and the Unio Stat. On the basis of the wage bill for government employees, the primary remuneration for compulsory ratings is recommended to be increased by 3.8 pst. The additional costs are calculated at a rate of 16 million. kr. The regulatory changes have the same effect for the civil guardians, amounting to DKK 768 000 for 2009. A unanimous committee agrees with the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5269	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-five. [[See page 4022]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5289	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 4023]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5309	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 4023]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5329	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 4023]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5347	Document No 5 for 2008-2009 refers to the appointment of the Defence Committee on the Ombudsman’s name for the report of the Defence Agency on its activities from 1 January to 31 January. of December 2008. The Committee points out that the Ombudsman’s name in Document No: 5 for 2008-2009 raises a number of important issues and addresses the report. The Committee has also taken note of its commitment and initiative. The Committee, in consultation with the Ombudsman, has been informed that the views expressed do not necessarily share all the views expressed, and notes that, through its work, the Committee has identified a number of factors and situations which may have changed their status since the report was produced. The Committee sees the challenges of presenting the status and perceptions of the year before the report is discussed in the Stortinget, and thus does not show the status per. the time of submission. In this context, the Committee considers that it would be appropriate for the Ombudsman to organise the work on the report in order to identify in the report a status element showing deviations in the reported circumstances in which circumstances have changed. Furthermore, the Committee sees it as an advantage of the Ombudsman seeking to make conclusions and recommendations in a more concrete way. The Committee shall, on this basis, adopt Document No. 5 for information.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5364	In my opinion, when the Stortinget today deals with the Ombudsman’s subject of the defence report for 2008, it is a document that could have been better in the form. However, the denominator points out some aspects that I would like to comment on a little. I have noticed in particular that in the case of apprentices, there is ongoing and positive work to be able to offer further education and jobs. I fully agree with the mention that this is most required. I believe it is unfortunate that the defense still loses apprentices. I record that this is justified by pay terms and conditions. I also noticed that the denominator still points out that it takes a long time to get the safety clearance of the crews. I agree with the mention that this is an unsustainable situation and not a good case for both the defence and the person concerned. This is something the Working Party will look into. I have previously mentioned the case submission from the denominator and the unfortunate fact that it refers to episodes and received reports that are not supported. This may give a wrong view of the situation. These include: not be able to see if there is one or 100 persons making claims. I think this is unfortunate. I must also say that we must be able to expect the Ombudsman to use correct data in his report to the Stortinget. In this context, I would like to mention a relationship that is directly wrong in this document, and it concerns the fact that the defence has not reached 1:5 when it comes to the rotation of staff abroad. This has never been an explicit goal, and the denominator cannot therefore claim that this is a goal that has not been achieved. I am pleased that it is a unanimous committee that sees it as challenging that the denominator present the status and opinions of the year before it is dealt with in the Stortinget and thus does not show the status per. the time of submission. In this context, I would like to say that I am satisfied with the job that the rapporteur has done with the matter. It would be appropriate for the Ombudsman to organise the work on the report in order to produce in reports a status section showing deviations in the reported circumstances where circumstances have changed. The Defence Committee has only taken this document for information with clear recommendations on future changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5383	There is no doubt that the Ombudsman’s report addresses some heavy and important issues, some of which raise absolute concern. Some are known from the past, and have been part of the general political debate and the general defence debate, but there is no doubt that there are some realities here that need to be debated further. Now the committee received this report so late that we could have put it to the next big session with a good conscience. Nevertheless, we have chosen not to do so because, as we have seen from the two previous speeches, the Committee is in agreement on a certain concern about the way the report is presented. The fact that conditions are difficult and heavy means that they must be subject to a careful procedure even in Stortinget. It is then worrying that the Ombudsman and the Ombudsman have not taken a decision on all the facts they present. When the document does not take a decision, the Storting will have to do so if one is to base it on political action. It would take time and it would require – if we were to deal with the matter now – that we had had a comprehensive dialogue with the Ministry in order to decide which views hold and which do not hold. We have had a fruitful conversation with the Ombudsman. I think there is a broad consensus that it is important to take a position on realities to a greater extent than has been the practice so far, and that we are up-to-date on what has been done in the course of the year. And some of the things about which questions are raised are later settled. I therefore believe it is important that we continue to work on the very form of this, and I do not see any major disagreement as to which way this should take. So I want to say that our treatment, which is done in a few days' time, does not, of course, provide the many aspects that are referred to in their report, justice. Therefore, I would like to stress that it is important that the Storting has a look at this substance when, for example. the budget or other important matters are dealt with for the autumn. It won't be right to just put the matter in the drawer. It should be there as an important basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5396	Of course, I'm going to end up with the consensual committee, but we're going to be aware that 'obsess' is a special word, a special position, so even if we're not making any sense here that we'd like to have clearer conclusions, one of the roles of the ban should be to pass on, for example. claims – and they don't even need to be correct – to the Storting in a good way, and I thought the Ombudsman's subject and the message did. So even if we're going to change now, we're going to add leaders like the next committee to take over this, it doesn't have to be that way that they're going to be afraid to bring forward relationships, even if they're not clarified.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5401	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Thirty-nine. [[See page 4024]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5418	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5427	It's starting to become a practice for the Business Committee to get the last cases on the map on the second last day of the session, but of course we're not going to let it put any damper on this debate. The size shall now examine the position of the Economic and Social Committee on a proposal from the Left to conduct a professional investigation into cod-free areas. The Economic and Social Committee points out that, according to the proposers, more than 500 authorisations have been granted for cod farming, with a total production capacity in the industry of about 300,000 tonnes. The cod farming industry has experienced strong growth of between 20 and 25 pst. every year since 2003. Cod farming is a very positive and interesting further development of the aquaculture industry that has until now been dominated by salmon and trout. There is little doubt that this is a production with a high potential for creating new revenue and activity along the coast. But this is still an industry that is in the start-up phase, and profitability is under pressure. These challenges are so exacerbated by the financial crisis and its impact on the market for cod. The right is genuine in favour of the cod farming industry, and it is important that the industry has good framework conditions and a government that sees opportunities over limitations. Nevertheless, there are biological challenges related to cod farming as well as to other aquaculture activities. The recommendation refers to the fact that the Fisheries Directorate already in the spring of 2006 provided for stricter administrative practices which would have consequences for cod farming. However, at the time the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast considered that there was insufficient evidence to introduce stricter practices in the allocation regulation for other species, but also asked the Institute of Marine Research to answer some of the questions relating to cod farming and its consequences. The proposals of the Left then provide for the introduction of cod fjords as a temporary protection of the area in order to prevent the potential negative consequences of the rearing of cod and to await a deeper knowledge of the theme, and promote proposals for a professional investigation into such a cod fjord system. The Minister of Fisheries, in a letter to the Business Committee dated 26 March, points out that she shares the view that it is important to carry out an investigation of national cod fjords but that she announced such an investigation in Bergen already on 12 February. On this basis, the Committee considers that it is appropriate to await the technical investigations already notified and suggests that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol. So there's been a lot of debate earlier in this room about land protection as a measure against so-called genetic interference of farmed salmon in our wild breeds. There is reason to point out that land protection measures must be based on factual knowledge, not on symbolic policies. It is not unmistakable that more effective measures are available than passive land protection in order to ensure a sustainable cod farming industry. On this basis, I would like to take up the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party in the vote and recommend the unanimous recommendation of the Committee to annex the proposal to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5448	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5451	The question of national cod fjords has long been discussed as an instrument for limiting the damage of cod farming to the environment and not least to local cod stocks. New knowledge shows that the coastal cod is not a homogeneous group, but that, along our long-range coast, unique genetic strains of coastal cod are confined to a geographical area. Several of these unique genetic strains are disappearing, and we are losing hugely important resources that are particularly important to the coastal fleet. Cod farming is a relatively new industry in Norway, but it has grown at record speed in recent years. Since 2003, production has increased by 20–25 pst. each year, and production is expected to reach 30 000 tonnes in 2010. The environmental impact of cod farming still has more questions than answers. What we know is that 80 pst. of all cattle for rearing slaughtered have guttered at least once. At the Ostenvoll Research Station of the Institute of Marine Research, they have been confirmed that the breeding seal survives and evolves, but whether the breeding seal works positively or negatively on the wild cod populations remains an unanswered question. Breeding storks have also been xenophobic, as the migration statistics of the Directorate of Fisheries show. In 2007, 69000 breeding marshes escaped. In 2008, the number increased to 183 000. The Left is pleased that the Government is to assess whether cod fjords should be introduced and that other investigations are to be carried out with a view to increasing knowledge of possible environmental risk factors related to cod farming. I have noticed that in some areas the government has started the investigation work on introducing national cod fjords as a management tool, and that the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs will order new investigations. The left is aware that this investigation will take time and believes that until the knowledge is acquired, a restrictive distribution of new cod farming concessions must be carried out. In ‘New building blocks in the north. The next step in the Northern Region Strategy of the Government is to facilitate a national initiative on cod farming in the northern regions. The left shares the government's future-optimism for the breeding of cod, but asks questions at the pace in which the industry grows. For the Left, it is very important that a sustainable and profitable development of the industry is put in place. Today, those who earn money in cattle cattle are exempt, as the reality for most is that the cost of production is much higher than the price in the market. Therefore, in the view of the Left, it is very important to intensify the work to bring more knowledge to and about the industry. I am also of the opinion that, by pursuing a restrictive allocation and growth policy for cod farming until the environmental impact is known, efforts are being made to ensure that economic development can take place within a cost-effective and sustainable framework. The left considers that in the light of the knowledge acquired on cod farming, and the recommendations made by the Institute of Marine Research, the Directorate of Fisheries and the Regulatory Committee, we should introduce national cod fjords as a management tool. The left considers that this solution does not need to be permanent, as new technology and knowledge can lead to the non-recoverable damage of cod farming to the environment by the disappearance of unique strains of genetic cod. In its Northern Region Strategy, the Government has facilitated a national effort to breed cod in the northern regions. While the Government will invest in cod farming, the Government is tightening up by granting access restrictions, cf. Ot. pp. No 77 for 2008-2009, About the Law amending the Aquaculture Act, and has now opened up to introduce cod-free areas. For me, the government speaks with two tongues here. The left questions how the Government intends to implement a national initiative on cod farming, while at the same time giving access restrictions and entering in order to protect areas for cod farming. The left side is pleased that the Government opens up to protect coastal cod areas and believes that this will ensure the industry's long-term and sustainable framework, but those to invest in the industry need predictable frameworks. I cannot understand that this kind of double communication is good for the further development of the industry. I ask the Council of State to say something about how the Government will put up its large-scale investment in cod farming. I do not promote a proposal of my own, but as one sees the matter, we will support the proposal made by the Christian People's Party and the Right in the vote. Sigvald Uppøen Hansen had here taken over the president's seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5468	The President will correct it – it is a proposal from the Advance Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5471	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5476	The government believes that cod farming will be an important part of coastal value creation. Whitefish industry has had a heavy winter, but in the long term cod in farming could become an important complement to wild cod and enable European consumers to offer high-quality fresh cod throughout the year. Environmentally sustainable operations are essential for long-term growth and industry profitability. The fisheries management strategy for cod farming is knowledge-based, and in recent years we have invested a lot in research in this area. However, further development requires more knowledge of how cod farming affects the environment and wild fish. The government will contribute to controlled growth, in parallel with the development of technologies and knowledge that ensure a sustainable and forward-looking industry. The proposal for a representative proposes that the Government carry out a professional investigation into cod-free zones in order to provide knowledge of the need to introduce national cod fjords as an appropriate management tool. We think this is a good proposal, and therefore the Government already decided in February this year that such an investigation should be carried out. This was first launched by the Minister of Fisheries and Coast in Bergen on 12 February this year and is subsequently integrated into the Government’s strategy for an environmentally sustainable aquaculture industry. The introduction of national cod fjords, or cod protection areas, could be an instrument for protecting local and special strains of coastal cod. We have already introduced territorial protection that restricts farming in the past, to the protection of the wild species, through the introduction of national salmon fjords and salmon waters. The first round was promoted by the Bondevik II government, and the second round was promoted by the sitting government. Both proposals were adopted with broad agreement in Stortinget. The forthcoming study on cod fjords will highlight both the positive and the negative aspects of such a scheme and provide a basis for assessing the appropriate management action. In addition to the issue of cod fjords, we will give priority to research aimed at increasing knowledge of environmental risk factors related to cod farming, both in terms of impacts on ecosystems and on wild cod populations. This includes, inter alia: the mapping of spawning grounds and the monitoring of particularly vulnerable populations of coastal cod. It'll take time for us to put in place all the knowledge we want. Several of the investigations are large and complex and are likely to take three to five years to complete, but the administration will, of course, make use of the knowledge as it is generated. In the short term, we are in the process of tightening up the legislation so that the authorities can control the growth of the cod farming industry, among others. through amendments to the Aquaculture Act adopted at Laginget on 16 June of this year. Cod farming is still a small industry. Production in 2008 was below 15 000 tonnes. In comparison, we produced 820 000 tonnes of salmon. It will still take many years before the cod farming industry is a major industry, and the grips we are taking now do not intend to prevent the industry from growing and developing in the coming years. The work we do at an early stage in providing us with broad and good knowledge of how the industry affects wild fish and the surrounding environment will be crucial in order to be able to operate knowledge-based management in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5491	No one has asked for the word in reply. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5496	I should try to make this reasonable card. As this case has developed, I just want to do the right thing for the vote that we're going to go in for. We can't see that there's such a big difference – there must be very small shades – between what a collective committee thinks, that it's preferable to await the professional awards, and the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right that the Storting asks the Government to provide a knowledge-based management for cod farming. We do not agree with the comments made by the Progress Party and the Right in support of its proposal, but we will vote in favour of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5503	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40, 40. At the request of the Economic and Social Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 41 and 42 are going to be treated as one thing, and they're going to see it as a confirmation. [[Footing, see page 4024]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5534	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Progress Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. In addition, it is proposed to the Council of State for up to 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5543	We are discussing this night the last agricultural settlement in this four-year period, a period of great hope for businessmen. This may also be the last entry that will be treated here if the opposition moves into the government room into the house. I assume that each batch tells about its devices in this setting. The red-green government has delivered and used these four years for a spin-off that provides the basis for optimism and for the future for farmers all over the country. But there have also been major challenges and not least an enormous increase in the price of the most important inputs, such as fertilisers and power supplies, which of course has had the consequence that it has not been the increase in the revenue of year after year that we had arranged. However, we can now see that we have fulfilled the promises contained in the Soria Moria Declaration, which states that one should ‘safe agricultural income development and social conditions in line with other groups’. The government has provided the largest increase in income opportunities in many decades. An addition to the nutrient support of between 70000 and 80000 kr per. annual work is a lot. In addition, yesterday we received a decrease in interest rates — now it was yesterday — which is about 100 million. kr only to farmers, if the banks follow up. This government has twisted the input factor in a more environmentally friendly direction, has had a greater focus on animal welfare and has given farmers a much better basis for taking out vacations and leisure time, as well as the possibility of being sick if one is, through increased supplements to the exit scheme. The biggest changes in the dairy sector and the roughage-based meat species are in the agricultural agreement of the year. We want to use Norway, exploit the grazing resources, prevent regrowing and ensure that those who have milk production are paid for the job they do in going in the spring of 365 days a year. In this year's agreement, there are 560 million. government crowns and, during the hearing, trade unions indicated that they were largely satisfied. The rest is the possibility to take out income deductions and also something on price. But the dark cloud is the development of fertilizer prices. When an agreement is based on prognosis, and there are major deviations, there may be reason to adjust when the fasitis is ahead. The Government Party will protect the negotiating institute and sees it as important that agricultural organisations can negotiate with the State the prices of agricultural products and other decisions that are important for the industry. In this year's agreement, bovine animals are included in the so-called volume model. There are also indications that at a later stage, when the so-called yellow box of the WTO Agreement has reached the ceiling, one will place other productions there. But it would be an advantage for everyone if the Doha Round could be concluded and that we had a new WTO agreement in place. In a wide range of environments, the importance of agriculture is greatly underestimated. Bygde-Noreg would look quite different if agriculture were low. But pessimism has turned to optimism. The volume of production is slightly increasing, even though we as consumers are also using more. This is why we have a two-part task: to facilitate the trend that has turned around, to continue – that it is still growing – and to allow more people to enter the industry. New in this year’s agreement is to make economic measures visible to young people who will take over and to make young people want to enter the industry, also in the light of the global food crisis. We should produce what we have naturalized premises for, primarily cattle, sheep and milk. It will provide us with short-range food, produced by an agricultural industry that, in a world-class way, is ecologically motivated and motivated by good animal ethics, so that we consumers can eat safe food. Other things that are part of this year's agreement are ditching. It has been a neglected area for many years. For me, it's also important to recognize new cultivation. We see a deforestation of cultivated land, although we aim to protect it. With new cultivation, we can still almost fill in with new land if restocking of cultivated land is found to be necessary in order to bring about a social development in many other areas as well. I also believe that the Committee's comment that one should stimulate other methods of fertiliser is of great importance for a more environmentally friendly agriculture. So a little bit about the forest's meaning, both as carbon capturer, as fuel, and as our future fuel supplier. Second-generation biofuels, made of a renewable resource we have good access to, are forward-looking. We can reach our environmental targets without having to buy our produce to supply us with their food barrels. It is therefore very important that 50 million were seen. for actions in the forest in the action package. This is part of the extraordinary funds currently presented in the revised national budget, which otherwise includes an investment package of 150 million. kr. There is a great deal to be done by investment in agriculture, and the promises will benefit both agriculture and the construction industry. It is an estimate that the sum could trigger investments of about DKK 1 billion, so this will have an important employment effect. It is worth noting that this comes in addition to the urban development instruments Innovation Norway already has today, and that is a major problem. Let me conclude by saying that we still need to focus on using all the resources that a garden has, and to facilitate, for example. Nisjeprodukt and Gardtourism. ‘Inner’ with organised services in different areas is popular. In some areas of the country, large efforts are being made, contributing to increased value creation and local economic development. This year's agreement is a good deal, with a device that is more in line with the time we live in, and the challenges and opportunities that agriculture has.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5576	First, I have to thank the case rapporteur for her clear belief that this Chamber will change the majority after the election. There are several of us who have it, and there is no doubt that if there were to be a different majority in this room, there is something that agriculture will earn. For there is one sector in this country that has had enough of socialist over-management and detailed management, it is agriculture, and as this setting shows, the opposition parties have quite a number of structural proposals that will involve significant changes in agricultural policy. It's about time. We have had numerous debates on agricultural policy here in the United Kingdom during this four-year period. We have had the annual agricultural agreements, we have recently had a debate on concession law, soil law and odel law, but we have also had very many constructive and good proposals from the opposition. What these debates have shown is that the sitting majority does not think about new agricultural policy, and has not been open to new opposition input, constructive proposals that would have strengthened ownership, and that would have given active, productive farmers more power over the activities that they, after all, are going to live on. We still have a significant decline in the number of farmers, we still have a situation where the farmers depend on so-called ‘other groups’ incomes, and this shows, as in many other cases, that there has been a very long way to Soria Moria, and you're actually still very far away from getting there. It is therefore not right for the representative here, Mr Eng, to say so from the Chair of the Stortinge. What this setting shows is that the government parties are now using the last opportunity that is at this time of enlargement to vote against quite a number of good and constructive proposals that it is quite incomprehensible not to vote in favour. There is therefore a vote against proposals to go through the tax side of agriculture. Now that we have had four agricultural settlements where farmers' organisations have presented their demands and reached about halfway in terms of targets in each single negotiation, the tax side is something we should be able to look at, which could have contributed to higher incomes in agriculture. It signals the majority's desire that we do not want to give ordinary workers in this country, who have a tiring everyday life and who do their own business, tax relief and tax relief. Honestly, this majority that we have now, so far, has that opinion, but it's weak that you can't contribute to such an appearance. It has been agreed throughout this period of enlargement – in debates we have had – that there will be major changes in Norwegian agricultural policy over the coming years, and a new WTO agreement will contribute to such a significant change. A year ago, last summer, the Minister for Agriculture was absolutely convinced that this would be an agreement. Then we'll see what the future brings now. It is, however, quite special, when the whole of the Great Britain agrees that there will be major changes here, that there will be no proposals to promote a big message that can go through the whole of agricultural policy. The whole Stortinget could have been invited, and the organisations and others involved in agricultural policy could have been invited to contribute to shaping the agricultural policy of the future. Former Minister of Agriculture Gjønes should have much to say that the first Bondevik government did such a good job through St.meld. No 19 for 1999-2000. The big message that was then presented is a good piece of work, but it is now ten years old, and there have been huge changes in agriculture since then. Therefore, it is very weak that the Government and the majority of the Grand Duchy cannot take this opportunity. I think it's because the Minister of Agriculture and the Government doesn't know where they want to go in agricultural policy. We have seen that time has been used very poorly in these four years when it comes to making suggestions. You've used every opportunity to slow down and be negative. I have asked well over 150 written questions to the Minister of Agriculture in four years, and only received negative answers. There is no particular willingness to meet the opposition, among other things. by answering specific questions from individuals and entrepreneurs about things they experience in their everyday lives. We have had a significant debate on agricultural bureaucracy. There may be as many as 7,500 agricultural bureaucrats in the Norwegian agricultural administration, and that is especially when we have barely 47 000 farmers. This testifies – and we have said this several times during this period – that the Government has not taken the opportunity to develop an agricultural policy for the future. It is also an example of this agricultural situation. To stand here on the pulpit of the Storting and say that the Government has made the organizations satisfied and achieved the objectives of the Soria Moria Declaration, I think I must be quite incomprehensible to everyone. Because when the organizations have demanded twice as much as they have been granted during this period, we are quite a billion away from that goal. So let's do that. If agricultural organisations are satisfied with the results achieved, organisations have been running a trick game that is not worthy of our society. We have now received an investment package in the agricultural sector which has also been promoted through the revised national budget. The Progress Party will vote for the 200 million in that investment package tomorrow. We do that because we see that there is now a need for extra incentives in the economy. We believe that it can contribute to increased employment in rural areas. We will also demand that these funds be used to expand operational buildings in connection with new requirements for livestock regulations and that it contribute to structural development required by future agriculture. In that case, I will not help to keep this debate going, but will address the proposals on which the Progress Party either stands alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5597	The representative Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5600	Agriculture is an important industry for both the Norwegian people and the Stortinget. The right is behind the central objectives of agricultural policy. We want active agriculture all over the country. We want to maintain Norwegian food production, and we want to take care of the cultural landscape. However, it is also important for the Right that we pursue a good industrial policy for farmers – an agricultural policy that ensures that people who invest in this industry have the opportunity to develop in the same way as other traders in Norway. During this magnification period, particular attention has been paid to modernisation measures that make industry better equipped to face a future of greater competition, a future with a WTO agreement, a policy that is more forward-looking for agriculture. But before I come to the Right's many amendments, I would like to say a little pleased that a majority, consisting of all parties other than the Progress Party, believes that 'agriculture policy must be gradually modernised on the basis of today's arrangements with, among other things, market organisations, geographical differentiation in quota and grant schemes and the use of the customs protection area to enable farmers and the food industry to adapt to developments'. The fact that government parties are also involved in a note on modernisation shows that those of us who want a development through gradual reform are in the process of having a microscopic breakthrough also in the red-green parties. So that's what we're going to have to take with us as a little stage win. The right has great respect for the farmer, as for other traders. There are thousands of farmers who stand up early every day, who are working hard physically, and who are helping to achieve the important objectives set by the Storting for agricultural policy. It's important. I believe that whatever reforms you want to implement for agriculture, these must be based on respect for those who run the industry and who have invested a lot of time and money in farming around the country. It is therefore inappropriate for the Right to do anything other than contribute to the gradual modernisation of agriculture. Operators must have predictable framework conditions. The changes must be manageable. I think that the time is overdue to strike a blow for a slightly forgotten part of the agricultural industry, namely Norwegian sheep farmers. On the right, in advance of the settlement and in the setting, some attention has been given to the sheep industry in Norway. Life Finstad from Red Valgallianse in Oslo was quite historic when she made her comment in a TV show that «sows are eel-ridden animals». In my opinion, this was perhaps one of the better performances of the socialist side of agricultural policy. But in addition to being ‘wild animals’, sheep thus deliver excellent quality meat to Norwegian consumers, and the sheep is of great importance for landscape care and housing. Unfortunately, in Norway the sheep industry has been left-handed in politics for many years. The government and agricultural organisations have not had visible ambitions to develop this part of the agricultural industry. The production of lamb is on the waving front, and the industry is extremely small-scale. The problem is that the sheep industry has been a kind of alibi for the policy objective of varying usage structures. The grant scheme has expired, and it is characterised by an excessively strong structure profile. This means that the premium per sheep falls heavily the more animals you have, a device that prevents progress towards greater and more modern use. So while milk producers have organized themselves for the longest time in larger units and cooperatives, little of this has happened in the sheep industry. But there are some very interesting exceptions. For example, Vegard Birkeland in Sauda joined three other sheep farmers in Sauda and built a new, very sheepy farm last year of 1600 m2. It is planned that this poultry shall have between 500 and 600 winter-fed sheep at a time. I think the Minister of Agriculture and the Ministry of Agriculture should take a study trip to Sauda and take a closer look at modern sheep fever. In Valle municipality in the Setes Valley, the number of winter-fed sheep has halved in the last ten years. The effect is re-growth and reduced production. There are some sheep farmers who want to join together for a large co-operative poultry, also referred to as a sheep hotel. The problem is that prospective sheep farmers both in Valle and Sauda are being countered by the red-green government. The premium scheme stops short and well at 300 animals, leaving one of the most premium intensive productions without any subsidies when passing a medium-sized holding. Therefore, on 20 March this year, the right asked the Minister of Agriculture whether it was not time to change the arrangement and to facilitate the size of sheep as well. The answer was as usual that the Government invested in the transfer of more subsidies, but there was otherwise no sign of innovation and modernisation. The sheep industry also needs a lighthouse to show the way, which shows that it is possible to invest and invest on this part of the farm on a slightly larger scale. The right, therefore, promotes in the vote a proposal where we ask the Government to facilitate co-operation and greater use of sheep. Unfortunately, it is only the Progress Party that is in favour of this proposal. In the nations today, we see that the representative Ola Borten Moe is like the most central party people – not exactly concerned with developments in this part of agriculture either. Sauebonde Vegard Birkeland from Sauda, on the other hand, is more enthusiastic. He says, "This is sweet music in my ears." Norsk Sau and Geit confirm in the same statement that they have taken up the theme of the agricultural negotiations, but met deaf ears at the department. The farmers are also more forward-looking than the Government of Agriculture Policy. The right-hand proposals on modern sheep farming are quite representative of the proposals we are making in the milk production adjustment. It is also entirely in line with the idea behind the proposal for a new big message on forward-looking agricultural policy, which we have discussed earlier in this Chamber and which the representative of the Progress Party also mentioned in his speech. I have heard many in agriculture speak positively of the Right's wish for a full review and debate on agricultural policy in view of the future. There have also been signs of support for this idea from some representatives of the Red-Green parties, but it seems that the ability to rethink is dropped relatively quickly in the meeting with the League of Bonds and the Ministry, because no one supports this proposal by the majority in the vote. I find it sad that Norwegian farmers are being made tenants of today's property regulation. It is a paradox that owners of agricultural property should not have ownership rights in line with other owner-occupiers and owners in that country. Housing obligations, bans on sharing and price regulation are an old socialist system that impedes the development of the structure of agriculture and weakens the values of the farmer. Deteriorated ownership obviously results in a decrease in investment intentions and a corresponding decrease in development. The effect of property law is becoming very visible in Norway. There are 35,000 empty courtyards around. There are less than 50 000 active farmers, although there are almost 200,000 agricultural holdings. The rent fraction has probably passed 40 pst., without this triggering any signs of reform in the red-green parts. Even when research indicates that housing is useless as a district policy instrument also in the field of agricultural property, some react. It was almost to be thought that the legislation was more important than both the farmer and agriculture. Right will have a marked strengthening of the farmer's ownership, and we'll make suggestions about it in the setting. With regard to the agricultural settlement, the members of the Committee from the right shall make a change in relation to previous settlements during that period. Although we do not agree to this year's settlement, we do not propose replacing the entire settlement with a consultation arrangement. Nevertheless, the Right continues to consider that it is in principle a concern that individual industries negotiate their own framework conditions directly with the State and conclude agreements with significant financial implications outside the budgetary procedure. There are also other aspects of the agricultural policy and the negotiating institute that need to be considered. First, grants need to be more targeted and less bureaucratic than they are today. Therefore, the right considers that the periodicisation of agricultural production should be modified to follow the budgetary year. This will allow negotiations to take place in parallel with the budgetary process and to be seen in conjunction with other priorities of the State budget. To this end, the right is in favour of proposing that the agricultural policy should be shifted and should be part of the budgetary procedure for 2010. An overall opposition promotes many proposals that show alternative political responses to the government’s agricultural policy approach. The party of progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left stand, for example. proposals for the investigation of tax reliefs for farmers, for the decoration of co-operative legislation and for the development of the potential of niche and specialty products. The Progress Party, the Right and the Left are united on a number of other proposals that show the way in agricultural policy. There are still considerable differences now if we are to take seriously the proposals of the Progress Party, but there are still many good input from the minority and opposition in the vote, to which the government parties unfortunately are not. There is therefore every reason to conclude that Norwegian farmers will have good framework conditions and new interesting opportunities for development as entrepreneurs if developments become the same as the case rapporteur had said, that we will have a non-socialist majority on the Stortinget for the autumn. I would like to address the suggestions in this setting and in the setting of the reindeer agreement, which the Right has with others or alone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5679	The representative Torbjørn Hansen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5682	I'm going to use most of my posts on the agricultural agreement, but at the end I'm going to talk a little bit about reindeer management, which I understand is being treated now. First of all, I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Eng, for a well-worked job. I join very much of what she said, and I will try to complete a little bit. The discussion of the agricultural agreement is one of the most important debates in Stortinget. You would like to think that it was treated at some point other than when you were going to lie down and sleep, but you have to do the best out of it. I've been in and out of this debate for eight years now, and what strikes me is two important things. One is the big change that has occurred from the previous period to the previous one in terms of agricultural investment. The second is that the two major parties on the right hand side of Norwegian policy are voting against the agricultural agreement. I think when we're going to the election campaign and we're talking to people, we're going to notice that these parties are voting against the agricultural agreement. What does that mean? Well, that means that you don't want political governance over this important industry, where you can help you produce food across the country, on all the food fields – and not just produce food, but produce safe and tasty food. It actually requires political governance if you are to do it in such a way that you produce enough milk and the different varieties you need, and make sure that you have at all times an offer that is adapted to both what we have from natural resources and what is demanded of the population. It requires political governance. If it's an industry we're also going to keep the tab very high, and that's going to have a very strong political anchor in the Storting, it's just agriculture. I would like to mention a few minor issues in the Committee's comments. The first is what goes on in youth. This year’s agricultural policy has focused more on young people than before. That makes SV very happy. We think you have to take it more seriously with recruitment than what you've done, so you get your youth into the industry and stimulate them so they find it interesting to go into the industry. We are very happy that you have come further in this settlement than you have done in the past. The second is that you focus a lot on this with grazing animals. We know that Norway grows again. We know that grazing is one of the most ecological things you can do. In some areas, the sheep industry has become demanding because of the predatory situation. Then you have to consider whether there are other types of animals you can use for grazing. That is why we are pleased that a majority in the Committee has also pointed out that we need to look at this with ammonia as a good alternative in areas where it is demanding because of predatory animals, and seamen also elsewhere in the country, so that we can make the best use of the grazing resource. That's good considering that the country won't grow again. That's good, because we're exploiting a resource that's lying there. It's a very organic and right production. Then go to the reindeer industry. It's also a very important industry. The sewerage industry itself is the foundation of our indigenous people, together. It is therefore necessary to have political governance over the industry. Overgrazing in Finnmark has been criticised for the eight years I have followed in this hall. I record it going in the right direction. You'd want it to go faster, you'd have come further in terms of the number of animals compared to the number of pastures. But in the last two years it seems like it's going in the right direction. That's what I think is very happy, and I think it's important to focus on it further – that you don't relax, but make sure that the grazing grounds are consistent with the number of animals. Finally, it is also gratifying to see that an agreement has now been reached with the Swedes on the common grazing area along the cold. It was unworthy that for so many years we had an unexplained situation, not least for reindeer workers. There were no clear rules on where Swedish reindeer and Norwegian reindeer belonged. As a result, the reindeer operators faced a difficult situation. I now register that this agreement is in place, and I think it is very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5701	During the 2005 election campaign, the Government Party promised a whole new course in agricultural policy. It has not happened. The government's agricultural policy is largely a continuation of the Bondevik II government's policy. I'm glad. The Christian People's Party does not have any problems supporting the main features of the Government's agricultural policy. We are also pleased that it is possible to arrive at a declaration to which farming organisations have joined. The Christian People's Party is reasonably satisfied with the size of the overall framework of agricultural agreements. Last year we pointed out that in future we must have a better balance between price support and budgetary means than was the case in last year's figures. The Christian People's Party appreciates this to some extent being followed up this year, with 560 million. kr of the overall framework as a means of budgeting. Budgetary resources are important, first of all, to provide less use with moderate production that is less beneficial to price support than to use with large production. This will also facilitate the achievement of the important objective of agricultural policy by maintaining a diverse use structure. Secondly, the use of budget resources provides less cost for ordinary consumers and for Norwegian economy aggregates. Thirdly, increased use of budget resources is more in line with developments that we have to deal with in order to meet future WTO obligations. The Christian People's Party stresses that the cost development of agriculture is still making the income situation necessary. We point out that there is still a need to step up transfers to farmers, with emphasis on greater budgetary commitments and better investment and welfare arrangements than in this statement — not least in view of the possibilities for re-employment to agriculture. Christian People's Party supports the volume model for market regulation for cattle, pigs, sheep and eggs. At the same time, we point out that sheep make up 20 pst. of the total domestic production of small ruminants, and sows account for approx. 8 pst. of pig meat production. The removal of sheep and sows from regulation may have adverse effects on the average prices of lambs and piglets. The Christian People's Party expects the ministry to take note of this, so that one can review it in the next debate on the basis of experience. The Christian People's Party suggests that the Government assess a softening of the co-operation rules so that flexibility is increased and the possibilities for a diverse and versatile usage structure are improved. The Christian People's Party also asks the Government to evaluate the strengthening and extension of the sheep-holding system so that the possibilities for flexible and varied forms of operation are increased. Finally, I would like to address the proposal that the Christian People's Party is all about in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5718	The representative of Ingreigt S. Sørfonn has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5721	We have witnessed quite a lot of misery descriptions from the Right Party and the Progress Party in this debate so far. I would like to start by saying that in the previous period, the total income potential – if you add up the price increase and the subsidy – was between 300 and 400 million. NOK, while the figure in this period, including the last settlement, is NOK 4.3 billion. So it's a significantly increased amount. That gives rise to increased optimism, and we see that. It is a decent agreement that is on the table today. I want to start with what is joyous, and that is the consensus that has been reached on the market organisation. This is a basic plan of Norwegian agricultural policy with which we will live for decades and perhaps for generations to come. The biggest defect in this agricultural agreement is, in my opinion, that we did not now have a common quota ceiling and common rules for co-operation and single use. This leads to some structural challenges and to some hopeless debates, as we have seen here tonight, where some people want to discriminate against single use and co-operation. This is actually a debate on what structural profile you want. Norwegian agricultural policy is based on three elements. It is the customs protection, it is the direct transfers, and it is the internal market and the regulations that are there. At our national meeting, I went into attack on the Progress Party because they are going into frontal attacks on all three basic pillars of Norwegian agricultural policy. Over time, they'll build up customs protection. They halve the transfers in half a year, and they want to deregulate the internal market mechanisms. At the latest today, there is a proposal which basically seeks to remove the quota arrangements on milk. The consequence is obvious. There's a collapse in the market. It's ruined for tens of thousands of families and many ruined lives. The centre party can do nothing but draw people's attention to the consequences of this policy, and then make the autumn elections decide. But it is not easy to say that the policy of the Progress Party will lead to better conditions in agriculture. Both the Right and the Advance Party are concerned that economies of scale and efficiency are the future – more capital intensive operations. The big paradox is that it is precisely these uses that depend on an active agricultural policy, it is those that depend on subsidies, it is those that depend on market organisations and customs protection. The first thing to come out of this, if we are to implement the policy of the Progress Party and, in part, of the Right, is exactly what they want. Then we have to look ahead and look at the challenges facing us globally. In the last year, we've seen large importing countries renting land directly in Africa. You no longer trust that food is to be bought, even if you have money. We have a climate crisis, we have a food crisis, and we have a financial crisis. For Norway, this obviously means that we have to grow more food, we have to have cleaner food, and we have to have better food. In short, increased sound self-sufficiency. This will require more debate on Norwegian agriculture and food policy in the future — not less. The question about a new agricultural message has been asked. I believe that, for our part, we have an open relationship with the need for a new agricultural message. There's a lot of evidence that it might make sense to go into it. In that case, there's something that we'll come back to the autumn. Key challenges ahead: the environment and climate will become increasingly important for agriculture. My hope and ambition is that Norwegian agriculture will position itself so that it becomes part of the solution – just as the ministry mentions in the submitted climate communication. An obvious challenge in the future is continued profitability, recruitment and investment in industry. Here we see that a lot has happened in the last four years, but we depend on that development to continue. The problem of tenure and property policy is important. It's not like there's no change. The size has asked for a closer look at the ban on sharing, and Stortinget has also said that the price level of agricultural property should be raised. Lately, I would like to say that legitimacy is something that Norwegian agriculture is very dependent on. This means that all the objectives of Norwegian agricultural policy have to be met. I am optimistic on behalf of Norwegian agriculture, but it requires that we get a correct election result for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5745	I would like to start by giving the case rapporteur credit for a good job and a clean process towards this position that the Business Committee has presented to the Stortinget. I also deal with the proposal on which the Left is on its own, so that it is already done in the introduction. I would like to start by stressing that the Left has the tradition of voting for agreements negotiated between the State and various organisations related to wage-fixing, social security and agricultural settlement. That is why we will also be voting in favour of this agreement. The left wants to continue the agricultural negotiations, but as a pure income agreement between the farmers and the state. All other grants and arrangements should be transferred to ordinary government budget items and decided and decided in open discussions in our elected democracy, not in closed negotiations within the corporate system. I am very sceptical about the financing of the farm settlement for 2009 and believe that the limit has been reached for how much of the revenue can be collected in the market. The price fixing expectations of the 2008-2009 agricultural agreement were unrealistic. It is quite amazing – I would actually say historically – that the parties agreed on an increase in the price of bulk meat of NOK 1.10. It's historic because the state's offer was zero, realistic enough, I would say, and the claim was NOK 1 – and then you end up with a result over both. Yes, this is the case when the League of Bonds and political leadership are more concerned with reaching an agreement with good numbers than with the content. It's election year this year, and then it has to look good on the paper. I have the same comments about the fall in fertiliser prices, and the 200 million. kr that is within the scope of the revised, which is included as part of the agricultural agreement — that is part of the business package for the rest of the world. It is important that farmers are treated with respect and that what is achieved through the agreements is as real as possible. It requires honesty and honesty. The settlement for the fourth year would give the farmers 17 000 to 18 000 DKK in income increase per year. annual work. The result was a sharp 1000-note. So political leadership travels around with curves showing an increase in income that goes right to the worst with this government, while the curves presented to the previous government are faulty and unfavorable. I think that's very regrettable. We have to be honest and honest with the numbers we're presenting. In this connection, I would also like to comment on the post for Ola Borten Moe. He refers to the massive increase in gross income during this period of government. Yes, of course it ends tomorrow – when this government stops comparing with the previous government. After all, we must take account of the price and cost developments that are in any period of time. That's what you're left with — between costs and gross income — that matters, and that's what you're going to live on. So it's not possible to compare the period with the period in this way. It's going to be all wrong. Then we also see that Nortura has great challenges in meeting the prices that are expected, so it's quite unrealistic what's here. It's very positive that a unanimous committee is in favour of volume model. I would also like to say that there is a positive impact on grass-based production – and in this respect also the increase in the grazing premium. So a few words in the end about co-operation, where we want to get a better and more flexible regulatory framework than what we have today. In the end, we are happy to encourage increased production and slaughter of reindeer, and that this has been reinforced in the current reindeer agreement. It's positive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5766	The representative Leif Helge Kongshaug has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5769	This year's reindeer management agreement has a framework of 101 million. kr. That's an increase of 4 million. kr in relation to the last year’s agreement. In the case of the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, it has been important to facilitate the maximisation of slaughter and the proper marketing of reindeer meat on the market. Overall, the reindeer management agreement of the year provides for a stronger focus on business activities and for the organisation of reindeer operators with a main activity. A central basis for the Government's agricultural policy has been to strengthen the incomes of farmers and to facilitate active agriculture throughout the country. We have. This agreement continues the price change that was started on settlement in 2006. It balances important considerations in a demanding economic situation. It gives income development to farmers, prioritises rural livestock management, maintains the competitiveness of industry, and minimises the impact of prices on consumers. Despite an international food and financial crisis, which has given rise to cost growth and instability, the Government has provided improvements in the means of income, which we must return to the 1970s to find the husband. During the period, an increase in income of about NOK 73 000 per year. annual work. If productivity and cost growth estimates turn up, agricultural incomes in our government period will have approached other groups with almost 10 percentage points. There will always be uncertainty about budgets and forecasts, but we have also shown that we take responsibility if the deviations are in the disfavor of agriculture. This year, the basic material showed that the 2008 accounts were weaker than the previous year’s budget had shown. It's compensated. The agreement also continues the principle we established in 2007 by not financing the savings framework for the current year. These are system improvements that provide long-term safety for industry. And the security of the framework conditions is important in the turbulent economic situation we've been, and is, in. The end of the boom and the international food and financial crisis have made the job challenging. The costs have increased. The price variation seems to be increasing. Forecasts change significantly faster than we've been used to. It has, among other things, have been questioned by both the interest rate forecasts and the reduction in fertiliser prices of 25 p.m., on the basis of which the agreement concluded between the parties is based. In this context, it is therefore gratifying to inform that the joint purchase and the Norwegian Yara report today that the price of fertilisers is reduced by between 30 pst. and 40 pst. of 17 June. If this level of prices persists, there would be clearly better conditions for the industry than what was actually the basis for the agreement being negotiated in May. Although Norwegian agriculture is less affected by the financial crisis and economic turbulence than some other industries, and less than agriculture in other countries, the need for stability in the framework conditions is more increasing than decreasing. That is why I am very pleased that a joint committee supports the choice of the so-called volume model as a future model in the meat and egg market organisations, if further development so requires. This approach, which the Committee expresses is both important and forward-looking, is the best answer the Storting can give to farmers who are to bet for the future. Stability is a good thing for small enterprises with vulnerable economies. Farmers are self-employed with a need for long-term planning. Both the establishment and implementation of the agreement contribute to this. The agricultural agreement strengthens the means of active agriculture throughout the country, as promised in the Soria Moria Declaration. The agreement prioritises milk production and grass-based livestock farming in rural areas, where alternatives are lower. The grazing system is strengthened and contributes to an open and beautiful cultural landscape. During this ageing period, the grazing scheme has increased by a total of 400 million. kr. The increase in budgetary resources in the year’s settlement is greater than the sum of all budgetary changes since 1990. So we are giving priority to the objectives. In addition, we propose an exceptional investment package for 2009. This will have a rapid employment impact in the construction industry, for projects are already planned and are being treated by Innovation Norway. In addition, the framework for loans with interest rate support is increased by 300 million. kr. Youth is a priority in several schemes. In addition, the change in the market organisation, which contributes to the stability and reduction of the economic risk for young people who are to invest in the industry, will be added. The agreement also strengthens environmental measures, and agriculture has been positive about strengthening the climate work after the enlargement message I have promoted in this area: the climate challenges – agriculture part of the solution. This Communication also addresses the enormous challenge facing us globally – ensuring enough food for everyone. Already today, almost 1 billion people are starving. Within 40 years, global food production needs to be doubled. The only joint and sustainable solution is that all countries make use of their production resources. This year's agricultural agreement is an important step in ensuring that we take our share of responsibility in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5792	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5795	Since this is the last line change in this ageing period with this Council of State, I would like to thank the Council of State for many good debates during this period. But I have to say that both the agriculture ministers from the Central Party we have had this period have been very little in favour of the opposition to agricultural policy. We've had an innumerable Document No. Eight proposals, we have had questions, interpellations and a reasonable number of proposals for the annual agricultural agreements that could have contributed to significant changes and improvements in agriculture. Could the Council of State be so honest now that he can admit that he could have been more responsive to the good suggestions the opposition has made?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5804	I would also like to thank the representative of Kielland Asmyhr for many good debates. There have been many interesting debates and exchanges. What is clear, however, is that the debates have been marked by major ideological and political contradictions. That's why you also have the opinion in the opposition that you haven't been attending enough from the government. The government has been on its policy. We are responsible for a policy that ensures agriculture throughout the country. We stand for a policy that ensures good income development opportunities. We stand for an agricultural policy that is across what the Progress Party stands for. That's why the result has been that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5811	Agriculture is an important industry where there is quite a dynamic development every year, and it is an industry that has a very strong challenge in relation to WTO negotiations in the future. To mention something that has characterized governance during this period, there must have been a total absence of interest in implementing agricultural policy reforms. Subsidies have been unilaterally involved, and there has been no interest in reforms. If you look at the setting today, you can see that it is full of good suggestions. We record that some representatives from the government parties meet us a little bit when it comes to some of these proposals. I have not registered such goodwill from the Government in relation to the agricultural negotiations. It's e.g. proposals for a report on agricultural policy. This government has not made such a big message — nor has it announced such a message in the future. There are also a number of other proposals – on joint ventures, on property law and on taxes and taxes. Is the fact that the Central Party does not really have a plan for the future of agriculture in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5824	I totally disagree with the representative Torbjørn Hansen that this government has not had plans, and that there has not been any progress in agriculture during this period. For all the four years we have been responsible for the agricultural settlement, we have implemented it in a way that has brought the income development forward – a total of NOK 73 000 on average over the period. There's a 10 pst curtailment. in relation to other groups. This has benefited agriculture, by giving priority to grass-based livestock – especially the sheep industry, on which the representative Hansen was involved in his speech, and on which he wrongly said was not bet. Something else we've been working on is property policy. No major changes have been made to property policy since the 1970s as those made in the last few years. And the last thing that has been done is a big big message about the climate challenges, where one places emphasis on the challenges of agriculture, the opportunities of agriculture and agriculture as part of the solution for climate action – in line with the climate agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5831	Things have changed very quickly – because the financial crisis has taken place in areas related to agriculture. I'm thinking, for example. on the forecasted meat deficit in the year to come. My tip – even after conversations with Nortura – is that there is reason to believe that a person might be in balance during the year. We have also recorded that major actors in the processing industry – such as, for example: Nortura - it's hard to get the ends to meet. It's because they don't get out of the market what they expect. It's still the same price to the manufacturers, and then the margins are too small. In this year's agricultural agreement there is an expectation of 290 million. kr in market withdrawals. Does the Council of State think it's real, in the situation we're in now?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5838	I very much agree with what Mr Kongshaug here describes as some developments we have seen recently, and that the financial crisis affects the situation in the industry. But at the same time, I would like to stress that the agricultural industries, globally, are of the least affected industries, especially in Norway, where we have a system that ensures future development and balance, through the systems that we agree in annual negotiations. In the case of the 290 million. kr, which has been forecast as part of the income development in agriculture, we believe it is realistic. It is in line with a proposal from the agricultural organisations, and we think it is possible to take it out. What is important, on the other hand, is that we have rarely invested as much in budgetary resources as in this agricultural agreement – higher than in many, many decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5847	Let me first arrest the Council of State for the claims he made in his reply to my previous reply. He tried to give the impression that the opposition does not want agriculture throughout the country and does not want agriculture to have an increase in income. It is appropriate to note that the number of farmers has been reduced by approx. 10 pst. under this Government. The opposition parties Right, Advance Party and Left have agreed on the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to make a complete review of the competitive situation in the food chain and to make the distribution of the value creation between the different stages of the chain visible.’ All the time we hear from the peasant organizations that the farmer is the one who is left with the least. Why is the Senter party voting against such a constructive proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5860	I think it's right, as the representative of Kielland Asmyhr says, that you want agriculture across the country, and that you want income development. But then one must also look at the consequences of the policy proposed. When the representative of Kielland Asmyhr, who represents the Progress Party, repeatedly proposes billions of dollars, 6-7 billion dollars in cuts in transfers to agriculture, it will be a disaster for agriculture in the future. This will not mean agriculture throughout the country – it will involve major centralisation and structural change, which we do not agree with from the government parties. With regard to the competitive situation in the food market, there is sufficient basis to consider this. However, such studies have been carried out before, and one might need to look at them a little bit more closely before going on with the proposal that the opposition has made here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5867	I want back to the sheep team. That's probably what the Council of State says, that the subsidy to sheep teams has increased in this period. But what hasn't changed is the device and structure of the grants. It's a fact that if you have more than 300 sheep, the meat production that might be among the most dependent on subsidies ends up with zero in grants. This makes it an effective blockage for anyone who would think of starting with a slightly larger scale sheep pack. It is obvious that sheep meat production in Norway will take place to a large extent in the future, even in very small quantities. But I think that this industry had benefited from someone leading and showing that this was a business that you could bet on properly, and that could give a whole year's work. And there's someone who's trying out this business. What makes the government so reprehensible to change the support system, so that you can get a lot of sheep in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5874	I think it is very good that the representative Hansen now realizes that a great deal has been done in the sheep industry in terms of transfers, and in terms of the development of income. It is that part of agriculture that has had the greatest income development in the last four years, and it has led to great optimism in the industry. Substantial efforts have been made in this industry in recent years, including in the last agricultural settlement. No one from the government is opposed to large joint ventures in the sheep industry. What we're opposed to is making arrangements to include a scalable element in the subsidy system that makes a person act as if he's small on the grant form, but large in size.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5881	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5884	I will present this year's reindeer management agreement, which is a good deal for the reindeer owners, with a framework of 101 million. NOK, which is an increase of 4 million. kr in relation to the last year’s agreement. I thank the Committee for working together on this setting, which I experience has followed the same pattern as before, and so far has been a good job. Purity is at the heart of a positive economic development overall, which is primarily related to increased slaughter withdrawals and a significant improvement in the price of reindeer meat. But reindeer is still facing major challenges. There are still considerable differences in economic performance in the industry between the various grazing areas. The compensation for work and equity amounts to NOK 356 000 per year for South-Trendelag and Hedmark. annual works, while the equivalent for areas in West Finland is down to NOK 92 000. This says something about the need to change the operational arrangements. There is too much reindeer in some areas and terriblely low slaughter weights, and it may seem incomprehensible that the reindeer in these areas themselves are unable to grasp it. But the government has done that – first with proposals for new law, adopted in Stortinget, so full pressure on the process of launching the new organization. This year's agreement is the second after we got a new reindeer management law, a law that dramatically changed the internal organisation of reindeer operations, made sure that reindeer owners are held responsible for the balance of the reindeer with the resource base, and clarified the responsibility of the state to intervene when this is not properly respected. The process of changing the organisation and management of reindeer operations is under way. The development of usage rules and the setting of reindeer numbers is a priority task. Both the process of establishing criteria for an ecologically sustainable clean-up, and in particular the fact that management, in cooperation with the industry, was aimed at this work, are new in the management of reindeer management. One has developed a good dialogue with industry and a common understanding of the challenges facing one. The deadline for the districts to submit implementing rules is set at 1 July 2009. It's in this area that I believe the opposition is missing in its criticism of the Government. This is a process to be anchored, which must take some time. Here's a lot to change. This has to do with traditions and culture, but the government has prioritised and put in place the law and follows up the work on internal organisation, rules of use and a top reindeer with firmness and authority. We'll eventually get a reindeer that has ecological, economic and cultural sustainability. It has a high priority. In my view, the proposal for a big message in the middle of this falls on its own unfairness. Now it's working to make the new regime work that needs priority. Then, in my view, it is relevant to raise the question of an evaluation of the work that has been done, and in that context, the question of a new monitoring report on reindeer management can be a relevant issue. It's not the time of the majority and my view now. I recommend that the setting be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5905	I see in the proposition that, in addition to some changes, the reindeer management agreement with production-dependent grants from 2003 to 2004 has been continued. In addition, the Government has introduced a specific scheme for West Finland, a grant to replace the calf-slaughter and early slaughter premium, in order to try to reduce the number of animals. It's such a big bet that it goes over a whole year. It specifies the objectives of the reindeer management policy and chooses to call it a sustainable reindeer management based on ecological sustainability, economic sustainability and cultural sustainability. It is easy to surround yourself with great, fine words, but is a glorifying word like ‘sustainability’ according to reality? Then I would like to point out that I know that there are major local and regional differences in how the practice of reindeer operations actually takes place. Ecological sustainability for reindeer management means that it is largely related to what nature is able to produce from grazing resource base. In western Finland, over 30,000 animals have been lost for a long time, with the result that the grazing resource base disappears. The western dimension is at risk of becoming a high mountain desert, while the government claims that ecological sustainability should be the starting point. I don't know where the government will, but using words like "organic sustainability" while the government doesn't have the ability to clean up in a situation where the entire ecology is at risk of breaking down on the western horizon, is tragic – both for ecology and for industry. Economic sustainability shall be another supporting element. Economic sustainability means that an industry is able to stand on its own feet and operate economically. Is this the case in the reindeer industry? The industry as such has an annual gross turnover of approx. 320 million. kr. Half of this, or about 160 million. kr, are values in the form of meat price, processing, etc. The rest are state subsidies that are driving, and increasing the number of animals, this makes the government disappear at the same time as the whole of ecology disappears, and the last bit is compensation payments for the loss of animals. Weak Simlars get too weak calves, which in turn have little chances of growing up, and replacements increase. This is called economic sustainability. I almost have to ask, is it so that the Storting should take its role seriously, or are we going to relate to approximate parodies? It might be interesting if we were dealing with the reality and the real problems that the industry has, and starting from the areas where the industry labors the hardest. In an area with an excessive number of animals, it is ecological and economic madness to continue systems that directly cause more animals to grow. This kind of policy will end up with the fact that no one can live from reindeer drift on the west in a reasonably near future. Today’s regime and policies are helping to increase the problems in industry rather than solve them. As far as the western dimension is concerned, you should convert to more stationary reindeer rather than the nomadic that we have today. Look at what Sweden and Finland have done, and look at the slaughter weight there, it's not going to be much to understand that reforming today's regime is absolutely necessary. The question then arises: will the industry and those who have converted to make money on today's failed subsidised schemes be entitled to cope with such a conversion? I guess the answer is the same as it would be in the fisheries. If each fisherman is to determine his own quotas, we are to clear the sea. The same is true of the reindeer industry, not so as to understand that the sea is being emptied, but the west could be empty of animals and become a wasteland if we do not change the policy in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5922	I take the floor in all annual debates on farming, because agriculture means so infinitely much for food production, for employment, for living rural areas, and for our cultural landscape – yes, for the country as a whole. Without agriculture and living settlements, Norway would have looked different. Yeah, I think it would look pretty sad. I myself live in a vital agricultural area in the northern part of the country, and I want to express my enthusiasm that we have a living agriculture also in the north. Of course, we would not have had this without the involvement of the state and without the means to make the job possible for all the skilled farmers in agriculture who stand on every single day. When the Progress Party and the Right want to throw down this whole important agreement, this shows, in my opinion, how little these parties know what agriculture means in all parts of the country and how much the differences are in operational terms. The Progress Party and the Right, with their policies, can have no objective of an agricultural activity throughout the country, nor can they be so concerned that it is going to be a living village. According to the magazine Nordlys, County Svein Ludvigsen in Troms has called for a boost for agriculture. This has been done by the county because he sees the great importance of agriculture in Troms, and for society else. I share the County's view on this, but it is not possible to lift agriculture without the fact that we still have a strong government involvement, and that we have the tool that the agricultural agreement involves. I am pleased that this year we can also deal with an agreement that is the result of a negotiated and agreed result. Together with other red-green representatives from the north, I raised the need for increased frameworks for agricultural investment earlier this year. We did this both because we see an increasing investment in agriculture after we got a red-green government, and because this could quickly create jobs in construction. Many have plans ready for their construction projects and can quickly set foot in the earth. I am very pleased that this is now coming into place. I am also satisfied that there is agreement on a commitment to equality and recruitment in this year's agreement. Personally, I believe that the best recruitment measure for agriculture is that professionals have income that makes it possible to live on, and that the social framework is in place. This can only be ensured through the framework of each year's agricultural agreement, and this government has followed up. In a world where 6 million people die of hunger every year, there should be no need to discuss whether the community in a rich country that Norway is going to have co-responsibility for agriculture. Of course, the state must have such co-responsibility, and of course the industry must have the right to negotiate with the State the framework for participation. Pure and healthy food is the most important thing for mankind. We can't change that or we can't decide away from it. With an expected population on earth in 2050 of 9 billion people, it must be in everyone's interest to take care of both the food and those who can and will produce this food.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5937	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5940	In 1974, State Council Treholt returned from the UN meeting in Rome under the auspices of the FAO and said that Norway had to strengthen agriculture, shift the diet to more cereal products instead of meat in order to take the world’s difficult food situation seriously. We got St.meld. No 32, Nutritional Notice, 1975, Hitra Action in August 1975, St.Gröttingen Stepping Decision 1 December 1975 and the legendary St.meld. No 14 from 1976, cultivated more land – strengthening Norwegian self-sufficiency. We got a green wave, youth got a hope for the future in work on soil, agriculture – using soil, gaining solar energy, photosynthesis, green fingers and caring for animals. Today, the most important thing is similar to 1974: the international food crisis, about 1 billion people starve, the Irish presented their "Hunger Task Force Report" to the UN last autumn. But much is also very different from the 1970s: strong population growth, hundreds of millions more mouths to satisfy, warmer climates to give great crop variations, far more widespread spread of viruses and infection on plants, animals and humans, much more population living in urban areas, less knowledge among people most about the production and processing of food. Therefore, the situation is much more serious now than it was in 1974. Participation in the UN Conference confirms this. In 1986 we received the mandate of the so-called Uruguay Round in GATT. The point was new international trade rules for food that would result in lower production and away with a dumped market at prices below sea level. However, no one believed that the reality of the Uruguay Round and established legislation would continue to be practised in 2009-23 years later in a food shortage. The WTO must have a new agricultural mandate. Minister of Foreign Affairs Støre has traveled a great deal and has seen that national leaders want to feed their own people as much as possible. In our country, however, people can travel to the store every day and buy what they need for the next day. So most people don't feel vulnerability. The red-green government has made a positive difference to the former right-wing government. But what about the hope of a good life, with farm work for the biologically interested youth? The hope of social respect through cohesive economic conditions, as we got in the 1970s, is not yet lit. A new national policy is needed to take seriously the international food crisis. The framework conditions for agriculture must be strengthened on a broad front. We need to strengthen import protection, build Norwegian agriculture on plough chills, not ship purchases, assume that Norway is a small country of agriculture, have a profitable grazing where predators play second fiolin, reduce the market power of food chains for the benefit of the food industry and farmers. At all: we're in a crisis. This gives hope, because the established truths have to be reconsidered. The centre party must be in the front to chisel out the new future course. No parties in this room have a greater responsibility to succeed in giving young people hope for the future. Family ownership and love for soil must be the basis for the new policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5955	At the bottom of the debate, I really feel no need to sum up. The positions are well known. They're the same as they've been for the last four years. But the opposition has said in different words that as we sit in the government offices, so far at least – we hope that we will continue with it – are a little forward-looking and changeable. That's why I want to say that in the Labour Party we have an agricultural group where we have a lot of discussions, so a little bit of innovation can get a little bit of insight into the opposition. We want a future-oriented industry across the country based on both national and international agreements. We need to make the new market mechanisms work so that they are adapted to the WTO agreements to come. We want to focus on animal welfare and food security, but we also listen to what people are busy about – people who have dirty nails and do the day-to-day job. We've been recorded on quotas, on leasing quotas, on co-operation, in terms of numbers and distances. If co-operation can be used for other purposes than meat production, that is what we are discussing. Then we have clean and safe food. But we are still out there that there are even more controls to be introduced, without going through and seeing if some of the costs that result in having so many checks on pretty safe goods have their price. We must be critical of this. I found, for example: that it seems unlikely that it is the farmer who is going to subsidize the bowling keel by 38 million. kr. We have to be able to find that somewhere else. It may not be their marketing arrangements, where they pay a levy, which is to pay it. I am pleased that the Council of State focuses on agricultural bureaucracy. I see the clock is going. I've decided that the last thing I say from this pulpit – I'm going to join what Lundtigen said – is that I'm concerned about the future-oriented agriculture in much of the country, in the light of the practice we have after the predatory settlement. We've got a lot of tearful stories about everyday life for people who live in such districts. We have to get better at respecting our food producers and taking out pests. If we're going to be happy with the predatory management, we're going to have to get better at all areas and spend a little more time building it up. But I'm optimistic about agriculture. There are many who have a future—so I thank you for me, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5968	Since it's decided that we have two issues in the same debate, I also want to do the reindeer justice, so I'll say a little bit more in this post. I am concerned that we have a sustainable reindeer operation. I'm concerned that we have a reindeer that takes care of the nutritionists, who rate on the economy, but not least on reindeer farming as a culture. When the representative Fredriksen claims that the policy we have today has failed and failed and uses strong words to characterize this policy, I just have to stress that I disagree very much with it. Recently, we have introduced a new reindeer law. It is responsible for the reindeer management in relation to sustainability and to the reindeer numbers in the various grazing districts. Now we're starting to see results of that. It takes some time to make it work, but we see that the results are coming. We are currently discussing a reindeer management agreement that stimulates higher withdrawals of slaughter animals. We also see the results of this. I would like to stress that the latest figures we now have in terms of purity in Finnmark show that the number of animals has fallen by 7,500 from 2008 to April 2009. The decline is distributed in such a way that there are 4,300 animals for West Finland and 3,200 animals for East Finland. It's a reduction of 4 pst. – not so much, but important because it signals that policy is now starting to work. I would also like to stress that the policy that this government has now implemented in the field of reindeer management will, hopefully, be even more pronounced in the future. Then there will be more sustainability. We're on it, but we'll get further.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e5989	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 41 and 42. [[See pages 4024 and 4025]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e6009	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4027]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e6029	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4027]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e6049	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4027]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e6069	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4028]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e6086	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4028]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e6103	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 4028]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e6111	The increase shall now amount to a vote on cases No. 2–48 on today’s map – case No. 1 is already past it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e6118	During the debate, Torbjørn Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the Government to take the initiative in the liquidation of Aker Holding so that the State becomes a direct shareholder in Aker Solutions ASA.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e6137	I pressed correctly, but the lamp didn't light up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e6142	Then we're going to vote again, and we're going to get this right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e6157	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals No. 3 and 4, from Per-Kristian Foss on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1 and 2 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e6190	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 4, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e6230	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's – the proposals No 1-3, by Carl I. Hagen, on behalf of the Party of Progress and the Right – proposal No. 4, by Carl I. Hagen on behalf of the Progress Party The vote will take place on proposal No. 4th from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to amend FOR 2000-12-21 paragraphs 1379: Licence requirements for medical students and for healthcare professionals over 75 years of age so that older doctors who are able to carry out their profession properly are licensed irrespective of the extent or nature of their activities.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e6251	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 3 from the Progress Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to change the municipal economic structure in such a way that the paying municipality for nursing and nursing homes is also granted the state subsidy for these users instead of the municipality of residence.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e6273	There is a vote on proposal No. 2 from the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the state grant to new care and nursing homes is allocated to the municipalities irrespective of who builds and owns the buildings as long as it is the municipality that disposes of them for 20 years.’ The Christian People's Party and the Left have announced their support for the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e6671	During the debate, Mr Kjønaas Kjos put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e6706	During the debate, Robert Eriksson put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘I The basic amount of the population’s money is set at SEK 74 080 with effect from 1 May 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e7723	The vote will take place on the proposal by Martin Engeset, on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by the meeting of Odelstinget on 5 June 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to authorise the Labour Inspectorate to decide on the selection of the course organiser for the tasks of the Environment Protection Ombudsman and the Safety and Health Commissions if, on the basis of a reasoned quality assessment of the course content, the employer does not accept the organiser’s choice.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e7742	There is a vote on the proposal by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by the meeting of Odelstinget on 5 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for an approval system for the occupational health service that is industry-specific.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e7761	There is a vote on the proposal by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by the meeting of Odelstinget on 5 June 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to propose that the protection officer be given the right to appropriate training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e7780	There is a vote on the proposal by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by the meeting of Odelstinget on 5 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose the removal of the age limit in the Act and that there are only ordinary conditions of dismissal which could lead to termination of employment.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e7799	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Martin Engeset, on behalf of Mr Right, submitted by the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 5 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for solutions to the recruitment challenges as well as the cost and administrative consequences of the proposal for gradual compensation for inconvenient working hours’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e7817	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, from Line Henriette Holten Hemdal on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, from Gunnar Kvassheim on behalf of the Left. There is a vote on proposal No. Three, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e7847	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e7865	There is a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e7886	The Christian People's Party and the Left shall vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e7901	During the debate Line Henriette Holten Hemdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e7930	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Andersen on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 9 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to appoint a technical selection to go through various technological solutions that can provide a safe and more secure transmission of power in vulnerable natural areas in the future. The government is requested to present the recommendations of the sample to the Storting in an appropriate manner by 2011 at the latest.’» Votation: The proposal of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left was not accepted by 51 votes to 47. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 03.03.08]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e7948	There is a vote on the proposal of the representative of the Grandfather Ivar Kristiansen on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left sent by the meeting of the Odelsting on 9 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up guidelines for the transmission of cables in the central network which allow for increased use of earth or sea cables in conflict areas and where alternative cables can reduce the level of conflict and the burden on the environment.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e7968	The vote will take place on behalf of Mr Andersen, representative of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, sent by Mr Odelstinget on 9 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose clear guidelines for the cost allocation between network owners and electricity producers for the development of new network triggered by the obligation to connect.’;» The right will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e7989	The vote will take place on behalf of Mr Andersen, representative of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, sent by Mr Odelstinget on 9 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up legislative proposals to clarify whether an investment in new power generation is socially viable.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8008	The vote will take place on behalf of Mr Andersen, representative of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, sent by Mr Odelstinget on 9 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up proposals for a network policy that does not burden individual regions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8027	The vote will take place on behalf of Mr Andersen, representative of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, sent by Mr Odelstinget on 9 June 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the competitive outsourcing of the operation and maintenance of the mains power supply.’ The right will support this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8047	During the debate, Mr Lien put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8072	During the debate, Peter Skovholt Gitmark put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8098	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Tord Lien on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelstingen on 9 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up an action plan on knowledge building on the nature diversity work in the municipal sector.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8117	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Tord Lien on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelstingen on 9 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to implement a system for the import of plants that better manages the risk of introduction of alien species and, where appropriate, to return to the Stortinget with the necessary legislative changes.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8136	The vote will take place on the proposal from Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right, submitted by the meeting of Odelstinget on 9 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring proceedings against the Storting with a view to strengthening the rights of landowners to compensation in matters of protection and expropriation, and requests that the case be specifically investigated to extend the right to compensation by repurchase value, that there be no discrimination between different forms of protection and that the economic loss be measured according to market value.’ The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8157	The vote will take place on the proposal from Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right, submitted by the meeting of Odelstinget on 9 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to bring proceedings before the Storting with a view to strengthening the rights of landowners in the proceedings on matters of protection and expropriation, and requests that, in the case in question, in particular, the right of redress be investigated, to impose on the State an obligation of offer and a time limit on the temporary protection.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8176	The vote will take place on the proposal from Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right, submitted by the meeting of Odelstinget on 9 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case on the practice of bonding and redemption of property relating to planned road projects. The case shall in particular clarify the rights of property owners and the time-limits and procedures that must be put in place to avoid undue burdens on individuals on behalf of the country when projects are being drawn out on time.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8196	The vote will take place on the proposal from Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right, submitted by the meeting of Odelstinget on 9 June 2009: ‘The government is asking for a case to be brought forward by the Government to adapt the law on motor travel in the outland so that municipalities are given increased authority - within national guidelines - and where the experience of the pilot project with increased local autonomy is taken into account.’ The Progress Party has announced that it will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8559	The vote will take place on behalf of the Progress Party, on the proposal of Mr Henning Skumsvoll from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 June 2009: ‘A derogation relating to the limitation period shall be introduced in connection with the establishment of a new entitlement for soldiers who have served foreign operations, in order to become applicable from 1978, and the rights of those who have served from 1978 shall be treated as equivalent to those in force from 2010.’;» The right, Christian People's Party and the left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8580	The vote will take place on behalf of the Progress Party, on the proposal of Mr Henning Skumsvoll from the meeting of Mr Odelstinget on 8 June 2009: ‘A system with a maximum compensation of 65 G shall be established at 100 pst. long-term acquisition disability. The substitution is proposed to be reduced proportionately with the residual segregated capacity.’ The right, Christian People's Party and the left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8601	A vote shall be taken on the proposal of the representative of the Grandfather Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 8 June 2009: ‘Promote objective liability for injured veterans under new Section 12(b) of the Defence Personnel Act shall apply to all defence veterans, including those who served before the entry into force of the Act.’; The Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left have announced that they will support the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8636	During the debate Torbjørn Hansen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate knowledge-based management of cod farming.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8665	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, from Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 2 and 3, from Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8690	Alternatively, between the Committee's position and the proposals No. 2 and 3 from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8820	During the debate, 25 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-4, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 5-12, from Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Party of Advancement, Right and Left proposals No. 13-18, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 19 from Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left Proposals No. 20-22, by Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, on proposal No. 23, by Torbjørn Hansen on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 24, by Ingreigt S. Sørfonn on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 25, from Leif Helge Kongshaug on behalf of the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8862	There is a vote on proposal No. 24, from the Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to assess the strengthening and extension of the sheep-holding arrangements so that the possibilities of flexible and varied forms of operation are increased.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8876	There is a vote on proposal No. 23 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The budget requires the Government to adjust the periodicalisation of the agricultural settlement to follow the calendar year and to enter into negotiations as part of the budgetary process. The establishment for 2008 is continued as a transitional arrangement for the second half of 2009 as amended by the Revised National Budget 2009.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8891	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 20–22, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8920	There is a vote on proposal No. 19 from the Party of Advancement and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the cancellation of all production regulations if the processing is carried out on its own farm.’ [[such as milk quotas]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8935	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 13–18, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e8984	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5-12, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e9044	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-4, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e9279	A vote will be taken on the proposal by Mr Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr on behalf of the Progress Party submitted by Mr Odelstinget's meeting on 4 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to carry out a full review of the role, functioning and objectives of the Sale Act and to promote this for the Storting.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e9299	A vote shall be taken on the proposal by Mr Torbjørn Hansen, on behalf of the Right and the Left, submitted by the meeting of the Odelsting on 4 June 2009: ‘The government is asked to design a national legislation that provides municipalities with a high degree of flexibility to set their own living limits.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e9318	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Ingreigt S. Sørfonn, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, submitted from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 4 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for specific measures and a compensation scheme for men born before 1965 who are victims of the repeal of Section 78 of the Law on Noble and Liability.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e9337	A vote is taken on the proposal by Mr Alvhild Hedstein on behalf of the Left from the meeting of Mr Odelsting on 4 June 2009: ‘The government is asked to design a national legislation that provides municipalities with a high degree of flexibility to set their own living limits.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-18.ana.ud66e9444	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed.
