ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e49	The representative Finn Martin Vallersnes, who has been on leave, has once again taken up his seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the morning meeting, if necessary, continue beyond the regulatory time, at 5 p.m. 16 until today's map has been processed. – No objections have been raised to the President’s proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e71	At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Work Party 30 minutes, Progress Party 20 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e82	I would first like to thank the Committee on Patience and Flexibility for the rapporteur, as I have been sickened in the last eight weeks, and have tried to manage the process long distance. A good team effort from alternates and advisers has also made this possible. Nevertheless, or for all I know, perhaps for that very reason, the committee has had a very tidy and factual examination of the matter, and there is a great deal of agreement after a constructive effort by all parties. A significant process was in place prior to this survey: the reflection project on series of articles, book publishings, debates and public meetings, both the trade unions and the public, were active and involved to a greater extent than in the past. It's positive. We still record that some found the process more exciting than the message itself. The government can benefit from appropriate ways of continuing the openness of foreign policy thinking and work shown by the reflective project. At the same time, it must be done in such a way that such extensive ministerial and non-parliamentary processes prior to a deliberation do not end up with meaningful production rather than with real debate. A comprehensive picture of foreign policy is given only if one looks at St.meld. No 15 for 2008–2009 in the context of a number of other messages, such as: St.meld. No 13 for 2008-2009, on development policy, and St.meld. No 10 for 2008-2009, on corporate social responsibility, offl. This Communication contains a very good substance, not least for those concerned with globalisation, international trade, cooperation based on international driving rules, migration and the EU. In its position, the EEA continues to focus on the link between foreign policy, climate, environment and energy policies. The message is marked by forward-looking optimism and is solution-oriented. This is quite remarkable as the notification is presented at a time characterised by international crisis and recession. Therefore, several realism andprecautionaryness are required when the reporting trends are to be extrapolated into the future. An almost overall conclusion of hearing bodies and commentators is that the notification is strongest in its descriptions of developments and issues of how globalisation and geopolitical change challenge Norway’s interests in a changing world, as well as the principles on which the priorities should be based, more than in the application of the same principles to interests and to political content. There is also a more realistic picture of self-esteem than perhaps parts of Norwegian public opinion and debate — especially the left-hand side — have previously taken place. The rhetoric around concepts such as the ‘peace nation’ and the ‘ humanitarian act’ has been significantly reduced. This has been further reinforced by the Majority's treatment with a high degree of consensus within the Committee. Some words about overriding interests and priorities: The Committee has agreed in its opinion that the central objective of Norwegian foreign policy should be to safeguard Norwegian interests, by systematically seeking to promote the welfare, security and political values of the Norwegian society at the root of society. The Government has presented two simple priority principles for resource use and external action: the importance and relevance of the Norwegian society and the ability and ability of Norway to make a difference. The Committee agrees. However, as one might expect, the application of these two principles is the most difficult one and therefore the weakest one. Nevertheless, it must be appropriate to focus on understanding and exploiting those of Norway’s national characteristics where we are big and can make a difference in international policy and economy. I would also like to comment on a number of points that have been important to the Right in the handling of the message. Right is pleased that the Government focuses on Norway as one of the world’s most marked globalists. Norwegian welfare is increasingly dependent on the outside world, free international trade and framework factors that are, in effect, far beyond the borders of Norway. Norway has benefited greatly by participating in the international economic interaction. International integration in such a perspective is primarily an opportunity to get more back on their own initiative, not a threat to Norwegian jobs or living standards. This view has been important to continue and strengthen in the treatment of the Storting. The government’s explicit opinion that the issue of Norway’s relationship with the EU is not a matter of notification means that the communication becomes incomplete in its ambition to outline and prioritise Norway’s interests in a changing world. To the right, it is considered impossible to carry out such an exercise without actually concluding on the EU issue. We will come back to that issue later in today's debate. The relationship with Russia is a central framework for Norwegian foreign policy and social development. The asymmetry may seem overwhelming, but needs to be remedied by facilitating the integration of Russia into the multilateral framework and through our own clear anchoring in the West. The right has gone beyond the rest of the Committee in pointing out the challenges in relation and how the development of parts of Russian social structure shows that the relationship does not necessarily only develop positively. The closer the neighbourhood policy, the greater the need for anchoring in NATO and the EU. I recall the old saying that Russia can be compared to a big sailor: the crew and the sailing can vary over the generations, but the direction of the shot and the targets are still the same. It underlines our need for a long-term strategy, which must be reflected in foreign policy in the form of realism and firmness. The message and the setting are clear and positive about NATO. The right is perhaps a little bit surprised, but I'm glad that the committee is standing together on such clear formulations of the alliance and the transatlantic relationship. We still believe that the analysis of the development of the alliance would be even stronger if one had also gone deeper into some of the challenges. This will include, inter alia: in the overall statement of the opposition on the burden-sharing in Afghanistan. Developments indicate that we will face major challenges in the international work on human rights, in particular in the United Nations system, and increasing visibility of the conflict lines on value issues. It is important to counter radicalised global conflicts of values and identity, while at the same time being a strong and clear voice for liberal justice democracy and fundamental civil and political human rights. The dialogue bar opens itself to new dilemmas, and the opposition has signalled an uncertainty about the value of the human rights dialogue if difficult questions and controversy are not addressed in the forums where they can be. I would like to repeat an expression I've used on several previous occasions: it's about standing up for what one believes is right, but then one has to stand up as well as it seems. This fall I choose to leave the Stortinget. It has been a privilege to work these eight years in the Foreign Affairs Committee with educational and interesting tasks, both in the community and individually. Several things that are significant, and as I would like to emphasize, I have already mentioned in the article. Let me end by mentioning a couple more, which is constantly taking me seriously. One is our limited ability to see the long-term consequences of our policies. In spring 2008, we discussed a rough example in an interpellation on food prices, biofuels and land grabbing in Southeast Asia – good intentions, but gloomy results locally. The solution to these kinds of challenges needs to be more knowledge and transparency of different inputs and broader opinions as a basis for policy-making. In such a light, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has shown one way to do so through the Reflex project. In my view, it has to be developed further as a method. The second is our attitude towards those who are different and different from us; it is cultural, religious, ethnic or political. If we are to dampen conflict-provoking drivers, it is necessary, as mentioned, to be visible on the values we defend, but at the same time show tolerance and arrogance-free interest in the existence of solutions other than ours. One of my best memories from this room is an interpellation with the Minister of Foreign Affairs about how we in the West have had a performance in the East and the Middle East, which can explain the anti-Western attitudes and after each act we meet. In this context, it is exciting to follow President Obama's policy and the desire to reduce the contradictions between the Western and Muslim world. Quite a few – not so few – of the problems we face internationally have emerged from an increasing and driven awareness of such contradictions. In this area too, the Western countries must stand together. If one succeeds, it will be demanding for the other party, and it will be at least as demanding for ourselves. President Obama has demonstrated the ability to settle past missteps, such as: The coup in Iran in 1953. We can only hope that such a liberalism combined with a firm will to defend our own values will impress people in those countries that define us as opponents. On this team, I hope to see Norway as an active co-player.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e129	If nothing happens specifically in the last few days, today I participate in my last big debate after almost 16 years at Stortinget. It's not sad, it's a little special. It is a good conclusion to be the main figure for the Workers' Party in the treatment of the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy. A big message on this topic we haven't had in 20 years. It's an important event. Let me begin by thanking the case rapporteur, or perhaps perhaps the correct deputy case rapporteur, for a good job of resolving the Committee until the present position. I would also like to start with an assessment of the overall position of the Committee on Foreign Affairs. There are differences, but there has probably never been such broad political agreement on the main lines of Norwegian foreign policy. It is a strength for Norway, and it is a strength for the Government to implement the policy. Initially, I would also like to highlight the Government's preparatory work to St.meld. No 15, a comprehensive and engaging process that has provided a wide range of input, opinions and analyses and stimulated an open and inclusive debate on foreign policy issues. The Government shall be commended for that. When the basis is good, the design is best. As mentioned above, 20 years have passed since Stortinget had a similar review of Norwegian foreign policy. At that time, the situation was characterized by more traditional and transparent power structures in the shadow of the cold war – in a way simpler and more predictable, but not desirable. At that time, Norwegian foreign policy was shaped more from the point of view of security policy, not to say military security policy, assessments as one of the NATO countries bordering the Soviet Union. The background today is not without a security policy dimension, but there are far more and more complex challenges we face. Climate challenges and the internationalisation of trade and the economy can be examples. Globalisation and geopolitical changes form the backbone of the formulation and priority of foreign policy. At the same time, it is more difficult to distinguish between domestic policies and external considerations. Of course, interest has been the basis for foreign policy up to the present time, but the Government has invited the Stortinget to re-examine the concept of interest as a basis for strategic priorities. The size agrees with two fundamental considerations: to determine the importance of the interests affected by a given development or case, and to determine the relevance of Norway as an actor and the extent to which Norway can make a difference. This means emphasis on areas that are important to Norway, and where we are at the same time playing a role internationally, such as energy, maritime industries, the North and Russia, engagement policies and contributions to global organisation. Furthermore, foreign policy cannot be confined to narrow national self-interests, but the principle of extended self-interest must apply. To this end, there will be, among other things: global prevention of conflicts and poverty and threats from climate change. The awareness of the international framework conditions and our interests is essential for navigating Norwegian foreign policy. Let me comment on some policy areas in the setting, which will be complemented by other speakers from our side. The financial crisis has created a new agenda. The policy now talks from left to right about the need for financial market governance, regulation and control and the fight against tax havens. We welcome this. At the same time, I would like to stress that Norway will not benefit from increased protectionism in international trade conditions. I would also like to underline the Norwegian model of society as a contributing factor for Norway's favourable position with increasing globalisation, and it has proved robust in an open international economy with a high degree of productivity and adaptability. I'm a little surprised that the Right, Left and Advance Party did not join a note to focus on employment, social protection and decent work criteria among the measures taken against the financial crisis. The struggle for 'decent work' is global. The Labour Party also considers that the right to organise and to conclude collective agreements must be incorporated into future negotiations and agreements, so as to include the prohibition of discrimination, child labour and forced labour. The northern regions are the main strategic focus of the Government. Climate challenges, energy security and fisheries resource management have increased visibility and weight in the north. It is about presence, activity and knowledge-building. From the time of the vote, I would also like to point out that the Committee asks the Government to investigate the possible consequences of significant maritime traffic across the Arctic Sea for Norway. Russia and Norway have common interests in the northern regions. We need to further develop good bilateral cooperation between our two countries. Russia must at the same time be involved in dialogue and cooperation in multilateral forums. But cooperation should not deprive us of the opportunity to be clear in criticism where we believe Russia is not fulfilling its international obligations or its obligations as a member of the Council of Europe to respect human rights and freedom of expression. Although today’s safety challenges are more complex, traditional military security still applies, both for their own territory and for efforts with allies in other parts of the world. The Labour Party continues to regard the transatlantic alliance as the most important security policy anchor for Norway, but we will also emphasise the link between security and defence cooperation in the EU and cooperation with the other Nordic countries. Norway has an interest in an international legal order and international driving rules which are just ahead of power. That is why we have been a strong supporter of the UN. However, I would like to stress the need for and the need for reform in key parts of the UN system in order to make the organisation more relevant and effective. At the same time, this challenge is reinforced by the fact that one will ensure better representativeness and confer influence and power on the UN system. This issue is also reflected in the attitude of the work on human rights and democracy, where changes in the representativeness of UN bodies provide a renewed basis for conflict and tension on value issues. My answer is that we must be there and participate and defend the fundamental universal human rights principles. I am therefore pleased and have expectations of Norway's entry into the UN Human Rights Council. The work on human rights must be a taboo for Norway in engagement policy because it is the basis for peace, development and combating poverty. All parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, support the principle of a United Nations-led world order. I have to ask the Progress Party why? What is the alternative? An increasing number of areas have a European dimension. EU connectivity is not a topic of the biggest message. The Government uses the existing form of association through the EEA Agreement and other agreements between Norway and the EU. I just want to point out the importance of the EU to the entire Committee and that it is in Norwegian interest to have close and close cooperation with the EU and EU countries. We agree that the Government and the Storting must have an active European policy. And I would like to add: until anything else is realistic, the EEA Agreement takes care of vital Norwegian interests. It has been described as well as well by both the EU and EFTA on several occasions as well functioning. The contract has the possibility of influence and influence in important areas, which must be used. We must not talk down on the importance of the EEA Agreement, even though several of us believe that participation in EU policy-making would better safeguard Norwegian interests. Then we will see if developments in the future regarding Iceland's road choices and the evaluation of the EEA Agreement, as requested by the Committee, provide the basis for a new debate on the form of association and membership of the EU. Finally, I would like to highlight the latest developments in Nordic cooperation and the positive opportunities for closer security and defence cooperation in the Nordic region, not as an alternative to NATO, but as a complement. We live in a changeable time, where nations and individuals have to deal with rapid changes. In uneasy seas, you should have ballast. With the strings of the UN, NATO and close cooperation with the EU and the Nordic countries, I would say that we can hold a tough course in Norwegian foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e167	I will also first be allowed to congratulate the rapporteur, and also the rapporteur's deputy, who has managed the Committee in an excellent manner throughout the process. The terrain was potentially quite demanding, but I think the result has been very good, and that one has managed to sew the committee so well together, is an important quality. The Storting Communication, which is the basis for today's debate, is a good document if you want to understand the challenges facing Norwegian foreign policy. It describes a complex reality, attracts important challenges and brings the reader into the world that Norway actively needs to deal with. Many issues and dilemmas are being discussed and problematised, and in many ways the reporting of gross domestic product delivers very well. There may also be some reason why the setting is as consistent as it is. A consensus on security policy challenges, the North and relations with Russia, to mention something very important, is a significant strength for Norway as a nation. I'm going to choose to focus on the points where we might miss something, or look at relationships differently. Where's the big shot coming from? It attracts challenges that we as a nation face, but in our opinion is far less good at defining an overall strategy. Norwegian interests are a comprehensive theme, and we nod to that. However, it is challenging to sharpen these interests when almost everything can be – and in part – defined as Norwegian interests. Narrow Norwegian interests are almost rejected as a concept, and instead we are included in an interesting journey where everything that meets us on our way is, or may become, Norwegian interests. Of course, you can argue well about how everything is related to everything, and even the most remote issue can have a link with Norway. But it's not that everything is equally important for the Kingdom. Some relationships are more important than others, but which? There are few or no replies to the message. Where does the Government think the main priorities for Norway lie? The Communication discusses the challenge of prioritising. There is some mention of priority criteria, but there is no attempt in the notification to say what are the Government's priority areas. This government has done a good job of opening up foreign policy as a topic for debate. Many good initiatives have been taken, not least in the course of this big message. But if you shield the strategic overall priority debate of the enclosed spaces, there is no important dimension to debate. If you read the message, there is no need to cover the issues, and you can't expect that someone, nor the Norwegian Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Foreign Affairs, will be able to follow everything up as intensively over time. It is not that it is desirable either. For example, many initiatives and good agendas are being worked on in different multilateral forums, and Norway cannot be in the driving seat of all. We may well be able to leave some good initiatives to other countries, and I know that that is the reality. I know that this is what is done, but this is what the message says nothing about. Instead, one can almost get the impression that without the active role of Norway, the work of a fairer world stops. Norwegian peace diplomacy and peace engagement have been given a major place in Norwegian foreign policy, and a more peaceful world is to the most extent a Norwegian interest. Disarmament and the abolition of class weapons and landmines are important work, with broad support, while other work is more sensitive, such as direct peacebrokering. Norway, with its peace exposure, has decided to play an important role. It seems read and decided that Norway is good at peace, and we would like to export and share this. We allow ourselves to ask some questions about this. Is such an attitude on Norway's advantage as a promoter of peace based on knowledge? Does Norway have specific prerequisites for resolving conflicts? Is Norway’s role as a conflict resolution particularly successful? Our approach is that we shouldn't exclude taking on engagement as conflict freers, but it has to be based on having special assumptions to do just that. It must also be done on the basis of the principles we are trying to comply with. So let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's see, let's Did Norway have the necessary knowledge and resources in such a conflict to make a difference? Because it's nice to engage, but a government commitment of this kind must be based on something more than idealism. That is why we are promoting a proposal asking for an evaluation of the Norwegian peace operation, and this knowledge will be the basis for our assessments in the future. Human rights are a sensitive issue, and with Norway's entry into the UN Human Rights Council it is not lacking in challenges. Here too, it will be dilemmas. Norway has often opted for an isolated issue of difficult human rights issues, or a bridge builder role, which the Government itself likes to mention – while many Asian and African countries act reasonably coordinated in their attempts to weaken human rights. How lucky it is that in these situations Norway does not focus more closely on, for example: EU country or Canada? In comments, the opposition comments that Norway has chosen not to protest the execution of human rights activists in China, as the EU has done. Over time, a bridge builder’s role may also be misunderstood or perceived as indelible. The Minister of Foreign Affairs himself has conducted a very clear language in the field of human rights. It is therefore important that the strategy throughout the policy area is such that Norway is never perceived as an elusive agent in addressing serious violations of human rights. The Foreign Affairs Committee’s comment on an investigation into the EEA Agreement has received attention, and some are trying to put a lot of policy into it. On our side, we see this as a natural process, and not least there is a need to put the search light on the EEA Agreement as the EU expands and deepens its cooperation. I would warn against believing that such an investigation will largely find alternatives to the EEA. How we relate to the EU is primarily a political issue. We believe that the need now is to look at whether the EEA Agreement needs an upgrade, and so we believe that we need a professional investigation that takes this into account. With possible ratification of the Treaty of Lisbon during the year, this need will be further reinforced. Then it is gratifying that the message also looks at its own foreign service. Norway has a fantastic resource here that we need to know to use in a good and efficient way. Not least, I think it is important to stimulate Norway to be represented in central international organisations. This requires that it be provided in the service, that it be encouraged and that employees of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or other parts of the government who want such experience experience that they are valued. The development of the EEAS is increasing and tougher demands are being made on those representing Norway. How the service is dimensioned and organised is a matter of interest to more than the Government, although it is the responsibility of the Government. We believe it must also be possible to hold a debate on this, not least in the light of the demands and expectations of Norwegian citizens on work and travel abroad, and the needs of Norwegian business in a more globalised everyday life. We are therefore promoting a proposal for an evaluation of the Norwegian embassy and consulate structure. I would like to address the two suggestions that I have referred to, and that are reflected in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e197	The representative of Morten Højlund has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e200	Openness and debate on foreign policy have been important for SV for many years. That is why I am so pleased with the open process that has gone ahead of this message. I have experienced that the reflex meeting series has had many visitors and has been engaging. It reflects the commitment and interest of foreign and development policies. Both the Minister for Foreign Affairs and the Minister for Development have been transparent in these years. There have been many meetings and meetings with civil society on WTO and development issues, on disarmament and peace policy, on European policy, and money support has been given to the new social movements dealing with globalisation. In this way, more voices are heard, more experiences are listened to, new and alternative knowledge and different views are discussed. We must also dare to discuss the controversial issues of foreign and security policy. One of the free-town authors in Norway, Chenjerai Hove, has said this in the poem about heaven: "I'm here under the same sky as you are, enjoying the same shadow as you. I am here where you are, under the same heaven." Globalization has brought us closer together. Among other things, migration has led to the elimination of the distinction between domestic and foreign policies. Decisions in the EU and the WTO have positive and negative consequences in many communities around the world. The communication revolution has led to a faster and wider flow of information. The boy we met in Gaza a few weeks ago knew very well that some Norwegian lawyers had reported Israel for war crimes. He gave hope to that knowledge. Internet information on the MAI Investment Agreement a few years ago led to large-scale mobilization among social movements. Globalisation has positive aspects, but also negative ones, as the Committee decides. National authorities have reduced their influence on social developments in their own country. Major transnational companies have been engines of economic globalisation. Wal-Mart, Exxon Mobil and Royal Dutch Shell have a turnover far greater than GNI in sub-Saharan Africa countries. The financial crisis that started in the United States is raging in all countries. It is in our own interest to go at the head of the sharing of power and resources between countries, between north and south. It is in our interest to resolve the financial, climate, poverty and food crises. The world's nations are not powerless, but have the opportunity to face crises if you have the political will to solve them. Then it is essential that we define what kind of political will it is about. For many years, market solutions, privatisation and deregulation have been the prevailing ideology. The financial crisis shows that there has been a misguided policy. Moreover, as far as possible free trade in the widest possible range of goods and services is not the answer to the crisis in many countries, particularly poor countries. The setting indicates that the right-hand side is attached to these solutions. Poverty in parts of the world is closely linked to the place of poor countries in the global distribution of power and work. Norway has benefited from this in recent years, but not all countries. Many poor countries are exposed to a significant degree of external governance, and they lack the political space for action that makes growth and distribution possible. An unfair trading system, a high debt burden and a liberal economic policy promoted by the IMF, the World Bank and many Western donors reduce the scope of action. The solution to the crises depends on international cooperation, but also on the ability of individual countries to raise their own production, get people to work and stabilise the economy. Here, developing countries need opportunities to protect business and to build up the economy when necessary. It was this recognition that was the basis of this government's liberalisation requirements imposed by the Bondevik government on developing countries in the WTO service negotiations. It was this recognition that came about when the government recently laid down the model agreement for bilateral investments in the drawer. We are very satisfied with that in SV. Traditional military threats are no longer today's major security challenges. The main threats to human security today are environmental damage, poverty and terrorist attacks. That is why we must work for a comprehensive security policy, for strengthening social security and a good balance between military and civil protection. I'm startled that the government parties are all about this description in the vote, and even more so when we know what, in particular, the Progress Party's recipe for combating terrorism is: more military solutions. SV opposed the war in Iraq and participated in Operation Enduring Freedom in Afghanistan. The party of progress would more than send special soldiers to Iraq. Researchers and the US intelligence now acknowledge that the war in Iraq and Afghanistan has led to more terror, not less. It is vital for a small country such as Norway to ensure a functioning international conflict management law. Therefore, supporting the capacity and authority of the United Nations in conflict situations is an important part of Norwegian security policy. As a small country, Norway has an interest in protecting the prohibition of the use of force by international law and maintaining strict rules for when power is legitimate. Norway must therefore continue to do what the red-green government does: demand an unambiguous and concrete mandate from the UN if we are to participate in international operations. Recently, the Official Journal of Bergen called for more debate on security policy. This Government is based on NATO membership. There's no doubt about it. It is clear in the message. I still want to problematize NATO membership. NATO continues to have the first use of nuclear weapons as part of its strategy. That's why it's so important to work to eliminate the nuclear strategy. The Alliance reserves the right to use military power, even without a UN mandate. This increases the risk of Norway being involved in attacks wars in violation of international law. This has not happened until now, but if it does, Norway will be more deeply involved in the mainstream policy. It puts us in a greater dependency on the superpowers of the United States and will weaken Norway's ability to play an active role in international peace diplomacy. Every year, the world spends almost NOK 1000 billion. for military use. It equals more than three times the total budget of the United Nations. Today, a new arms race is being driven by the arms industry and the idea that the fight against terrorism will be won by military power. This stands in the way of reducing poverty and solving food crises and climate issues. The struggle for peace and disarmament has always been part of SV's basic foundation. We will always fight against military disarmament and war. A red-green government will continue to work for disarmament, as we have worked for the ban on class weapons, for nuclear disarmament and against the rocket shield. Humanitarian disarmament is about stopping the unacceptable humanitarian consequences of weapons. The northern regions are Norway's most important strategic investment. The consequences of climate damage are particularly evident in the Arctic. The edge of the ice disappears because there is too much oil and gas burning around the world. One study has just concluded that 22 pst. of the undiscovered oil and gas resources in the world are found in the Arctic. When the ice melts, more oil and gas become available. Burn it up, melt the ice even faster. The extraction of more oil and gas in these areas is not the answer to the climate challenges. Norway has become rich in oil and has a special responsibility to contribute to addressing climate challenges. Future energy sources are new, renewable energy. We have huge renewable energy reserves in Norway, not least in sea power, and it is the individual country that can contribute most to the achievement of ambitious targets by the EU and Norway together. A large-scale investment in new, renewable energy will form the basis for new, environmentally friendly industrial development in Norway. In the future, Norway will have a high potential for exports of clean energy and energy-intensive products produced with clean energy. With it requires that it is here that it bets, and not on further, high oil extraction. I am very pleased with the support for a review of the EEA Agreement. Various opinions are included in this, but we in SV believe that it is important to provide knowledge of the advantages and disadvantages of the agreement for Norwegian society, of the dynamic nature and consequences of the agreement, of the use of the right to reserve, of the power of the ESA and the EFTA Court and of the alternatives to the EEA Agreement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e231	St.meld. No 15 addresses interests, responsibilities and opportunities — broad lines of foreign policy. It provides useful overview and analysis, but little concrete guidelines and new proposals. But we need the overview, not least to be able to prioritize. It is natural for an interest-oriented foreign policy to systematically seek to promote the well-being, security and fundamental political values of Norwegian society. Within many parts of foreign policy, the focus will be on promoting Norwegian interests, but it is equally obvious that engagement policy – our fight against poverty internationally, the work on human rights, reconciliation and humanitarian policy and aid – has a different focus. This involvement policy is value-oriented. It has a strong starting point in what can be called altruism, i.e. an unselfish motivation and in the common interests of humanity. It also confirms the message. Mainly, the Communication confirms the broad consensus on the broad lines of foreign policy. In particular, let me stress on the part of the Christian People's Party that we are satisfied with Norway's form of association with the European Union. From our point of view, there is no other signal that we want a review of experience with the EEA Agreement, but that it is natural to have at regular intervals, as we have had under changing governments, and where the conclusion has been that the agreement has served us well. The Christian People's Party wants a stronger profile in the fight for human rights. Self-interests can cause Norwegian authorities to downplay their message about human rights cases against large countries that are important to us financially. We must be on guard against that. A concrete example: the government has not joined the EU countries’ condemnation of executions in China. We think that's too weak. If difficult questions and controversy are not addressed in the forums where we have opportunity, there is uncertainty about the value of the human rights dialogue we have with both China and some other countries. This is a concern the opposition has, and I have also registered with human rights organisations. There will be an unfortunate outburst of interest-oriented foreign policy if it leads to a weakening of Norway’s voice in the fight for human rights. The distribution of power in the world changes over time. It poses challenges when the majority of states that are members of the UN, for example: in the UN Human Rights Council, are not democracies. The UN shall be the foremost body and defender of international law and human rights. It would be paradoxical if, in practice, the United Nations bodies were to undermine fundamental human rights and freedom of expression. Although it is important to contribute to consensus, there is a limit to compromise. That's what we saw earlier in the run-up to the Second United Nations Follow-up Conference on Racism, where there was a need to show clear disagreement. Since Bondevik’s cooperation administration in 2005, St.meld. No 30 for 2004–2005, Opportunities and challenges in the north, we have been given a new impetus in the Northern Region policy. The Christian People's Party is pleased that this commitment is shared across party boundaries. We have large natural resources in this area, both fish and petroleum, which give us great opportunities and a great deal of management responsibility. We will have increasing ship traffic due to the melting of ice in the northern waters. It offers opportunities, but at the same time it requires increased preparedness to deal with accidents and any loss. Both Russia and other major powers have interests in the northern regions. It poses security challenges. But above all, the Christian People's Party sees the great opportunities for our northern part of the country and for increased neighbourhood cooperation. Foreign policy too can and must be used to ensure that Northern optimism is shifted into practical results – growth in business, new jobs, better communications, protection of the environment and the renewable resources that make the northern regions so unique. Let me conclude by saying that the Christian People's Party considers Norway's role as a contributor to peace and reconciliation as an important part of the main flow of our foreign policy. It is important that Norway maintains its role as a peacemaker in different contexts, that we carefully evaluate the experience we have had and made, and that we also make our resources and position available when requested by different parties. The fact that processes do not necessarily always succeed must not be used as a general argument against engaging. This is an important part of Norwegian engagement policy. I would like to point out the conflict in the Congo, I would like to point out the conflict in Kashmir and other important conflict areas where I hope that in the future Norway will be able to contribute in different ways – it does not necessarily have to be like peace brokers, it can be like a facilitator, it can be with resources, and it can be with forces and other human resources. That Christian People's Party will always be concerned about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e248	The previous message on the broad lines of foreign policy dates from 1989. Since then, the Berlin Wall has fallen, the Soviet Union has gone into disintegration and globalisation has gripped itself. It was time for a new, superior message. Before 1989, Norwegian foreign policy was largely reserved for the few, preferably in enclosed spaces, and agreement in foreign policy was seen as a matter of national responsibility – countries would stand united against another and threatening world in the east. Fortunately, a lot has changed since 1989. The message is based on a broad public debate through the Reflective Project. As long as we keep the EU case outside, today’s attitude shows that there is still a broad consensus in foreign policy – completely without an external enemy in the east. It is a clear strength for those who are to pursue foreign policy. There is only one exception to this consensus, and it is the Progress Party. The Progress Party believes that the broad majority in the United Kingdom is based on a naïve understanding of the causes of terrorism, that the world's bias will be saved by a more liberal economic policy, and that there are no challenges associated with Norway being a major exporter of fossil energy and at the same time wanting to be a leading climate nation. The Progress Party simplifies the world to the unrecognizable so that its simple solutions fit their global image – a well-known recipe, also nationally. The foreign policy image of our seas has also changed significantly since the late 1980s. At that time, we considered ourselves to be a small country in the world that would neither highlight its own interests nor take the aim of being an international player of importance. Over a number of years, we had a dramatic change in the view of our seas, and for a period there were no limits to what the ‘peace nation’ of Norway was going to sort out. It is good that the term ‘peace nation’ is on its way out of foreign policy vocabulary again. Presenting us sails as a nation of peace, as a contrast to a nation of war, is arrogant and historyless. That doesn't mean we're not going to get involved where we have opportunities, but we're going to be careful about how we present ourselves to sea. I record that someone is busy selling the ‘Norwegian model’ as a new export product. In a larger context, there is at best talk of a Nordic model, based on a mixed economy that is not foreign to others, seas if the dosage of the Nordic model has its characteristics. In fact, I would warn against the ‘Norwegian model’ being sold as we sold the ‘peace nation’ Norway. The possibility of backfire is significant. According to the notification and suspension, it is established that the foundation of foreign policy is the protection of Norwegian interests in a broad sense. Determining small countries such as Norway are well-functioning global organisations and international law. In recent years, Norway has made important contributions to humanitarian law by being a clear and operational actor in the field of mine and class bombing bans. Humanitarian law points out as an important area, where a small nation such as Norway can do important work for years to come. Elections to the European Parliament have been conducted with a historically low turnout. It must be in favour of a yes-page in Norway to experience this, since in recent years they have used Parliament's increased power as an important 'yes' argument. Now there is an EU Parliament with less legitimacy than ever since direct elections to the institution were introduced in 1979. Only 43.1 pst. by the voters voted. In Slovakia, the figure was down to 19 p.m. No-pages do not need to mention this fact, but it is worth recording that the choice makes the EU visible as an elite project. Bjørn Hansen wrote in a chronicle a few days ago: ‘For ordinary people in the EU, the Union is showing itself as something elevated and distant from their influence.’ So exactly, it can be expressed. This may also mean that well over half of the voters are apathetic, and many use the choice to get out of their minds and protest against national authorities. Lack of democracy in the Union will be the most important argument in the membership debate in the future. The choice of the European Parliament shows that our argument is constantly being reinforced.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e272	I should like to begin by commending the rapporteur for the constructive committee process and the Government for presenting an interesting communication on the broad lines of our foreign policy. I have noticed that the Government is providing a comprehensive and partly complex justification for its engagement policy. It includes both unselfish altruism and self-interest. The former, the unselfish, is referred to as the main reason. I do not disagree with this, but I believe that the justification for my own interests could go further. Given that there is uncertainty about what the future will bring, in a world marked by change, I believe that Norway should focus on a broad engagement policy. The opposite is to bet on a plentiful foreign policy, where time and resources gather on a few priority points. If developments do not go as expected, such policies may prove to be inappropriate. The fight for democracy and human rights is central to Norwegian foreign policy. Norway is at the forefront of the UN's work on human rights, and we should do what we can to ensure that the UN Human Rights Council functions according to its intentions. Furthermore, Norway should be a driver for the development of binding international agreements for corporate social responsibility. I believe that dialogue, across religions and political systems, is more effective in promoting universal values and human rights than the absence of dialogue and isolation. However, there is a clear premise that dialogue does not mean that one goes along with ethical principles, or that they are moderated and relativised. Dialogue can be a demanding tool. Yes, in some contexts, clear and clear speech against assault can save lives. In other contexts, communication channels may be closed and life endangered. Furthermore, a desire to influence the behaviour of a regime may revert to Norwegian business interests, if carried out with strength. I think there should be more openness about such dilemmas. I want to refer to two key challenges that the message doesn't go into that much. The first is linked to the active promotion of peace and reconciliation in other countries — while being among the world’s largest arms exporters. I believe that here we should emphasise Norway's active role in promoting international humanitarian law. Norway has played a significant role, mainly in connection with the conclusion of mine and class weapons conventions. This should be followed up by prioritising the work of an international arms trade convention. It is intended to increase control of the placing on the market of conventional weapons, inter alia. handguns. Furthermore, I believe that the requirements for documentation required prior to the export authorisation of weapons made in Norway should be strengthened. The second challenge is to be a major exporter of fossil energy — and at the same time appear to be a leading climate nation. I believe that Norway should not only profile itself as a leading oil, gas and hydropower producer, but should also be a driving force internationally to promote the development and use of new renewable energy. Norway has good conditions for extracting wind power at sea — and further developing the technology needed to extract solar energy. Increased commitment to renewable and new renewable energy can help create more energy security – including for poor developing countries. It can provide more jobs and, in particular, it can help reduce CO2 emissions. I believe that we should take all the signals about a stronger policy from Russia in the most serious way. However, I see no signs of immediate new dangers for Norway in Russia's new Arctic strategy and security strategy. The rhetoric in these is probably led to manifest Russia as a factor of power to count on, and to signal the will of sovereignty. Faced with a stronger Russian self-esteem in the Arctic, I do not think it should be allowed to build up a legal or institutional vacuum in the region. We should therefore relinquish and strengthen the Treaty of the Law of the Sea as a legal framework. On the institutional side, the Arctic Council and the Northern Dimension are important forums. The objective should be to bind Russia up in a comprehensive commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e306	I would like to thank the Committee and the rapporteur. I would also like to thank the two representatives who have been on the Foreign Affairs Committee all the way – and who now have their last debate, as they say – for good cooperation over four years. As Minister of Foreign Affairs and on behalf of the Government, it is a satisfaction to read this statement and to note that we have a broad platform for the implementation of Norwegian foreign policy. It is the government's so-called prerogative to conduct foreign policy, but it must be firmly anchored in the Storting. In modern reality, with parliamentary participation in many contexts, this anchoring is twice as important, because we are all – in a sense – actors for Norway. I believe, in this way, that this setting must be read together with the message. Of course, I am very pleased with the message, but I also believe that the political system can be very good at the setting. This priority issue has been a central one. There is consensus, I think, on the concept of ‘focused on Norwegian interests’. I have tried to present the two concepts ‘What is in Norway’s interest?’ and ‘Where can we make a difference?’ as a leading tool for assessing our efforts. Of course, it is most important for Norway to invest in the areas where we have interests and where we can make a difference. It will concern our neighbourhoods and where we are directly engaged. There could be areas where we don't have interests and where we can't make a difference either. Obviously, we shouldn't use a lot of effort to get involved. Then it can be – as the representative Højbrätten was a little bit into – areas where we do not have direct national interests, but where we have the opportunity to make a big difference. Then we're going to consider engaging. That one in the debate criticises the message a little, and talks about that we are not prioritizing, I – as the Chamber will understand – cannot join. The task of such a message is not to select individual items and details and to state that this should be important in the future. It is creating a framework of values and priorities with regard to what is important for Norway, and what resources Norway has that enables us to prioritise, which must be the task of a major communication of this kind, coming at the end of a period. Then there is the Government Declaration, the Foreign Minister's Foreign Policy Statements and what is happening from day to day, which determines the priorities of each case. There are six chapters of interest in this Communication, which deal with security, commitment, economics, energy, environment and global organisation. I think it provides a very good framework for what Norway focuses most on. Then it's like no one could predict September 11th, September 10th. And no one could predict the day of a bird flu outbreak in Asia or that a swine flu outbreak in Mexico would be a big, big deal. In both cases, we had to be equipped to meet these challenges. Nor could we foresee the war in Lebanon, which led to a large transport of Norwegian citizens in the summer of 2006, etc. So the discussion of priority often becomes a discussion of real political disagreement, and that's good. Although I would like to emphasise that there is a broad consensus on the main lines, I note that – as the representative Haga said – it is the Progress Party that is on the side of these main analyses. It's an honest thing – although I also have to say that the Progress Party here occupies positions that we don't always hear in different posts. It is a reference to the positiveness of cross-border migration and to the seriousness of global climate change – which is man-made and must be met. We do not recognize the post of the party president that the UN is a threat to world peace. I welcome that. I think that is a progress both for Norwegian civilization and for other civilization. As far as human rights are concerned, these are a high priority in Norwegian foreign policy. It is good that there is a debate on this. We have had both interpellations and general foreign policy debates on human rights, which is important. Now we're going into the UN Human Rights Council, and Norway is going to attend from June 19th to see it. I want to fight back in terms of those who claim that Norway has a unclear profile in the work on human rights. I am in favour of our being kept under observation, and – let's say – I am encouraged and pressured to take courageous positions on human rights issues – which we also do. There is a quality in our foreign policy debate that there is a lot of focus on human rights. I don't think that's how we're known abroad to be unclear or somehow passive in these questions. On the contrary, we actively participate in the established channels, and we support very much of the work done outside the established channels, which is necessary to promote human rights – especially in countries that do not participate in or respect established conventions and principles. The fact that we should not have supported the European Union's protest against the death penalty in China becomes a paradox. Norway is against the death penalty — always and everywhere — and we protest in a wide range of cases. It is a small paradox that those who very actively argue that Norway should not automatically join the EU in all cases have become engrossed in one case where Norway did not join in protest against one execution in China at a few hours’ notice. There are thousands — too many — in that country, and China must be confronted in principle and in individual cases, as Norway does. But I think this is a derailment of what is Norway's line. Otherwise, I would just like to say briefly that there is very good support for the Northern Region policy. It's important for Norway, I appreciate that it's included. Then I would also like to welcome the two recommendations we have received to carry out an investigation into the EEA Agreement – which I think is naturally happening in the next period. Then the social debate will decide if it's also time to evaluate alternatives. The size has to discuss whether there is room to consider alternatives to what has been Norway’s relationship for 15 years. I believe it is the responsibility of the Government – and now invited by Stortinget – to go through the functioning of a comprehensive agreement after 15 years. If that analysis leads to someone getting the insight that one should choose differently, in Norwegian political life, there will be a completely open and honest debate about exploring alternatives or evaluating other ways. What we want from the Government is to carry out a thorough review of the functioning of the EEA Agreement. It should be done in such a way that it has credibility, and so that it may be interesting in terms of both politics and civil society. Then we've also been asked to investigate the consequences of shipping in the Arctic. That is a good suggestion. I think that's one of several investigations we have to do about the consequences of what's happening in the north. I would like to say to you at the end: the field of foreign policy is expanding. I believe that this communication helps to draw a picture of how foreign and domestic policies are linked, how globalisation affects our political freedom. It was really symptomatic of the program I had in Geneva yesterday, which began with a conversation with the head of the International Red Cross about international humanitarian law – its exposed position after the wars in Gaza, the war in Sri Lanka, Afghanistan and Pakistan. What do we do to respect these principles? In this context, Norway, the International Red Cross and some countries with which we cooperate are planning to have a side event at the UN General Assembly to focus on the position of humanitarian law: Can we live with it being violated? What do we do with that? Furthermore, I had a meeting with the WTO Director-General on the work on a new WTO agreement, which has followed me through all these four years. It's an important topic. We had a very interesting round table conference in the margins of the ILO conference on decent work, on the initiative of Norway. It confirmed to me that if there was any doubt that this is a foreign policy in the modern world, it would be swept aside. Today, millions of people become unemployed. The financial crisis has become an economic crisis, a social crisis and a political crisis. And growing unemployment, without social security networks, is a direct threat to the stability of countries – therefore also to the stability of neighbouring countries. scapegoats are pointed out, and this is a dangerous international situation. That is why ILO's work on decent work, focusing on jobs, is an important field to focus on, and it is a central part of Norwegian foreign policy. I can also say that earlier this week I was in Reykjavik at the Nordic Minister of Foreign Affairs meeting, which gave the first assessment of the Stoltenberg report. A number of important initiatives are taking place as proposed in the report, and a picture of Nordic foreign and security cooperation is being drawn up which is now taking place within the framework of some being in the EU and some being in NATO, but it is Nordic common denominators that make it both natural and possible for us to pursue it. Finally, on the EEAS: I appreciate the exposure shown in the policy setting and the trust shown in the EEAS. I see from the post to Morten Höglund that the Progress Party is very ambitious. I am pleased that the Progress Party has left last year's proposal to cut the operating budget to the U.D. by 100 million. kr. There wouldn't have been much counting in foreign policy if that had been the result. Then I want to assure everyone in the Chamber that the Reflex project is not over as a method and approach. Openness has come to stay. It has been amazingly inspiring and rewarding for us working on foreign policy, and for everyone who has participated. Reflex was attached to this big message, but that's a good name. I will not rule out that there may be some kind of name in this way of working on foreign policy in the future. It does not come in addition and on the outside of Parliament, but I think it enriches the whole debate on foreign policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e344	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e347	We have also noted earlier in this period that we think there is a need to review Norway’s peace exposure. We are addressing a new proposal here today, which probably does not receive very broad support. In the wake of the war on Sri Lanka, some questions have been raised. In a chronicle in Dagbladet on 5 June, we talk about Norway's weakened credibility. I won't stand behind it, but it's pretty serious claims. Will the Minister of Foreign Affairs confirm that, with the knowledge of the war in Sri Lanka and the role of Norway, one is now going through this thoroughly and taking lessons, because it is said – at least the Minister of Foreign Affairs will have to choose whether to comment on it – that Norway went unprepared into this conflict?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e354	First, Erik Solheim and I realized that Morten Höglund was a supporter of the commitment we had when we were active in Sri Lanka. I appreciate that. He said in his post earlier today that Norway could not be in the driver's seat anywhere, and we are in no way. The way we prioritize, as the message draws up, points out that if we can make a difference, we're going to get involved. I can confirm that there are a long, wide range of enquiries to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that Norway should engage in conflicts and difficult situations, which we reject because we cannot make a difference. But it's not safe, and it should just be missing, when you go in and try to make a difference where it's about war and peace. I also fully agree with the Hagas representative's emphasis that we should not be a holy nation of peace that separates us from everyone else. But we have opportunities to make a difference. I believe that the commitment to Sri Lanka is very good in a historical light. It is the parties who have to take responsibility for the upswings, and it is the parties who have to pay the price for the downshuts. A third party seeking to facilitate may only contribute to the extent that the parties themselves wish and are able to implement the peace.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e363	When the Government in the Communication states that the EEA Agreement faces a number of challenges over time, it is not least because of developments in the EU – the agreement will become active in more areas than it was 15 years ago. As others have pointed out, the Committee has unanimously stated that it is natural to examine how the EEA Agreement has worked for the first 15 years and how it will meet the challenges facing it. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that such an investigation should not solve the political problem. The political debate may come later in the right forums. However, if the investigation is to be a good basis, and if it is generally accepted as the basis for the political debate, it will require a great deal of materiality to be perceived as objective. I have noticed a string from several of the speakers – such as professionalism and increased knowledge. But I want to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs if he sees how one will put in that work to make it that tool, and be perceived as objective.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e370	I haven't thought through it in detail. I think it must be a work we are going to do after the fall elections. But I imagine – and I share the representative’s view on it – that it must be of professional relevance, that it must be done by people who can call for trust and credibility. I see that someone has suggested that we should put the entire investigation work abroad. I do not believe that on my own powers. But I don't want to rule out that getting others' views on this agreement and the way it works, even beyond Norway's borders, can be an interesting addition, without me agreeing to it. I think we have to assume what the EEA Agreement was supposed to solve, and see if it still does. It is about economics, jobs and the market. It is about a number of other areas of society, and it is about democracy – does the agreement provide key values in terms of democracy? And then we have to look at the other areas in which we are cooperating with the EU, from Schengen to defence and a wide range of areas that are not in the EEA but which are linked in the same network of cooperation we have. There can be an exciting debate and an important review, on which we can have good debates in this Chamber too.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e379	Today's elections in Iran put the spotlight on a regime that has been guilty of gross violations of human rights. This concerns freedom of expression, freedom of religion, women's rights, etc. One of the most serious areas is the extent of child executions. Iran is one of the few countries in the world that do this in practice, and last year, according to information from human rights organisations, nine children were executed – three to date this year. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is about Norway as part of its engagement policy in this important area can imagine taking the initiative to create a broad international alliance against the execution of children in one of the few countries that are actually doing so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e388	First, I join in a clear condemnation of child executions. You're nine too many, and it's intolerable and unacceptable. This is in focus in Iran, but there is reason to believe that this is also going on elsewhere in the world, and is, as it were, a human rights violation that is so serious that it should be charged everywhere it happens. Whether a separate international initiative against the death penalty against children in Iran is an important way to use force in Iran, I will not rule out, but I believe that what is important is a broad international opinion and a broad international initiative against the death penalty. The situation today is that according to central international law governments can say that the death penalty is part of their criminal law that the rest of the world has no right to look into. Here it is possible to build an opinion, and it is clear that the completely outraged examples of the executions of children, minors and mentally retarded people are very important focal points. I'm very concerned about this globally, and I don't believe in linking it just to a single country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e395	In St.meld. No 15 shows that there is no alternative to the UN, and we all agree on that. But the government's own policy also offers some examples that may seem the opposite. The initiative on the GAVI vaccine programme, led by Microsoft founder Bill Gates, is such an example. The same applies to support for other global funds, such as the Global Fund for AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria and the William J. Clinton Foundation. Norwegian support for these actors is solid. Until 2015, Norway has, for example: committed to contribute beyond DKK 6.5 billion to the global vaccine alliance GAVI, which is also positive. These funds operate outside and often overlapping with the UN system, and are increasingly receiving attention and support. I have no doubt that the Foreign Minister's support for the UN is sincere, but I still want to ask him if Norwegian foreign policy sometimes sends some mixed signals to the UN.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e404	This issue is very central and relevant. Ideally, it would be best, I think, if these funds were created inside the UN, that they were part of the governance structure provided by the UN, so that all countries feel that they are involved in giving signals about how the money is spent. What was recorded in the 1990s was that it was not possible. Trust in the UN in providing these services was not enough for the UN alone to be given the mission. That's why Gavi, the Global Fund, and a number of other initiatives came. Our task here has been to ensure that the UN does not completely lose sight of these organizations. Therefore, Norway has been a spokesman in the GAVI for both UNICEF and the World Health Organisation to be central as normative organisations. And it's not true that Gavi is led by Bill Gates; Gavi is run by Jens Stoltenberg, by Norway, and has Dagfinn Højbrätten in the board – i.e. political governance from countries that are members of the UN. So Norway will always be a figure for these independent funds to have a clear anchor in the common vision that only the United Nations can provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e411	The paper states that our energy resources should not be politicised or used as a geopolitical instrument. And this is good. Developments at international level may indicate that not all actors are of the same opinion. I am thinking here of the gas conflict between Russia and Ukraine, and we see that Hugo Chávez is actively using energy resources to gain influence, among other things. through a planned gas pipeline over large parts of the South American continent. Does the Minister of Foreign Affairs think what we are now seeing is a signal that energy resources can be expected to be used more strongly as a means of political power?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e419	Energy is power, and energy is politics. Therefore, this will always be used in such contexts. What is an accident for the people, who are the owners of the national energy resources, is that they get less for these resources when you choose to conduct the kind of policy – leaders who take cash out of the cash flow from energy sales and distribute it into streets and squares, as we have seen in some countries we don't want to compare with. I think it is the case with international policies and power policies that there will still be countries pursuing the policy to which Mr Vaksdal refers, but I think that over time it may also prove to be a bad strategy and a vulnerable strategy. What at the moment can look like a significant power potential when you use energy to achieve a resource can turn back on next time, when economic trends and prices change. In this way, I think Norway, not just because of our size, but because of its thoughtful policies, stands well in the different economic cycles by choosing this line, which is robust against changing times.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e426	So the line change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e429	20 years ago, the previous big business communication on Norwegian foreign policy was presented. It was actually presented just weeks before the first East Germans hammered through the hated wall in Berlin, without predicting what was going to happen. Maybe that's why it lay so long in Stortinget. Inner. S. No 181 for 1989–1990 is dated 21 May 1990, three years after the notification was submitted. In this we read, among other things:\t\t You can change the ‘The key issues such as environmental challenges, changes in the international economy and European integration will increasingly shape the foreign policy debate in Norway and serve to reduce the distinction between foreign and domestic policies.’ It also states: ‘The rapid changes in the world around us are increasingly demanding the foreign policy process.’ This could actually have been said today. The same applies to the broad agreement on Norwegian foreign and security policy, which is also underlined in today’s communication. Nevertheless, a lot has happened since 1989 and since May 1990. Norwegian foreign policy is offensive and clear and must take care of Norwegian interests and Norwegian values in a rapidly changing globalised world, even in the face of the unforeseeable, which the Minister of Foreign Affairs was also concerned with. Foreign policy – but especially security policy, which I want to focus most on – must always be prepared for the unmistakable. Significant parts of the soft aspects of foreign policy are also important today for our interest policy and our security policy. Traditional safety policies have changed significantly over the past two decades. We have had asymmetric threats as a major challenge for Norwegian defence and security policy. New threat images also affect the organisation of defence and civil-military cooperation. We have increased focus on social security; we have increased focus on civil protection. As stated in the setting, events far away can also have consequences for Norwegian or regional security. Contributing to global crisis management – even regional conflict prevention and conflict resolution – can be defined as a Norwegian interest. I would like to refer to what has been said earlier in the debate. Non-proliferation of nuclear weapons is important to prevent fissile material from coming into the hands of terrorist groups and unstable regimes. In addition to non-proliferation, we also need to reverse the negative trend in nuclear disarmament. At that time, those countries that today own the largest nuclear arsenals must show leadership. Russia and the United States continue to have 95 pst. of the world's nuclear weapons. That's why the renewed contact between the two powers is very positive. Non-proliferation also means that handguns and ammunition must not come into the hands of unstable regimes or violent insurgents. I would like to refer to previous positions of the Foreign Affairs Committee on disarmament and non-proliferation and on the export of defence equipment. Development policy must also be seen in the context of security policy. We provide assistance to countries on the way out of a violent conflict, and this was confirmed on Monday when we dealt with the development message. Afghanistan, Sudan and the Middle East are the areas where Norway provides the most assistance, where long-term assistance is combined with humanitarian aid, peacekeeping, security and peacekeeping or stabilising forces. NATO membership is the cornerstone of our security policy. It is in Norway’s interest that NATO is also the central transatlantic forum for debate and consultation on security policy, and that it does not take place between, for example: The European Union in Brussels and Washington. The Committee also welcomes the increasingly extensive cooperation in defence policy in the Nordic region. Let me add that, however, it must be within our NATO anchoring, or as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, for some countries in the Nordic region, there is the EU, and for us NATO membership. Finally, we will be discussing Norwegian humanitarian policy later today. Norway is an active and clear champion of universal human rights. We also play a role in promoting international humanitarian law. I would like to point out that, after Sri Lanka, East Congo, Gaza and the cyclone in Burma, we need to be even more involved in humanitarian law, so that the needy and those who are subjected to gross violations and abuses get quick and secure help. We must never forget that vulnerable people should have the necessary assistance — locally, there and then — but also as an important global humanitarian law principle. This will also be an important challenge for foreign policy in the coming years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e456	As an old energy politician in this house, I have read with great interest what it says on this important theme in the communication. While the chapter that deals with energy in its entirety provides a sober description of the reality of the subject, elsewhere one can read about an increasing global shortage of strategic resources, such as the United States and Japan. fossil energy and global competition for scarce energy resources. This testifies to some lack of coherence and coordination from chapter to chapter, and it may seem that the message has had different authors who have not quite known what is in the message in addition to their own chapter. It is attempted in the introduction of the message to give the impression that there is a global shortage of energy. I don't know if there are internal policy objectives that are the motive for such a description of reality, but it doesn't get any better for that reason. In many parts of the world, energy and resources are in poor supply and demand for energy will increase as a result of wealth trends worldwide. The challenges are often to make use of the available energy resources, or alternatively to have such resources deployed from outside. Norway has the best conditions to contribute to such a development. We have more than a hundred years of experience in extracting hydropower and we also have forty years of experience in extracting petroleum resources from the base. We have also spent several years researching new, renewable energy. The knowledge and competences we have in these areas can be used both in the context of aid and in the context of development. Norwegian petroleum technology is also at the forefront of the world, and technology is being exported to large parts of the world. Norway today appears as one of the world’s leading energy storms, with significant exports of both oil and gas. However, too often we experience that the Norwegian side lowers the voice when it comes to the extraction and use of hydrocarbons. We're not supposed to talk out loud about this in international forums. It can look like our most important nourishment should preferably sweep under the carpet, as something that is dirty, polluting and politically incorrect. This has to end. World hydrocarbons consumption is to a very small extent affected by Norwegian oil and gas production. As long as the market is stable or growing, it means that oil and gas will be burned globally regardless of whether it is produced on a Norwegian base or not. At the same time, we know that there are nowhere else in the world more stringent health, environmental and safety requirements than in Norway, and nowhere else is oil and gas produced with less emissions than on Norwegian base. This can and must be exploited as a clear competitive advantage. Nor should we forget that Norwegian gas to the continent often replaces the combustion of coal, which has clearly brought environmental benefits. Energy security is becoming increasingly important, and we have gradually developed a good reputation internationally as a safe and stable energy supplier. If this is to continue, petroleum activities must be facilitated in new sea areas. It is therefore important that we now facilitate smooth and long-term exploration activities in the northern seas and make proper use of oil and gas resources here as well. The government has not shown any action in this area. The country meeting in the largest government party was also unable to take a position, despite having been idle for four years on this issue. However, I am pleased that it is clearly stated by the Government that there is no desire to politicise energy resources. With the gas conflict between Russia and Ukraine – which I was in the process of changing lines – fresh in memory and Hugo Chavez's plan to use gas to gain influence and power over large parts of the South American continent, it is important that Norway acts in a correct and tidy way as an energy supplier. This in itself will strengthen our position as a safe and reliable energy supplier for many years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e471	Four years ago they announced the red-green parties that they would go to elections to form a plural government. There is no lack of predictions or allegations about how irresponsible this would be, not least about this foreign policy. An attempt was made to create a scary picture of the policy that such a government would pursue. The allegations that such a government would break our foreign policy tradition and isolate Norway were many. It was also claimed that such a government would become a force for action in foreign policy. This was made a major issue in the election campaign, but fortunately, the Norwegian people did not let themselves be frightened. After four years we have to be able to say that these predictions and scare images have not been enabled. On the contrary, Norway has led a very active and successful foreign policy during this period. Today, when we deal with the first whole-hearted message about foreign policy in 20 years, it is very happy with the great unity that is. The government will be fully satisfied with the policy's main lines. That's good. But with that, the parts of Stortinget also confirm that the scare image of the previous election campaign did not hit, and that there should therefore be no basis for repeating similar claims in this year's election campaign. Foreign policy will and must be event-driven. At the same time, it provides the review Government has done in the message, the basis for priorities and consistency over time. The message also indicates that the world is more collided than before. I therefore agree with the fact that we in Norway tend to be occupied with more than narrow self-interests. The financial and climate crisis shows that no individual country can isolate itself from what is happening in the world. Norway, with a very open economy, will be affected when commodity prices fall. We're going to be affected when the climate starts to crumble. Great refugee currents reach our borders, too. Therefore, the foreign policy must be broadly based, as the message puts it. Experience shows that Norway can make a difference, Norway can play a role. It's important that we have ambitions to exploit this possibility. It is therefore advisable to systematise and map the areas where we believe we have the ability to influence, and what processes we also benefit from affecting, as the message does. This is an important tool for Norwegian foreign policymakers. Norway is a major power in several areas. Although our oil production is on its way down, we are still an energy storm power. I would say that we have led the world's most successful oil and gas policy. We have managed to develop our own industry and at the same time distributed revenue from the sector in a way that has benefited everyone in the country. In Norway, we were almost without knowledge when we found oil. Today we're world-leaving. We have managed to combine gradual development with a defensive environmental policy. Our management model, our laws and regulations are requested by others with large petroleum or natural resources. It is therefore important that we share our knowledge, as we do through the Oil for Development programme. The management of income has been very successful. State pension fund – Foreign is currently one of the world’s largest funds, much to the delight of future generations, and this management model is also a demanded export product. Personally, I think we will experience a greater struggle for resources in the future. There will be a fight between those who have access to different natural resources and those who are excluded. All today, we see that many areas of large natural resources are bordered by conflict. We also see that China and other countries secure resources while they are still on the ground. Lack of resources can easily become the source of new tensions and conflicts. A very successful Norwegian initiative has been the dialogue between the largest oil producers and consumers. Although this initiative may not be well known, Norway has contributed to increased understanding and relaxation between oil exporters and importers for over 20 years. This I think has been important for world peace. Norway has played a role here, Norway has made a difference here. Another area where Norway is a major act is like an Arctic nation. Not only do we manage large natural areas. We also have very large and requested knowledge in this area, knowledge that can be particularly useful with increasing climate change and ice melting, a development that is most likely to lead to higher activity and transport in this area. If we manage our knowledge properly, here too we have great potential to influence international developments, so that it becomes as gentle as possible in an area that has a very vulnerable nature. Today there is elections in Iran, one of the world's worst regimes. Although the choice is between a very narrow selection of pre-approved candidates, there is reason for hope, because there is a difference between the candidates, but mainly because this choice engages the inhabitants, especially the youth. It gives them hope for the future. It is they who will decide Iran's future. Today's regime has no legitimacy in its own people. Once they've managed to stay by the power for so long, I don't think it's at least because they've been able to drag up a foreign enemy. I actually believe Obama's hesitant policy can become this regime's worst enemy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e497	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e500	It has been a strength for Norway that there has been a broad consensus on the underlying foundations of foreign and security policy. The attitude in this matter does not only further this good foundation, it strengthens and broadens the consensus. In this setting, there is a total amount of money that is behind the Government’s assessment of the importance of EU cooperation for central Norwegian interests. Of course, there is no change in the parties’ views on the link with this cooperation that we had best served, but there is a consensus that EU cooperation is important for central Norwegian interests. Of course, this concerns the importance of the internal market for Norwegian exports and value creation and thus for Norwegian welfare, but it may be even more relevant to the EU's contribution to the notification so strongly underlines our fundamental interest in an international legal order, a world in which relations between states are regulated through an ever-closer web of binding agreements, conventions and laws. Several speakers have also underlined this in the debate. EU cooperation is what has come most to develop close cooperation between countries with common institutions, built on democracy and legal principles. EU cooperation is also a global driver in other areas that coincide with our interest policy. This concerns the interest in combating poverty and creating a world with less differences. This concerns our interest in strengthening rules and standards to protect both people and the environment. On Wednesday, the EFTA 15th anniversary of the EEA Agreement marked with a simple reception in Brussels. Together with the Schengen Agreement, it allows us to participate widely in EU cooperation. Its weakness, as also pointed out in the notification and setting, is that we cannot participate in the decision-making processes. We are deeply and widely involved in cooperation, but have no representation in the democratic bodies and are outside political cooperation. There is a broad consensus that we should now have a thorough review – or investigation, as is well known – of the EEA Agreement. Such an investigation and review should also, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs points out, provide the basis for a reflection around the wisdom of the situation we are in, namely that we have become so deeply and extensively involved in that cooperation a small majority said no to becoming a member of 15 years ago. What is at least certain is that after this setting and treatment of St.meld. No 23 for 2005–06 earlier in the session here in Stortinget, there is a cross-political agreement that EU cooperation is of major importance for Norway and Norway. No one claims that EU cooperation is a threat, either to democracy, the environment or other important interests and values that are at the heart of our own foreign policy. There is a remarkable and joyful development in the view of European cooperation that has taken place during this period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e517	As others have pointed out, it has been 20 years since the fall of the Berlin Wall. It created a new world order. The end of the Cold War is also the basis of our Northern Territory policy. The northern regions remain of great strategic importance. Russia has a strong military presence in the north, but the presence today poses no direct military threat. It does not prevent difficult conflicts from arising in other areas. We have had unfortunate incidents in connection with our fishing activities in the Barents Sea. Most will remember the ‘Elektron’ case, that is, the Russian fishing boat launched by Norwegian coastguards, who refused to submit to Norwegian jurisdiction and set full speed on Russian waters, with Norwegian inspectors on board. Of course, the episode was handled by Norwegian and Russian authorities, without any serious conflict between our two countries. With another foreign management, it could easily have happened. I remember very well that prominent party representatives on this occasion put their finger on the trigger and ordered that we should have released the shot. I think this underlines that we should have a good and, above all, agreed relationship with the nations operating in our northern waters. A significant proportion of the world's remaining oil and gas resources are probably hidden below the seabed in the northern regions. Oil and gas are already an important driver of industrial development in the north, and we have technological advantages that have already been applied in this area. At the same time, we have the largest and most sustainable fish stocks in the world in this area. As the police melt, Arctic areas will become increasingly ice-free, and that means that the sea route to Asia will be several times shorter than today. But at the same time we have to remember that we're moving here in some of the world's most vulnerable environments. We simply do not tolerate discharges from ships, oil or gas operations, not to say massive radioactive contamination from Russian nuclear stocks in Kola. Therefore, all economic activity in this area must be subject to the most stringent environmental requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e528	In a debate on Norwegian foreign policy, I want to reflect a little on the nuclear issue. The world may be in a critical phase with regard to road choices taken in relation to nuclear weapons and disarmament. For Norway and very many other countries, with and without nuclear weapons, the nuclear issue will continue to be of great security policy importance. We have not least seen that in the discussions about the plans for a rocket shield. For the past few weeks, the test explosions in North Korea have marked the news picture. Today there are elections in Iran, and we all of course hope for an outcome that will increase the chance that the country will give up its nuclear program. While the fight against nuclear weapons again wins headlines, nuclear power is on the march worldwide. A total of nearly 300 new nuclear power plants are now being planned or built on a global scale, according to Technical Weekly estimates. It's worth noting that nowhere is the progress of nuclear power as clearly as it is in Asia. Given the dramatic development, it is very worrying that there are so few watertight bulkheads between the development of nuclear power and nuclear weapons. Nevertheless, I am now a little hopeful. The reason for this is that what is one of the most exciting proposals on the disarmament side in many years seems to be concrete, namely the creation of an international fuel bank under the IAEA. An international bank that supplies fuels for the civil use of nuclear power shall at least theoretically make it unnecessary for countries themselves to have to supply enriched uranium, seeing the existence of an international fuel bank. Using the excuse that a driver's own enrichment is only for civil use, while it might actually be for the development of nuclear weapons, will be more difficult to legitimize for the outside world. Stater's real intentions may come to light more clearly. Red lines get easier to define. I pointed to Iran earlier. An international fuel bank has been sketched as part of the solution to the Iran problem, and not for no reason have we in the Center Party and the Red-Green Government wholeheartedly supported this project. Just over the weekend, Russia will present the first proposal – which is one of several proposals pending – to such an international fuel bank for the IAEA. My strong desire and my hope is that the Government will contribute actively in every way to the realization of such a bank, and to the building up of the obstacles that exist. The most important thing for everyone's safety is the fight against nuclear weapons.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e545	Since this is my last foreign debate here in the house, I would like to have the word a little bit more. Firstly, I would like to thank both Marit Nybakk and the latter for taking up the fight against nuclear weapons. It can't be picked up too often. Secondly, I would like to say to Svein Roald Hansen that I and other EU opponents have never been opponents of cooperation with the EU – on the contrary. I am pleased that a unanimous committee determines that the international legal order is a fundamental pillar of Norwegian security policy. It is then important that all countries be required to comply with international law and law. It is reassuring to see that Israel is repeatedly breaking international law and international decisions without any consequences. We were a group from SV in Palestine a few weeks ago, and we saw how the occupation takes many forms and destroys the life of the Palestinians. The worst was the systematic destruction in Gaza. It was obvious that civilian targets were bombed on purpose. The blockade is total, and it gives Hamas power, because it gives power over the supplies into Gaza. In a meeting with John Ging, head of UNRWA in Gaza, he called for the will of the international community to follow international law, in particular the Geneva Conventions. If Israel continues to violate humanitarian law, it feeds on radicalisation and extremism, he said. He came with a very clear warning, which I will pass on to Stortinget: then the father will be strong for Gaza to end up being like Somalia. The majority, Government and civil society are concerned with the implementation of Security Resolution 1325 on Women, Peace and Security. We've been busy many times here in the house. Norad just presented a report on how this is being followed up in Afghanistan. I think it's very good that Norad evaluates such things, and it shows that it's a great potential for improvement. Two tough and brave women parliamentarians who SV had visited the Stortingen for a little while could confirm the same, and they came with some advice that I would bring on to the Stortinget. Firstly, the forces must be trained immediately in the situation and political situation of women, with women's eyeglasses on. It is essential that Afghan women take part in training and that this is done in cooperation with the Afghan Parliament and UNIFEM in Afghanistan. It is necessary to establish analyses and plans on how to improve the safety of women and to bring them into all negotiations and reconciliation processes that are taking place there. And then they made another call for networks to be established between these courageous parliamentarians and women in the Western parliaments. I will pass on that call when Stortinget will continue to work with these matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e567	Norway’s peace exposure has been addressed in general earlier in the debate. I won't. I'm going to deal with something that has actually almost followed me my whole life, and that's the situation in Sri Lanka. I know people who live there, who have done an unselfish work. I know that Norway has been in the peace process for a long time, through changing governments – both at those in position, and others who are in opposition and who are now sitting. I know we've played different roles. I therefore chose to ask questions to the Minister of Assistance in a spontaneous time in an open way if, in retrospect, you could ask questions about whether something could have been done differently, about what happened. Then the Minister of Aid chose to say that it was an important issue. He chose, of course, to say the same thing as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, that the parties have a very heavy responsibility. He used the example of Michael Collins, who, during the conflict over Ireland after World War I, chose to take 80 pst. He was killed for it, but won anyway. So he said that those who often require 100 pst, get nothing. What was in my question when – as I felt was received – and which is in my post today, is that I think it is wise not to go through what we have done internally. In my life as a practicing politician in Norway, I have learned that even in most contexts where I have tried to play a ‘go in between’ role, and I have done that quite many times, I have then had to ask myself if it was something by my way of doing it as there was reason to think about it. It's like building relationships, of course, the parties are responsible, but even a good broker needs to think about his mediation situation. So I'm just keeping the post to ask for it to be done in a thorough and proper way. I'm saying it because the conflict isn't solved. The war is over, and it seems to me as a reader, that the Tiger Leader chose to go out so totalitarianly and made almost all the mistakes. When you get a peace agreement, you don't take it. When making choices, you ask your supporters to boycott the elections, so that you make sure that the candidate who was on the peace page loses etc. My question is, however, seriously asked. I think it's wise to look through how we have behaved ourselves. I'm not saying it because I'm looking to take someone. I say that because life is always learning something. Wise people always learn from their actions, especially when they are done over time, and because in many ways this conflict became as extremely bloody as it was in the final question, I keep the post in this way now. There may be a need for reflection, and there is no doubt that Norway is playing many constructive roles in peace. There's no doubt about it. I am pleased with the Foreign Minister's delineation, that we are the nocturnal. But thinking, especially with regard to this conflict on Sri Lanka, I think it might be useful for any subsequent process.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e580	I feel the need to comment on some of the issues raised during the debate. The representative, Bjørnstad, had a question related to our UN comment, and that we were not involved in the majority's comment. I don't think that's the big difference between us and the others in the view of the United Nations. We felt the need to also include some critical comments, but we support the desire for a relevant, effective UN, and not least an international legal order. The war in Afghanistan was taken up by the representative of Valle. She also initially referred to how SV was against Norwegian participation. A formulation was used by the representative of Valle that the war in Afghanistan has led to more terror. At the same time, it was also linked to the fact that the Progress Party will only combat terror by military means, which is, of course, a gross oversimplification. What we can see is that in reality, SV has been with military and civil in Afghanistan during this period. The party of progress has also been with both military and civil in this period, so I think we should take on the realities. Differences between the SV and the Progress Party in practical policies in Afghanistan are now very small. It might be bigger in the rhetoric, but I think we're going to relate to what's happening on the ground. The representative Haga greatly simplifies, according to my concepts, but that there is a difference between the Progress Party and the Center Party in foreign policy, we live very well with it. The representative, Haga, puts the Advance Party very much on the foreign policy side. At the same time, it was the Center Party that questioned the whole World Trade Organisation on Monday in a debate in this Chamber. So who are outsiders, you can respectfully discuss. Minister of Foreign Affairs Støre entered Sri Lanka at the turn of the line, and the representative Dørum was also in Sri Lanka now. It's a sensitive and important question. I have tried to be a supporter, but I experienced early in the conflict that my comments were quickly abused by the press in Sri Lanka. I put a lot of tape on myself all the way to try to be constructive. Once Norway had taken on a role, it was important that we did not hit each other nationally. At least that wouldn't make sense. But now in retrospect – we can talk about whether we're done – we have to be allowed to discuss this a little bit more openly. I think that might be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e593	I think that both the process ahead of the big message and the message itself have been a valuable part of lifting the analysis of Norway’s position and how the international world is changing. The analyses may have changed in many areas as to what is the challenge in world society, and how Norwegian foreign policy should adapt to change, but I think the main answer is that many of the answers are the same as they have been in the past. The interests of a small country are best served by strong international organisations, a strong international regulatory framework, by the fact that a country has alliance links, and that we are seeking participation where we need to have our opinion expressed, in as many areas as possible. I also believe that developments internationally in recent years have reinforced the need for common solutions. It has reduced the need for more autonomy for nations and increased the need for more community, common solutions and international cooperation. The Communication states that Europeanisation sets a clear framework for Norwegian freedom of action. The communication has a very good description and reality of how the EU affects us in many areas of our society, and it points to the importance of ensuring that Norwegian authorities can be well integrated into EU processes to promote our own views. It immediately struck us that this description presented by the Government was a very good basis of fact for the future European debate. So it's a pretty big surprise that the government can agree on that, so the government parties in the Stortinget can't support it. We have tried to get the Storting to consider that this part of the message is of special value because it constitutes a common sense of reality and can form a common basis of fact for the European debate in the future. The Government Parties do not agree that the Government’s evidence base on Europe should serve as a common description of reality. My question to the government parties is: What is it they disagree with in the government's message? I am pleased that the Foreign Affairs Committee is now gathering to explore our experience with the EEA Agreement and the future challenges. It's not because we're going to re-examine what kind of connection we're going to have, but because it's important to see that when the world around us changes, when the EU gets more members, we also fear that the EEA Agreement contributes to a marginalisation as a form of association for us. But let's check this out: are we getting more marginalized? Are we getting too little influence? And: Is it time for a new European debate? There can be no public selection to help, but they may be able to form some government parties, namely a common reality of how progress is being made.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e604	As he said, the Minister for Foreign Affairs can be satisfied with both the position and the debate on the consensus on the broad lines of Norwegian foreign policy – that is good for Norway – and we all have a responsibility to contribute to this on the real basis that may be present. But I think the head of the Foreign Affairs Committee went a little far in his post when he described the consensus on the red-green side almost like an idyll. One should not be a sharp foreign policy observer to have come to realize that there are strong tensions in the red-green alliance of foreign policy. But the right thing to do is: it has been agreed to disagree on the NATO issue, on the EU/EEA issue, and one has ‘fighted’ through some tough blows both in government negotiations, in the government, here in the hall and out in the lawn outside the Storting. It is about Israel-Boikott, it is about where in Afghanistan Norwegian soldiers should be, it is about fighter planes and rocket shields, and it is about globalisation, etc. But now leave it. At the bottom of this debate, I'm not going to go up a new round about it. On the other hand, I feel a need after the exchange of lines between Anne Margrethe Larsen and the Minister for Foreign Affairs on the global funds to remind both the Left and the rest of the Storting that we have treated St.meld a few days ago. No 13th@item: A unanimous committee said: ‘The Committee has noted with satisfaction that the Government can disclose that in a few years these funds have developed prominent roles in their fields, both in terms of size and performance. The government believes that the funds and the United Nations system complement each other well and stimulate each other to make a solid effort. The funds can show good results in a few years. The Committee has noted that this has been made possible, inter alia, by the United Nations system, which is dependent on the funds to generate its own results. It is important that the future development of the UN structures takes into account the connectivity and hosting functions of the international funds, which safeguard their distinctive and flexible roles and at the same time give them a place in the global cooperation architecture.» I think it is important for further work on Norway's efforts both through these funds and in the UN in general that this should be established as a unanimous position on the part of the Stortinge.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e616	I want to address the question of nuclear weapons because I believe there is a space in the world today to discuss the role of nuclear weapons in the future security structure of the world. Here in Norway we have taken as a starting point that we, among other things. does not invest our money, our pension fund money in nuclear weapons. It's just the Progress Party that we think we should do it. We follow up on the whole wish, as among others. Barak Obama brought on the track, to make sure to work for a nuclear-free world. I have to admit that when I sat and watched Barak Obama’s speech in Berlin during the U.S. election campaign, I was very encouraged. There he expressed just what he wanted, that is, the desire to work hard towards a nuclear-free world. I believe that it must be possible to follow up that rhetoric. We see that there have been American and European former heads of state who have been on the road and said that we need a reorientation and a new focus in this debate. We have also had former Norwegian prime ministers and foreign ministers who have been on the field and said that this is about taking the chance and getting a discussion. I myself am in the committee of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly which is just working on the issue of non-proliferation, where the situation in both Iran and North Korea is central, and where there is a proper debate. And I was very happy when Jens Stoltenberg at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly here in Oslo raised the very question of nuclear weapons, and said that this is one thing we have to discuss. I think we should use the space in the debate to discuss how we can move closer to a situation where we have less nuclear weapons in the world. There is no doubt, as Marit Nybakk was inside his post, that the main responsibility for the further disarmament lies with the two nations that have the largest stocks of strategic nuclear weapons today. But we also have to look at other grips. We have to be involved in opening that debate. From the point of view of the SV, we believe that, in the context of the discussion that is now taking place on NATO’s strategic concept – where Americans are likely to be on the road later this year – we should, in the light of the role that we have in the seven-country group, be involved in bringing up a debate on, among other things. should discuss – and from our point of view remove – NATO’s first-bait strategy. A discussion on this matter should be considered in the context of the strategic concept. We should discuss and, from our point of view, also go in order for Europe to become a nuclear-free zone. There is a room for debate here, and Norway has a role to play before the debate is locked.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e629	Just a brief comment to Mr Ågot Valle, who stressed that what she called the 'no' side, is not against our cooperating with the European Union. It is to this extent reassuring, but I do not think we can describe our relationship with the European Union as cooperating with the European Union. We are deeply integrated into EU cooperation. In fact, we are more integrated into EU cooperation than the United Kingdom. The EEA Agreement is not a cooperation on the internal market. It makes us part of the internal market, where we must implement the law that the EU countries have first agreed on, on their part, through a slightly special mechanism because we are not to be a member. What creates the challenges for the democratic deficit and our ability to care for our own interests is that we have this special design where we are not part of the decision-making process. In this sense, I think getting a review, an investigation or what you'll call it, which really gets these perspectives on the table in the next period, will be very useful and a good basis for the debate. I think very few have taken on board what has happened in the last 15 years, namely that every time the EU has expanded its cooperation to new areas, whether there are new cooperation projects in education, in public health, in the media or in the Internet, we have pulled up our hands and said that we will be there. No one has been against it, because we think it makes a lot of sense. The reason why we can participate in this broad cooperation in Europe is that there are some countries that are willing to maintain and further develop EU cooperation. If everyone had thought like Norway, that we should be involved in what we want and not what might be a little more demanding for us, this would not have existed. The second foundation for this is the EEA Agreement, which provides the basis for us to participate in things that everyone thinks make sense for countries to cooperate on. To call this a cooperation between Norway and the EU I think is to extend the concept of cooperation a little longer than what we normally think of it. We're deeply integrated into it. We're part of the cooperation that a small majority said no to us being a member of 15 years ago. There has been such a veil of silence over this reality in Norwegian politics, precisely because the very question of membership has been such a sore and difficult matter. Hopefully, reflection around this can also change that wound, so that we might be able to take a closer look at this on a more informed basis as we approach the end of the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e642	The Head of the Foreign Affairs Committee boasted in its intervention the unhinderedness of the foreign policy consensus and action shown by this government. He said it shows that the scare pictures that were shown in the election campaign last time were without a basis. Now I don't know what scares it's intended for, but at least for my part it was what was pointed out in the election campaign last time, that it would cause some problems if the established opposition to foreign and security policy in the Great Britain throughout all the years moved to the government quarter, because it is the first time in Norwegian history that there is a coalition where the parties involved are fundamentally in disagreement in the area of the King's, that is, the government's sole responsibility, namely foreign and security policy. It started at the entrance of this ageing period by moving a large part of the SV’s staging group out of the staging room and out into the lawn outside. It was rightly pointed out that there were some problems. In a debate earlier this week the SV's parliamentary leader declared in a completely different matter that in this, as in all other matters, SV is behind the Government. In four years you have moved from standing in front of the Storting to being placed behind the Government! This leads to a very large democratic deficit in the Norwegian foreign policy debate. This means that, to the extent that there is still a foreign and security policy opposition, it is not visible and audible in the public space, and at least not where it belongs, in the main hall. Instead, it is only present in the back rooms, behind closed doors of the Government. I don't think that's any progress. It represents a significant democratic deficit. The fact that it also has to represent significant problems for those parties that have locked themselves together to pretend that they agree enough to be responsible for foreign and security policy is not a headache for us, but it is the democratic deficit, namely that we no longer have any visible and audible foreign policy opposition in Norway. It's a considerable cost. Those who, in other areas, are very concerned about democratic deficits when they occur elsewhere in the world should perhaps take a little interest in it when it is so obvious that it also occurs in Norway. It is now spoken as if the foreign policy consensus is characterised by a wall-to-wall carpet, which is as extensive as the floor carpet here in the staging room. Everyone knows that's not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e655	That, I must say, was a strange introduction to democracy! That the people have decided in elections, and that three parties who are ready to form government form government, form government and rule for four years, that it is a democratic and foreign policy deficit – strange! Obviously, when there are three parties, it's not one party. There is not consensus in all matters, but one discusses itself until agreement. In the previous government, there was one party that was a strong supporter of EU membership, two were not. They found a way in European policy, a central area for Norway. We've also found good ways in this government. I fully agree with the analysis that says we are doing very well when we look back at the accounts. Norwegian foreign policy is well anchored in a long tradition, while at the same time being willing and able to take new initiatives and bring about changes. I believe that we would like to have responsibility and a majority alone, as all parties would wish. But it has been an enrichment that there have been several parties, and it is very positive that it is now that all Norwegian parties, with an honest and welcome exception, have had government responsibility. And it is a foreign policy opposition in Norway today that is very clear, and it is the Progress Party, which, as in other areas, has different views, different approaches and other assessments of how Norway should promote its interests. To the representative of Dørum, I would like to say: yes, it is a good and important point to evaluate experience. I can only assure you that, of course, we are going to evaluate experiences with the Sri Lanka exposure as well. There has been a significant methodological upgrade in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of how we evaluate that type of exposure. The problem/possibility here is that the matter is not over. There are almost 300,000 people living in clay, heavily exposed, so I think that Norway should follow developments closely, and also be aware that we still have a special position in relation to the conflict on this island, and if we can contribute to progress, we should at least not reject it in the outing. Then I would say to Heikki Holmås that it is absolutely right – I fully agree with that analysis – that there is space in the nuclear field. What Obama and others have said when they came to power are things that this government has been working for for four years. A vision for a world without nuclear weapons, Norway has been working for it through the Seventh Framework Programme, and we have received international attention on it. When I, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, thanked those who are now leaving the Foreign Affairs Committee, there were several people I did not mention. It illustrates that it is a challenge for this growth that experienced foreign politicians will not be here in the next period. Of course, this applies to the representatives of Olav Aksensen, Åslaug Haga, Ågot Valle, as well as Finn Martin Vallersnes and Vidar Bjørnstad. And as I have said before, and as I repeat here, no good debate without Inge Wohnung! So we can look forward to future debates with limited enthusiasm and will miss him here in the foreign debate too.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e672	I asked for the word to put the missing at least for a moment. The Foreign Minister was obviously surprised at my use of the concept of democratic deficit. It was well intended that he would be. What I tried to point out, as a counter-representation to the production of speakers from the government parties, is that everything in this world has a cost, and moving the established foreign policy opposition from Parliament and into the government quarters necessarily leaves an empty space in the public debate on foreign and security policy. And it leaves at least a vacuum in Stortinget. I do not think it is right to say, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs, that the Progress Party covers that vacuum, because the special points of reference of the Progress Party, which also emerges from this position, are entirely marginal in character compared to the fundamental distinction between parties that are followers of the Allies Association Norway has had for 60 years, and parties that are opponents of it – and have constantly profiled themselves and actually owes their existence to the fact that they are opponents of the alliance policy and NATO membership and all that goes with it. In fact, it has been the fundamental distinction in the Norwegian foreign policy debate over 60 years, and the fact that the distinction is no longer made in Parliament when discussing a big message about Norwegian foreign policy was what I was aiming to do with the use of the expression democratic deficit. You can, of course, if you want to be very accurate, instead call it a parliamentary deficit, but it is actually the cost of the foreign opposition moving into the government quarters, and therefore no longer comes into public space. The costs incurred by the parties involved in this matter are, as I said, other irrelevant, but the cost of the existence of clear dividing lines with regard to Norway’s main orientation in the policy of alliances is no longer present in audible and visible form is a problem. The comfort must be that after the election to the harvest it will certainly come back again, and then it will have the exact same character as before.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e681	It must be the core of conservatism not to want to let go of divisions, and what has existed in 60, it's bad to see maybe no longer exist. I have no doubt that you can read both the SV's program and the program of the Center Party and find assessments that differ from what is the direction in the setting we have debated here today. But it is almost irreprehensible to say to the representative that he reads the setting. The lots are behind what it says. That is what counts in parliamentary terms. Then it's also the way to evaluate the differences you can have about the ideal possibilities in the world as being manageable in relation to what you can do by going together. But if it were to happen as the representative of Wage hopes – and as it is not going to happen – that there will be changes to this at the elections, his party is prepared to move into the government offices with the Progress Party, which he believes stands for completely marginal differences in relation to the Right. I think that is quite surprising in the case of a party that wants to halve Norway's efforts for solidarity in the world, which has a party leader who believes that the UN is a threat to world peace and was in favour of participation in the war in Iraq. Are these marginal issues? A progress party that is twice as large as the Right is going to weigh enough in that context, and then we will see how it will be assessed whether there will be such debates. But those debates I think will be more in the media and not in the room, because it's not going to be real.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e686	Ågot Valle had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e690	I can confirm that in the program on which we are going to vote, there are shades of disagreement between the parties. But that's enriching. That is what has done that we are very well at being in government and have been able to move Norwegian foreign policy. If one goes back and reads previous debates, one sees how willing the Right Party and the Advance Party in any case have been to follow the United States. It's just to look at the debate about engagement both in Iraq and in Afghanistan. This government has to be independent, has to speak against the Bush regime's mercenaries. It has the courage to speak with a clear voice on the missile shield, on disarmament and on Palestinian policy. We're very happy to have been there, and I'd like to be there for you too.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e695	No salary has been given the word twice before and gets the word to a short score, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e698	Both the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I are clearly strong in the faith as to what is going to happen in September. But faith issues I don't want to discuss in Stortinget. What I've been trying to point out is that it represents a problem when the party that from the creation of has defined itself as the foreign policy alternative in Norway, today has chosen to place itself behind the Government, simply because it necessarily means that SV is currently responsible for and behind practically all the positions that the party has been opposed throughout its history, and that they were criticised in this hall for and together when they were in opposition. This means that, as a result of this government constellation, SV has become even disdainfully characterised in the previous period as a puddle – even a newly-tripped puddle.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e705	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3641]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e722	Actually, we could have discussed these two issues in the same debate, because St.meld. No 40 concerns not only humanitarian aid but also humanitarian diplomacy, humanitarian policy and humanitarian law. It is, in fact, difficult to distinguish what is stated in this Communication from the debate we have now had on the Communication on Foreign Policy. However, I will go through some of the areas mentioned in the message, and what the setting also joins. I start by reproducing what Erik Solheim has said, namely that humanitarian aid and humanitarian engagement are necessary in crisis situations, in vulnerable countries, in post-conflict areas, in natural disasters. However, policy is most important. When the Storting addressed the call for preventive humanitarian aid last April, a comprehensive Foreign Affairs Committee was specifically concerned with the link between emergency aid, long-term aid projects and development policy. Prevention of humanitarian disasters and crisis relief is important for poverty reduction and for the achievement of the UN’s Millennium Goals. Vulnerability of humanitarian and environmental disasters is largely synonymous with poverty. To create development, we need to ensure that individual communities are robust. At the same time, achieving the Millennium Goals is also important to prevent crises and humanitarian disasters. These are permanent structural changes that prevent disasters, eliminate poverty and ensure sustainable development. An important recognition is that the interaction between humanitarian and long-term aid is important. But there is also the interaction between aid and important structural development processes. After the Court of Auditors and the Audit Committee of the Innst. S. No 150 for 2008-2009 highlighted these contexts, deepening St.meld. No 40 Norwegian humanitarian engagement policy as part of a comprehensive foreign and development policy. The Committee stresses the importance of the capacity of countries to protect their citizens from conflict and crisis and to provide them with a safe framework for human and economic development. As I said in my speech on the previous matter: Unfortunately, humanitarian work, international law and emergency aid have had very tight conditions in recent times. Maybe the worst is what's happening in Sri Lanka. In the war between the government forces and the Tamils, the Tamil people, including the tigers, were literally slaughtered. Just the story will tell if this bloodbath was a genocide. The government refused access to the area by the UN and other relief organisations. We saw some of the same thing during the Burma cyclone, where the brutal military regime said no to foreign humanitarian aid. In other natural disasters, we have actually seen that the authorities have not provided the people with the help they needed. Even in New Orleans, it was unfortunately a reality. The State social security system did not work. This is serious. Our starting point must be that humanitarian values are universal. Vulnerable people, people in distress, in war and in conflict have the right to obtain the necessary help and the right to be protected from abuse. But unfortunately, we have more examples in recent history of the world society, including the United Nations, being passive and paralysed, while regimes have committed abuse against their own people or in other ways have contributed to suffering. It was a milestone for the UN when the Summit in September 2005 adopted Responsibility to Protect. We have had a thorough debate on this decision earlier in connection with an interplay by the representative of Vallersnes. The Communication underlines that the consensus on Responsibility to Protect raises new challenges when the international community is faced with concrete situations where the principle is difficult to operate. However, it is essential that the UN Decision of 2005 be consolidated and not undermined. Obligations to follow up the intentions of practical action must be established through the obligation of international law. Perhaps we need a new humanitarian diplomacy, as the message asks about, the need for and the right to access the needy, and the security of the relief organisations. Then there are also ever new groups of vulnerable people — those living in slum areas around the big cities, or simply older people without an economic safety net. In addition, climate refugees, who often fall outside the rights and assistance required by refugees under the UN Convention on Refugees, come. Some are internally displaced; others are perceived as migrants. It is important to discuss the international legal situation of this group and ensure that they receive the protection they require. The Committee therefore reiterates its comments on climate change refugees from last year's April. I would also like to stress that more women than men are affected by disasters. More women than men actually die in conflicts. Seven of ten who are hit by hunger, are women. Women and girls in exile are particularly vulnerable to violence and sexual abuse in connection with armed conflicts. Since the majority of the world's poor are women, they are also more vulnerable in disaster situations. In fact, this is also true in a rich country like Japan — at least it was a rich country. Under the earthquake in Kobe in 1995, half a time as many women died as men, because older women lived in poor homes. I also refer to the Norwegian Action Plan to follow up Security Council Resolution 1325, and to the treatment of the Women's Communication and Development Communication. Then I have a little follow-up to what Ågot Valle brought up in the previous case. I believe that, in the case of Afghanistan, it is essential, first of all, that the forces sent out have proper training on Resolution 1325. Secondly, I think this again underlines that we must have more female soldiers and officers in our forces in Muslim countries. This does not apply only in Afghanistan. If we, for example, should go into Darfur at some point, it is absolutely necessary there as well. It also calls for 1325. Finally, the message elaborates and endorses the administrative criticism of the National Audit Office in this field, including: by referring to the five-year strategy presented in September 2008. Furthermore, just as it has been said, a unanimous committee is in line with the humanitarian priorities proposed in the communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e752	I agree with the representative Nybakk that it is good that these messages have been taken into account, and I am pleased that we have a completely unanimous position here in this important area of Norway. I'll limit myself to some observations. First of all, I would like to thank the Committee for the possibility of getting this into port, because it was a bad time. But it is very good that the two have come at the same time and end up in Stortinget at the same time. It gives a fine face to a foreign policy debate at the end of this session. The conflict in Gaza and in Sri Lanka has given us a lesson in how effectively national authorities can put obstacles in the way of necessary assistance. That's a big agenda we have to travel, I was in on it in my previous post. So it's not that we can take humanitarian principles for granted. We must work harder to respect humanitarian law and principles such as humanity, neutrality, impartiality and independence. This is essential to ensure prompt assistance for those in need. New groups of needy people are likely to be at the centre of the years to come. There are slumpers, an increasing number of older people, women – who are not a new group, but their vulnerability is known, and here we get new knowledge. And, as the committee has addressed, we have challenges from climate. With regard to the Committee's wish to have a public-law assessment of that matter, I share that view. We have discussed it in the past, but climate refugees are a difficult and partly controversial concept. There is little research and knowledge on this topic. In the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have supported the work of the Refugee Aid investigation in this area, and the topic is also discussed during the climate negotiations in Bonn, which take place in these days. I believe that these negotiations will test out both the very concept and the challenges it raises. Then we need to look at where and how we can follow up the debate in other forums. Among others, the Refugee Aid and the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, it is natural to discuss this with. In 2008, more than 20 million people were displaced by climate-related natural disasters — floods, droughts, extreme weather. In addition, we expect that 16 million were displaced by natural disasters not caused by climate change, such as earthquakes, volcanic eruptions and tsunamis. It says something about how big the challenge is. I believe that with this communication, we have formulated clear priorities for Norwegian humanitarian aid, Norwegian humanitarian diplomacy, Norwegian humanitarian assistance and our efforts for more sustainable and resilient social development in the countries with which we work. We need a renewed humanitarian diplomacy on access to the needy, security for humanitarian aid personnel and increased national efforts on the prevention and adaptation side, and we need more donor countries around the table. I believe it is important that, in particular, the G20 countries, which are now forming – the world's most powerful club – increase their contribution to multilateral efforts significantly in the coming years. Many of them border the conflict areas of the world, and we are directly or indirectly affected by them. Some of them, such as China, India and Japan, even often experience extensive natural disasters. Finally, the Government has strengthened the management of humanitarian aid, so that it is now more rapidly and effectively to reach people as it is intended to help. We follow up on the administrative audit of the National Audit Office, which has recently been dealt with by the Stortinget. We're going to get better at seeing operations and investments in the context – to use such an expression. We cannot properly manage Norwegian aid funds without adequate resources being allocated to management and follow-up. We also strengthen cooperation with voluntary organisations. Without prejudice to Storting's consent, we are taking a step forward in the development of the Norwegian tradition of cooperation with the organisations, by facilitating a clearer profile in cooperation with the individual organisations, and not least with a more long-term perspective in the agreements we conclude, which creates better predictability for the organisations. At the same time, we will follow up on the evaluation side in a more systematic way than before, in cooperation with, among others. NORAD.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e773	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3642]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e790	No one has asked for the floor. [[Footing, see page 3642]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e807	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e816	The Municipal and Management Committee has examined St.meld. No 25, which assumes that everyone should have real freedom to live where they want to. It is about ensuring equivalent living conditions and using resources throughout the country. There is a broad consensus within the Committee to maintain the main features of the country's housing pattern and further develop our great diversity in history, culture and resources. An overall committee shares the objectives and ambitions set out in the Communication. The disagreement within the Committee is linked to the political approach that will ensure real freedom of choice in terms of residence, and there is a difference of view as to whether the notification will have an impact on centralisation. To counteract centralisation, we rely on offensive and comprehensive district policies. There is agreement to pursue a regionally differentiated policy in several policy areas. The Committee's position therefore concerns a number of issues in several policy areas, and I believe that the members of the Committee from the various parties will present their priorities and proposals in the further debate. The entire Committee believes that all municipalities need efforts for social development, not just those who are economically weak, as the Storing Communication suggests. However, the Committee sees that underprivileged municipalities need an extra effort. A broad majority of the Committee, consisting of the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left, believes that areas and municipalities with small labour markets, population decline and one-sided industrial structure have special challenges. Should a safe settlement in District Norway, there must of course be good work opportunities. Access to housing is also a fundamental prerequisite for achieving the objective of real freedom of residence. Some districts experience relocation because there is a lack of suitable housing. People who want to move from one dwelling to one block apartment have to move closer to towns or cities. The Committee considers that through the Husbanken it is necessary to encourage municipalities to facilitate the construction of different types of housing. It is more difficult to reconstruct in districts because construction costs are often high in relation to market value. It makes building in the districts more risky. A broad majority of the Committee, all other than the Right and the Advance Party, considers it important to strengthen the county council as a regional development actor. The administrative reform provided the county council with several tasks that strengthen this role: ownership of Innovation Norway, transfer of other national roads, regional research funds and increased responsibilities in cultural areas. It is also important that adequate funds are allocated to these tasks if the county authorities are to have a chance to carry out the tasks. Adequate regional development funds must be allocated to all counties. A Joint Committee considers MERKUR to be an important tool to ensure access to basic daily supplies of goods and private services in smaller areas, and welcomes the fact that the experience of the MERKUR can also benefit petrol providers. The Committee considers that a separate scheme of investment aid for retail outlets participating in the MERKUR programme should be established. The Committee therefore asks the Government to submit proposals on who will manage such a scheme. The investment aid shall be additional to the development aid scheme. The Committee would stress the importance of such an investment aid scheme being in place during 2010. So finally, North Norway has special challenges related to scattered settlements, long distances and small labour markets, and must be given priority in regional policy efforts. The Christian People's Party believes that the Namdalen in the North Trøndelag has many of the same challenges as the three northernmost states, and should have North Norway conditions and be incorporated into schemes involving the three northernmost states. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we are really going to reach the intentions that lie in the name of St.meld. No 25, namely ‘Local Growth and Future Threat’. Those are strong words – ‘growth and threat to the future’. The notification has measures such as a new business environment programme, a programme of action for young entrepreneurship, a mentoring scheme for entrepreneurs and the strengthening of the county council — a series of measures, but are they strong enough to stop centralisation and increase rural living? The Christian People's Party believes that an even more offensive policy is needed than the majority put forward in several areas. If we are to have a turn on housing construction, we need to assess new and courageous measures, such as district subsidies through the House Bank and VAT refund for the construction of dwellings in pig-grown areas, and we need to dare to assess industrial policy measures, which I will come back to later in the debate. I take up the proposal of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e844	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e847	The announcement we are dealing with today, Local Growth Force and Future Threat, is a follow-up of St.meld. No 21 for 2005-2006, Heart for the whole country, which we treated in the Stortinge two years ago. Despite a historical growth in the population, developments show a clear centralisation, and the population is declining or stagnating in both small and medium-sized urban areas. For the Government and the Workers' Party, it is important to use the whole country. For us, it is important to show that we want and that we believe in a good future in the districts. We humans are different and have different perceptions of where and how we want to live. That's why it's important that we make sure that people have a real choice. This means that we need to put in place some special measures for the districts. This will include, inter alia: say that people must have access to a good public service throughout the country. Of course, the existence of jobs and the possibility of housing is crucial. If this is the case, while recreational services of different kinds are available to people of all ages, it is the key to creating attractive communities and residential areas. Municipalities themselves have a central role and responsibility to create attractive communities. In order to provide good services, of course, good local economy is important, which this government has contributed positively to. The new regional policy grant, linked to the local economy, is an important contribution in terms of service provision and development work in many district municipalities. An offensive regional and district policy needs to be pursued in many areas in order to ensure settlement throughout the country, and the Communication places particular emphasis on the role of the municipality as a social developer. The importance of building up a good image for municipalities has been underestimated. It is clear that many municipalities need more competence in the construction and marketing of their own municipality. Not everyone is just as good at focusing on the advantage and on the potential that is just in their own municipality. That's why we're happy that there's now a focus on this, and that the department has launched a program to help the municipalities in this work. There are many themes in this message I could talk about. However, workplaces are undoubtedly the most important means of maintaining their housing in the districts. Differentiated employer’s fee is an important step and an effective district policy instrument for jobs and employment. The government has focused on getting this scheme reintroduced as far as possible. It may in practice have saved many jobs and been important for the creation of new ones. Access to high-capacity broadband provides increased value creation and productivity in business and is an important prerequisite for innovation and sustainable growth across the country. I am therefore pleased that the government is working to make this offer even better, and that they will define targets for access to faster broadband. The creation of new state jobs outside the major cities is also a misguided policy for this government and good rural policy. Primary industries are an important part of employment and value added in districts. A living agriculture is important for the countryside's external face, it is important in a global environmental perspective, it contributes to our food security, and it maintains housing and jobs. There has been a dramatic decline in the number of farms in recent years. My own home country is one of those hard hit. The government, through various measures, will stimulate new recruitment in agriculture and through, inter alia, BU funds contribute to the promotion of profitable and sustainable industrial development in and in relation to agriculture. Providing skilled jobs, which are important for establishing young people, is one of the main challenges facing many district municipalities. In this context, I must say that I am pleased with the opportunities that the planned interaction reform will provide in this way. I am very pleased that we have a government that understands the importance of a good district policy. District and regional policies consist of a wide range of instruments. The Storing Communication provides a good overview of these instruments and provides a good basis for achieving our objectives in rural and regional policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e873	The message we are discussing today contains concrete details of the Government's view of the division of roles and responsibilities between the state, the county councils and the municipalities in the district and regional policies as a result of the new division of tasks following the management reform. The current government expressed major and ambitious changes in regional and regional policy, where a great deal of power and responsibility was to be delegated from magnification to county councils and municipalities. This created great expectations among county and municipal politicians and most people around the country, and rightly so. The representatives from the government party traveled around the country preaching that growth and development would now take place. What was the result? Yeah, it's even with a big belly pad, where the county councils and districts only got responsibility for miles by road that, according to TV from the Minister of Transport himself, was so poor and worn out that they couldn't get any worse. I would say that this government has led the strongest policy of centralisation to which we have witnessed. In all areas it was to bet on, and as it was supposed to shine off, for these four years, we've seen basically just squatters around the municipalities. The Progress Party is of the opinion that a few viable districts are dependent on offensive and constructive policies such as self-help, local initiative, growth and optimism. This must be facilitated by the authorities, stimulate the good forces of our local politicians, and have a positive and responsive attitude to those who want to bet locally. At the same time, local politicians must be given full jurisdiction over their own municipalities, without the county council or county council being able to review local government decisions. The party of progress believes that there must be room for choice, where one can choose each one to bow and work. Man must be in the center. We want to exploit the possibilities of District Norway by pure-breding. We will free creators and founders, reduce bureaucracy, strengthen local democracy and guarantee ownership. This can be achieved by pursuing an incentive policy rather than a regulatory policy. The government has, through the administration reform and the new plan-making, failed its right to govern the municipalities and to transfer power to the county councils and county councillors. This will reduce local authorities’ ability to use local resources and exploit the natural benefits of municipalities and districts. The policy objective must be to further develop the Norwegian welfare society, provide work for all, increase value creation, achieve a fair distribution and stimulate long-term and sustainable development. The Progress Party has proposed to reverse the tax increase for business and to focus more on research and development. We are now in a financial crisis and a debt crisis. The role of equity in business will again be of great importance. Property taxes and inheritance taxes attack equity and weaken the ability of industry to strengthen and develop, to create new products and to secure existing jobs and to further develop new ones. The district is entirely dependent on small and medium-sized enterprises and family businesses. Traffic and communication are central to creating growth in the districts. Each enterprise and product must have effective access to the market, and access to fast and efficient infrastructure increases the labour market. Thus, an essential roadlift is very central to speeding up in District Norway. Therefore, the Progress Party has presented its own transport plan as a holistic alternative to the Government's NTP, where we want to use new tools to ensure that Norway can quickly get a more modern and safer transport sector. The party of progress will claim that it is especially the districts that are being negatively affected by the government’s proposal that county municipalities be given the primary responsibility for the roads in the district, without adequate funding. The Progress Party will work for open borders and for a trade policy to enable us to maintain and develop jobs in District Norway. This is not least true of the heavy export industries along the coast. The Progress Party believes that the busses in District Norway cannot be secured primarily through public workplaces and a series of public appeals. The most important thing to ensure growth-intensive regions throughout the country is a business that is able to take care of and create new jobs. The Progress Party will emphasise that several of our public welfare arrangements originate from voluntary work. The voluntary sector has a great deal of self-esteem. What has been created on the basis of a voluntary commitment turns out to be an ex-post contribution to the creation of good communities. This will exempt the voluntary sector from VAT. Finally, I would like to address the suggestions from the Progress Party that we have with the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e907	The representative Åge Starheim has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e910	Thousands of mills in agriculture have fallen. People move, centralisation increases, and cross-border schools are laid down – just to take a few examples. Developments have not slowed down with the red-green government, on the contrary. Never has centralisation gone so fast, and never has the relocation of state jobs gone so slowly. The right-center government has moved out a thousand state jobs. The red-green has moved out a handful, most of which ended up in Ås, a small train ride from Oslo. There will be no viable settlements of that policy. The big message we are dealing with today does not in any way imply a change of pace. It's gray, and it's boring. This was demonstrated not least by the press release sent by the government itself when the staging message was submitted. The point raised was a new support scheme for community entrepreneurs. Small money is distributed to local communities, while the large money is drawn and centralized to Oslo. Local communities are becoming increasingly dependent on the state and more and more dependent on the capital. The government has only two standard responses. The first is that one wants a little bit more of the same medicine, which doesn't work, and the second is to introduce more regulation and more restrictions, which in reality makes it more difficult to take advantage of the benefits that one has locally. Right has faith in completely different solutions than this. We want to free creation, free the founder, reduce bureaucracy, strengthen property rights and strengthen local democracy. We will develop roads and infrastructure in the districts, creating a basis for growth and development. We believe that District Norway has huge resources, if people are allowed to use them. We believe that those who live in District Norway have a lot to do with and a lot of creativity, if they are allowed to take advantage of it. We believe that the main responsibility of the state is to remove the regulations, remove the restrictions and contribute to expanding infrastructure and roads, and not least to withdraw the capital that exists locally. Agriculture has been pervasive for more than one generation without giving particular optimism, growth and development. What about trying a whole new medicine instead of regulation? The policy of depriving farmers of their own values and their own livelihoods and shifting them into a public bureaucracy and into political processes leads to the wrong of farms. Right-wing believes this is a serious infringement of ownership. It creates considerable uncertainty and reduces the farmer’s willingness to take risks — and thus his ability to secure jobs and develop the agricultural industry. Ownership must be strengthened, it must not be weakened. We need more local democracy. We need a local authority to decide if one can use the resources in the beach zone, and that a local community has the opportunity to create living environments that are different from those in the cities, and thus can compete with cities to a greater extent than today. We need to municipalize there 90 pst. of the area has been protected, allows the use of the natural resources available to create economic development in the areas in which the large community wishes to take care of. Today, the conservation of communities means the depletion of communities and the removal of the potential for value creation and the possibility of what can happen locally. The government is committed to transferring responsibility for the main roads in the districts to the counties without providing them with sufficient funding on the road. This means that roads in the districts in the years to come will be downgraded at the expense of the major roads in the central areas. The right-hand side is opposite this. The right considers that the State should continue to be responsible for the main roads in the districts. And we're going to increase the appropriations there, too, so that we can build infrastructure. The big challenge is to create growth-intensive urban areas that are linked to the districts, so that it is possible for a married couple, both of whom have a high level of education, to have jobs where they can develop, look ahead and not least have the opportunity to change jobs. The government's district policy is based on a belief that one person with education can work in the municipality, and the other one works in the farm. With that strategy, District Norway will continue to be depleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e927	Before the President receives the floor, the President will propose an amendment to the text of the debate. The President proposes that there be five replies from members of the Government. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e934	It is possible that the message is grey and boring, but at least there is one thing that is certain: it has not become more exciting after I have read the comments in the settings from the opposition parties. At least there is no more color on a gray and boring message. What the opposition parties have done is to collect comments from previous issues that we have dealt with – and to create ‘total works’ that they clearly perceive as both exciting and colorful. For the rest of us, it's not colorful to read it again and again. I think that the most important thing in terms of district policy is the decentralisation of decisions – moving decisions out, so that those who are responsible out there get it. We can talk about everything we're going to do here at Stortinget, in the Government, etc., but it's important to move the decisions out. And I think one of the most important things about the regional reform or the administrative reform – what you want – is that we have strengthened the county municipalities. They will be given greater responsibility for regional development. Clearly, the local politicians, who have a ownership relationship with what's happening out there, have a significantly greater commitment than what we can mobilize from this pulpit. When they get a greater responsibility, I feel reasonably confident that they will take it, and there will be a new strain in district policy. Education and research are the basis for much of the activity to take place in this country, not least in district policy. Therefore, I believe – and not only do I believe, but I am absolutely sure – that strengthening education, from basic education to higher education, is the basis for new growth in the districts, in District Norway, and also in the central regions of the country. Strengthening and maintaining colleges out there, which are located in District Norway, and providing them with good living conditions, is the basis for local renewal and growth. In this context, it is very important that the new research funds are put in place and that the funds from these research funds are used against the regional institutions. It is important that regional institutions are able to develop good and important research programmes based on the challenges we face regional and local, and that these research funds become an important source of funding for these programmes. So the challenge lies in research and education in general, and that's where we have to put the resources. I want to refer to the MERKUR programme, and the fact that we are now taking a real step so that those covered by the MERKUR scheme can receive investment support for their business. Many of these small shops live on the border to die – I kept saying – and it is important that you can come in with investment support. We've told the government that it should get this in place in 2010, and I expect the government to come up with proposals. Whether it is within the MERKUR programme or that this support is to be provided by other means, the Government is of course given an assessment when it is to present it, but there are at least proposals to enable these shops to receive investment support. This with public infrastructure is important. Here the school is in many ways the hub of society out there, and what we say about the branch schools is important. I expect the government to take it along and look at how the cost distribution is between the county and the municipality in the case of school kissing, so we don't get decisions that don't have all the cost elements in them. I expect the department will look into it. Finally, I want to be a little bold and say that we may not be brave enough when we discuss district policy. What happens is that we usually set up new actions – time and time again. I feel enough that now is the time to have a proper review of all the measures to see if they are coordinated well enough, and whether we get good enough effect out of them. I feel that in this particular area it has been very easy to initiate a new action before we have evaluated the old, and before we have seen them a context. [[President clubs]] That's my challenge to the new big business and to the government. [[President clubs]] Weighed a proper review!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e955	Very nice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e958	Although, to a greater extent than other countries, we have viable small and large communities throughout the country, the continuing centralisation of the population is a challenge to ensure the individual genuine freedom of choice of residence. Many more municipalities have experienced growth in the population due to migration in the last few years — and often from abroad. Migrants from abroad and the settlement of immigrants constitute a major resource that both large and small communities should accept and include in a good way. In moving-motive surveys from the 1970s, work was the most important factor in where people settled. Now people say several other individual preferences as important. In particular, greater emphasis is placed on family and local and environmental quality. The reason why several other factors are higher is that the surveys were conducted in a high economic cycle with good access to work. With good access to work, other factors may become more important, but still work is an important prerequisite for moving to a place. However, local communities must be attractive in other ways as well. Several district municipalities have succeeded in this and have grown in the population due to migration. In order to support the positive development we see in individual municipalities and to assist those who are still lagging behind, we will continue a district policy lift with a number of measures. We will strengthen the regional and regional policy instruments to meet the challenges in vulnerable districts, while at the same time providing the counties with sufficient regional development resources to make them a powerful player. Of course, we must continue the broad rural policy, with a good municipal economy, infrastructure construction and agricultural policy, which are really the most important efforts for the country. I want to deal with some of the issues that I think are important areas of action. Taking the initiative to focus on local community development work in municipalities will help to meet several of the factors that are needed to increase housing. Attractive communities, developed through positive participation and participation, give citizens more life for and off. Making use of the resources of the inhabitants and the potential instead of where they live provide housing, confidence in the future and are attractive. This includes the mobilisation of local fires, youth, enterprises and voluntary teams and organisations. In addition, the fact that we now have district centres means that municipalities have an advisory cooperation partner to identify the best measures. The localisation of state, regional and municipal jobs is an active tool for providing local communities and regions with new resources in the form of jobs, competences and a wider professional environment. Without more skilled jobs outside Oslo, we will not be able to reverse the great attraction of the capital as a place of work. This is also important in order to ensure the city's sustainable infrastructure without excessive growth pressures. In this way, the location of skilled jobs around the country becomes a win-win situation for both Oslo and Norway. We focus more and more on digital all-man rights, and can show that the broadband targets for everyone in the country are well on the way. Lack of broadband access will in practice mean that the freedom to live in Færbøgda in Stjørdal will not be real. In addition, national and international studies show that access to broadband — high-capacity broadband — increases value creation and productivity in business and is an important prerequisite for innovation and sustainable growth. That is why we are defining new targets for access to wider broadband across the country. This is one of the main infrastructure measures to ensure equal opportunities in the future. These three issues, together with the wide range of regional policy instruments, are prerequisites for Norway to continue to have viable communities throughout the country in the future. Only by investing in the whole country will we be able to exploit the potential of our resources, both in terms of people and nature.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e977	The left will have a value creation policy for the whole country, where city and country are interdependent. A modern district policy is to facilitate the development of business, while making it possible for public authorities to create diverse and attractive communities. As a representative of Finnmark, it is natural to use the resource base in the northern part of the country, as an example of the major opportunities available in the districts. The region has considerable competence in, for example: Fosse power, tidal power, wind power and solar energy, as well as large deposits of other natural resources. Fossil energy resources are not eternal, and the industry of the future must be created in line with the objectives of reducing greenhouse gas emissions. The left continues to encourage the Government to put in place a scheme for green certificates as a tool for promoting the purchase of renewable energy. Without green certificates, there will be no establishment for this type of energy, and great opportunities will be lost for the districts. In renewable energy and environmental technologies, there are major future opportunities for mainland Norway. One of the left's responses to such a commitment is climate change, which aims to invest in climate technology, climate change entrepreneurs and environmentally friendly transition of existing businesses. Large countries, such as Germany, France and the United Kingdom, to name a few, will in the next few years put in place large climate investments. Financial crisis and unemployment are likely to accelerate these public investment. Most of these investments will be in renewable energy – wind and sea mills, wave power, tides, bioenergy, solar energy and the development of new technologies that are not yet known. In this perspective, brain power and material technology can become very central export products, which may be based in District Norway. In several areas, we are already leading the world – in underwater technologies and light metals. These are beneficial combinations for district clusters of competence, which will be very important also in terms of getting young people, families with children and people with long-term education to live in the districts. There is no doubt that the districts are changing. Today, over 40,000 farms are uninhabited in Norway, and every year 7 000 use is dropped. At the same time, areas are being evaded, and the Left understands that establishing itself in branches where there is a long way between families with children and where the nutritional basis is one-sided. In the left we think more people want to live in the districts. But perhaps rather in clusters – branches or tuna in the countryside – i.e.. more people than has been the case in Norway. Unfortunately, many too often experience that they do not have the opportunity to do so. The reason for this can be found both in lack of local planning, in rigid intervention by the statesmen related to soil protection and the lack of adaptation of the central law. But it has to be said that it is perceived as strange to see large areas of food soil being built down into central strata, while in the districts it may be completely impossible to get separated from a few square meters of reclaimed pasture for residential purposes. The Left therefore calls on the Government to launch a nationwide project for housing in the districts, bringing people in the establishment phase, local politicians and the community to different local attempts to make use of the opportunities. Culture is also pleasant and important to create well-being and well-being. About half of Norwegian municipalities do not have their own cultural status. Furthermore, many municipalities have a cultural worker in half or less. With local tasks on the one hand and a conglomerate of regional and national project hysteria on the other, it goes without saying that there is a great deal of pressure on the municipal cultural administration. There's little room for doing a whole job and a coordinating function. The left therefore calls for a broader cultural policy on behalf of voluntary cultural life, which gives culture a more active and independent role in the development of society, a cultural policy that chisels out its entirety and coordination, and shows the way to a local cultural promise – not least in the districts. Finally, I would like to stress that the Left will protect the most vulnerable coastal areas from petroleum activity. The community is responsible for ensuring the diversity of species and the ecological chain, and it is very important to ensure the main spawning areas for North Atlantic fish species – and thus the traditional fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e998	In the Soria Moria Declaration, the government promised to implement a district policy lift. We've delivered. We have reintroduced geographically differentiated labour costs, strengthened regional policy instruments, reintroduced municipal food funds, established several seed funds, strengthened efforts for increased land-based value creation in North Norway, seen in action plans to increase the number of entrepreneurs and increase value creation associated with tourism, culture, industry, agriculture and nature. And – as if this were not enough – we have strengthened the municipal economy, increased efforts for road development, increased efforts for racial protection and implemented a major broadband effort for everyone. We have also established a competence centre for district development and implemented efforts to strengthen small communities, urban development and reputation. And we have carried out a management reform that facilitates better regional and locally adapted solutions in several policy areas, in particular areas of transport, R & D and industrial development. What is the big difference between today's big news, St.meld. No 25 for 2008-2009, and St.meld. No 25 for 2004–2005? It is that in 2005 the heading ‘On regional policy’ – the heading today is ‘On district and regional policy’. We believe that there is a need for a general framework for business – something the previous government was busy about – but that is not enough. In addition, we need to have specific sources of development that can stimulate new knowledge-based business development and attractive communities. We must have targeted efforts in many policy areas, such as: challenge, transport and broadband, in order to meet the specific challenges in different parts of the country. It's good to record that we have to get back to the early 1980s before finding the corresponding number of municipalities with growth in the population. We record – through several studies – that moving currents are centralising, but that they can be affected. We see that the labour market and the industrial structure strengthen the central strata. The more important it is with offensive regional policy efforts, and that is what we are warning of. We're going to pass on the differentiated employer fee. We will continue to strengthen the local economy. We're going to take a force for infrastructure development across the country. We need to set new targets for broadband, so that everyone can exploit the potential of ICT – a working group is in the process of doing so. We're going to take the advice of youth seriously. Broadband is entirely decisive for them. One has requested a special program for bublyst. One focuses more on entrepreneurship and on a mentoring system, so that people with good ideas can be followed up by people with experience. We need to pursue an active policy in many areas to promote positive development in all parts of the country. It concerns higher education and research, health, agriculture, fisheries and aquaculture, nature protection, cultural heritage and the location of state activities. In many different areas, we will further develop strategies and value creation programmes, which can provide a basis for exploiting local resources for new activities. We shall pursue an active and entrepreneurial rural and regional policy through work on entrepreneurship, loans and grants for enterprise and through the strengthening of clusters and networks. And so we're going to have to launch an own program to increase the knowledge of bulimia, with the emphasis on young people and immigrants, because it's being asked for. So it's like we can't sit in the department and basically say how we want it to go forward. It's local ideas, the power of growth and the threat of the future. We need to build on active efforts by municipalities and local communities themselves to create attractive communities, services, leisure, housing and the centre environment and to accept and include immigrants. Many municipalities see this. Studies suggest that many municipalities also face challenges in terms of capacity and competence to be strong local development actors. In the big news we announce a commitment to strengthen this work in the municipalities, in closer cooperation with the county councils, which will have a new and strengthened regional development role from 1 January 2010. The aim is for municipalities to be better placed to act as actors in local community development and for regional cooperation to be strengthened to support local community development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1019	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1022	The Council of State ran an unhindered — in and out of the government’s district policy. She pointed out, as I would, how important it is with district policy and with municipalities that are developing. Under this government, however, small schools and community schools around the country have really had bad conditions. I have experienced it so that it has almost monthly been placed in a community school. Why do governments and government parties not want to assess the socio-economic impact of setting up community schools, when we know that there are economic reasons for setting up a school on the part of municipalities, but that you do not expect, for example, to do so. The school kiss? The Council of State was not involved in this important issue. She was into broadband and many other things that are also important. But don't tell me that the community schools and small schools in the municipalities are also important!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1029	I agree with the Advance Party that it is important that each community has a school. But there are different relationships that mean that a school is laid down from time to time. In fact, it might also have to do with pedagogical relationships, because the school is getting too small. These decisions will be taken locally. Where we've strengthened our efforts, giving the municipalities room to strengthen their services locally. That's why these 32 billion dollars are in place in the period. Then there have been various distributions when it comes to scourging and increasing costs for county councils, a cost that goes beyond decisions made in municipalities. It's called the investigation that's done so far that they can't do it completely. It's hard to prove, because there are other squares inside the image, but I'd like to take a closer look at that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1036	The government has investigated the centralisation price. I have said it before, and I say it again, that if such a prize is established, it can be awarded to the red-green government by the municipal minister Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa. This government has centralised decisions through a new planning law – where municipalities have lost their right to dispose of the hundreds of metres of belt, where municipal plans are weakened, and where there is added to more over-management both from the county and from the county. Soil protection is reinforced at the expense of local democracy, and money is drawn from municipalities, for example. the removal of company taxes. This means that local resources are being drawn up and centralised, and power is being reduced locally. Can the Council of State give an example of this communication proposing something that strengthens ownership locally, i.e. the individual owner’s availability of his own resources? Can she give an example of how the notification strengthens local authorities’ ability to use local natural resources?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1045	I'll give Bent Höie a good advice, and that's to read this message even more carefully. So I'm going to give him another advice, because I see that he approaches this message in a very special way, from top to bottom. I have read today that the Right view is disappointed with this message. But if Right had been naked, we had bombed with this message. There are no Right and Central Biggest Politicians from any party we should satisfy, it's the communities out. He could ask why at the KS conference in Finnmark was busy with this big message, and all they wanted here. He can ask why there's baby boom in Dyerøy, why people in Verran are naked with the newly opened local store, why people now move to Røvær, and why Iveland builds a center in his municipality and gets increased mobility. It's because we have some central, general tools, but also because we're focusing our resources so that the municipalities can make better use of the local space.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1054	The Council of State said in its speech that relocation flows can be affected, and that is the Christian People's Party entirely in agreement. If we're going to influence them, we're going to have to seize every field. One of the fields where we miss some grip from the Government is this with housing in District Norway. In District Norway it is risky to build a dwelling. It could cost $2 million. kr to bring up, but the day you move in, it could be worth the top 1 million. kr, because the market value is so much lower in District Norway. I can't see that the government has taken any offensive action against that kind of problem in terms of suitable dwellings, such as apartments and terraced houses, in District Norway. More should be built there. There must be no lack of housing in District Norway, which may affect the flow of the move. I can't see that you've done anything for families to take the risk of bringing up a new house in a district municipality in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1061	Let me begin by commending the representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, for a very good work as a spokesperson. Now, when you're dealing with housing policy, we've for some time been quite content to concentrate on the most difficult housing market. We've spent time, forces and resources there. We are now closed, for 2009 becomes a housing social year. But it's not like we're forgetting the districts. On the contrary, the House Bank is the most important traveler, for example. in the north of Norway and in the districts there. It is also the case that we have a start-up loan experiment – where there is a shared risk – so that several municipalities can benefit from the potential that lies there. In addition, we are very concerned about creating bubbly and strengthening communities' development to fill the empty houses.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1071	I'm very concerned that our young people, for example. in Finnmark, who travels to take an education, especially here in the eastern part of the country, and who wants to move back home after leaving education, will have a greater opportunity to do so than today. It has to be made right for it. How does the Council of State see that we can better facilitate this — both in the form of new skills jobs and in the form of giving families with children the opportunity to take up their duties, for example. the closure of small farms in the districts?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1078	It has been consistently in our work on this big message that we should focus on youth and the future. We've been to three people's meetings to get advice. One of the recommendations referred to in the message is the advice of Granvin Youth Council, which is on page 25 of the message. They point to the importance of both housing and plots, good workplaces that one is exposed to in the vicinity of where a cage, safe and good neighbourhood without crime, good neighbourhoods – one of which must be organised by itself – cultural schools, better and cheaper public transport, better roads and racial protection. The Council also considered that municipalities should cooperate better. The biggest message shows just how important we think it is with decentralised higher education, with skilled workplaces, as broad as possible – therefore also an involvement for future both broadband and for state jobs outside the central east.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1085	The Committee points out that today there are thousands of relocated farms in Norway. At the same time, a study shows that there are 400,000 people who would like to buy a farm. So here's a potential for the development of municipalities. A unanimous committee has also said that it wants to monitor this and look at the issue. Now I'm a little uncertain about the politics of the government parties, because when we listen to the Minister of Agriculture when exactly the same questions are raised, he denies any responsibility, almost, and will not take this on board. What is the policy of the Government in this area now? Will the Council of State do something about this in order to develop the municipalities, when one sees that there is a great potential here – while there is a unanimous municipal committee?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1094	It is true that some of the things relating to agricultural policy are handled in the annual figures, and something is handled in the form of laws and regulations, and in that way we have had a debate where a new piece of legislation has just been put in place in the Grand Duchy. But let me say that I'm busy stimulating the local growth force, and I'm busy stimulating the future threat locally. And I know that there are a lot of communities that are themselves occupied with just this with new industries in many gardening. In addition, for example: in Hallingdal, a unique project that we from the Department of Local and Regional Affairs have supported, which is called Light in all glass. There they map the decommissioned, moved cabins and gardening. Then one goes out and says, "Come here if you're interested in buying a gardener, we'll make the necessary contact." There are already lights in several houses.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1101	So the chord change is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1106	The representative Rolf Rikvam of SV did not like the opposition's proposals or comments. He called them gray and boring. He also said in his post that the whole message was grey and boring. It amazes me a little when such an opinion comes from a representative of the government parties, especially when I can't see that in any way he has helped to color a message with such an important theme as this. On the Committee's many trips around the country, we have met and talked to local politicians and state politicians, and we have talked to business – and everyone comes up with a recipe for a good district policy. It's infrastructure, it's roads, it's ferries, it's trains that go, it's nearby shops that are open, it's community schools that don't go out, and it's the possibility of getting out of town with goods. And not enough: they also want tourists to say in the countryside, but then the infrastructure has to be set up. Major municipalities or municipalities cooperating should have the opportunity to undertake more tasks – and should, in my opinion, have more tasks. There must be a development of cooperation between business and municipalities, education and research institutions in housing and work regions. There is also the key to tourism. Such cooperation must be based on the tasks to be undertaken and they must grow from below. We as bulking have to facilitate this. Everyone does not want – and everyone cannot – to live in the city; this choice must be made by the inhabitants themselves. The municipalities constitute the foundation of the local government and represent the proximity, belonging and potential of influence for the population. I was in my reply to the Council of State that there are thousands of abandoned farms in Norway, while a study shows that there are 400,000 Norwegians who want a farm. It is then clear which issues we have, and we therefore need to identify the need for action to be taken. There is probably a need for a new policy here, and the Biggest should be involved in the development. I feel that there is unanimity in the Committee on this very note and on this policy. It seems that there is a strong distrust of today's agricultural policy when we see that a unanimous committee is involved. I am pleased that the Council of State promised that she would look at this with community schools and the cost of school closure, and that she would base both pedagogical and socio-economic considerations when assessing this. Some have to see the economy both in the municipality and in the county municipality in the context. We can't have it the way it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1125	First of all, I would like to pay tribute to the rapporteur for good work and for the willingness to cooperate in order to get the best possible attitude. I would like to express my pleasure at the fact that with this message and the setting we are going to have an important clarification, and that is that we are going to have a business application. I think a lot of people are happy about that. It's very important, of course, that the county has a central role to play in this, but it's also very important that SIVA is involved, as we see that SIVA is involved today, in a further program. The farms have helped to lay the foundations for many exciting and important jobs in District Norway, and I am absolutely sure they will do so in the future as well. Like several others, I am very pleased with the setting-up of the MERKUR programme, that we should also be able to put in place an investment aid scheme in addition to the development aid in the scheme today. And we're impatient; we want to get this in place in 2010. So the Right Party and the Advance Party say, «A greater proportion of the value added must remain in the community, therefore municipalities must retain a share of the corporation tax.» It appears to be a kind of gift package for District Norway, but the thing is that if there are municipalities in District Norway as well, it is. has significant power revenues, and this will be primarily a major loss project for District Norway. I know how this would turn out, for example. in Hedmark and Uppland: it had become a solid loss project. Because it is not primarily in District Norway that the most tax-intensive municipalities are found in general. This means that the millions will run out of the municipal register in many district municipalities, and even more branch schools will be threatened. I have also registered that the Progress Party has received such heartbreaking care for the branch schools in these times. They will face great challenges. Then it is not possible to go down from this pulpit when one first mentions the Progress Party, without recalling the agricultural policy that the Progress Party stands for, which would represent a death blow to many rural communities if it were to be implemented. That would have disastrous consequences. Had the time allowed, I should have gone into it more closely, but it is well known what negative positions the Progress Party has for transfers, etc. in the case of agricultural policy, that this is not necessary. I just really hope that we don't see it in practice, because then things are really bad with District Norway. But we're in front of an election campaign where we want to guide the voters in what it's all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1145	I am pleased that the Right and Advance Party are concerned about the relocation from farming and from the countryside in general. There's something in common. But unfortunately, it stops there. I have to say I look with light and light to find living settlements with bourgeois recipe. With bourgeois rule, as the Right Party and the Advance Party appear today, the farmer can only forget to be a farmer. The right hand party and the Progress Party will remove the concession law, the ban on sharing, price regulation and ‘other bureaucratic overrides’ as they write in their comments. The Progress Party shall also cut sharply all subsidisation of Norwegian farmers, as they produce agricultural and agricultural land. Norwegian agriculture, which is an important support block in the districts, will then collapse like a short house. Rich villagers want to buy up the farms to have a nostalgic creep in their holidays and weekends. At least this does not contribute to our goal of using Norway as a whole. The message being processed today is a good and informative message, giving local growth power and confidence in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1152	The centre party is on the side with what Norway people love. One of the most popular television series in Norway is now ‘Heaven Blue’, from Ylvingen. Every Sunday evening we sit down, hundreds of thousands of Northmen, and look at the dream of being able to live there one will in Norway, if one wants it. Another popular television series is "There wouldn't be anyone who could take a bow". So there is no doubt that the Norwegian People's Party has a heart for the whole country. And that is what we have seen in district policy too, that there are many who have a heart for the whole country, and the Central Party is a main force in relation to it. This is the second district message we're dealing with in this period. In the previous round, youth organisations mobilised and were consulted. There were ten youth organisations that made their contributions. And we've seen polls where six out of ten young people say they want to live and live in the countryside. If we're going to be able to do that, we need a bunch of tools. In debates like this, it is often about the sharp instruments, such as the MERKUR, which support, among other things. small bookstores, edge shops, which we have introduced, young entrepreneurship, mentoring schemes – a whole bunch of fine words that are almost impossible to understand, but which are very important for those who want to establish themselves with businesses, and get up shops and so on, all around Norway. But most importantly, the broad district policy is linked to the municipalities and the municipal structure. Here, there's a very clear distinction in the hall. The second option uses every opportunity to point out that it is a major disadvantage for the country that we have so many small and different municipalities adapted to local conditions. With regard to the distribution of money, the first thing that the Government did was to strengthen the regional grant, to strengthen the small municipalities. Last spring, we made a balance between the tax-intensive areas of Norway and the tax-weak areas of Norway. The opposition was critical and opposed. And we extended the regional grant to all district municipalities. So on the big, heavy things we've taken hold of. And the most important thing we do is to strengthen the municipalities, so that they have tools. In the case of hospitals, there has been a completely different calm during this period than in the previous period. As far as the transport sector is concerned, there has been a great and strong boost, and we presented an NTP yesterday, which continues to develop it. In the case of agriculture, this government has increased the income opportunities by approx. 5 billion kroner. In the previous period, it was less than $1 billion. Last year the Progress Party had a proposal to cut by 6.2 billion kroner only in budgetary resources. So it's the big structural things that matter the most, and that's what this government has prioritised — in relation to the municipality, in relation to transport, in relation to agriculture, in relation to the reintroduction of a differentiated employer's fee and in relation to the fact that there has been a completely different calm around hospital issues in this period than in the previous period. I believe that with the message that is now on the ground, where there is a great deal of focus on new instruments in the area of acute district policy, people should be able to live wherever they want, and it expresses a desire that we should have development and strength across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1167	In answer to my question, the council gave many tips about what she wanted me to ask for, but she was totally absent from answering the question she received! That is why I have to repeat it: what examples are there in this communication that ownership is strengthened? What are the examples in this Communication that local authorities have the possibility to have greater access to their natural resources? In party speeches, the Centre Party is very good at talking about local self-government, ownership, local initiative and local creativity. But the people who live in the districts experience a completely different reality. For example, they experience in Seatesdal that their ability to control where you can ride snowmobiles is becoming heavily impaired. In Lofoten, they will experience that tourists no longer have the opportunity to sit out and enjoy the midnight sun with a glass of wine because the Government has decided that the tipping time is to be at the end of the clock. 2:00 a.m. The representative, Battle Forces Vedum, pulled out the Ylvingen. Yes, if someone now takes a local initiative on Ylvingen and wants to bring up a building, it probably won't be possible, because on Ylvingen there's not one place outside the hundred meter belt. If someone who owns a farm wants to establish a business, but doesn't want to bet the whole farm, the whole family history of one project – starting a business is always a big risk, and thus a desire to separate a patch of land there, for example. may start a gardening, establish it as a limited liability company and place the property as risk capital – then they will have a clear no from the Centre Party and the bureaucrats because it is contrary to the law of the land and the views of the Centre Party on the sharing of agricultural property. The truth is that for all these people who actually live there, and who have creativity and progress, the biggest obstacle will be that they stick their heads on the roof, the roof that the Center Party in government has created to prevent local development, local creativity and exploitation of natural resources locally.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1176	This debate has shown that there is agreement on common objectives and ambitions, that one should put the whole country into use and maintain the main features of the settlement. However, it has also shown that the well-known political disagreement has emerged with regard to the measures taken to achieve this. The Committee's position also reflects disagreements, for example: in the case of agricultural policy, the view of the county, the number of administrative levels, etc. However, the Committee has also had a good debate on some issues in the more focused district policy, for example. on the new business gardening programme to be implemented, how it should be related to the county municipality as a partner and the relationship with the SIVA. The Committee has also discussed the MERKUR system and wanted to expand it and provide it with investment support, and I am pleased with the overall position in that area. The Committee has then discussed the great concern, namely that a large number of community schools are being set up. The Christian People's Party does not think that the district announcement, or the attitude of the committee, is neither gray nor boring. It's important, it's tense in some areas and it's more descriptive in other areas. But what the Christian People's Party is asking for, are some slightly new, offensive grip. Examples of this are new grips on housing construction. As I mentioned in my post, we want to do some new work in relation to district grants through the Husbank or through VAT reimbursement for construction in areas where it has not been housing for many years. If one does not dare to start such a scheme, at least one can start with an experiment. One of the major deficiencies in Business in District Norway is the lack of capital. The differentiated employer’s fee is a very, very good instrument, but it does not work very well in relation to large companies with profits. In order to attract capital, a company tax must be applied – in order to provide good incentives. It would have been exciting, if one had dared to go for a trial – like a trial project – where one gave differentiated corporate tax to get large companies with capital in their backs to establish their business in economically weak or underprivileged areas. There are great ambitions in this communication, as one should also take great and provocative political action. It's about political courage and the will to really reverse the centralization that we see today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1190	Communication is not easy. I have not said that this message is grey and boring – but I may have had a comment on Bent Höie. Nor have I said that our remarks are gray and boring, rather on the contrary, I believe they are colorful, exciting and important. Communicating from this pulpit is simply not easy when people who sit in the hall and hear can misunderstand so grossly and powerfully. It's almost dangerous to go up here, when you can misunderstand then to those degrees. In any case: the setting and message are important documents. Now I've told you. The progress game could not have read the settings or what we are writing. We're writing about branch schools, we're using the word branch schools. It's possible that there's conceptual confusion there -- they're talking about environmental schools, or something. I don't know what that is. We use the concept of primary schools, I know what that is. If the Progress Party had wanted to read what we write about inter-schools, many of the questions they ask would have been wasted – completely unnecessary. I simply do not understand the point of asking such questions, when we initially communicate it in writing in our comments. So to Bent Höie and these contractors and entrepreneurs who sit out there in Building Norway and are oppressed and more or less gambled. That's the picture he's drawing of these people sitting out there and not getting any chance. Everyone knows that picture is not true. That's not how the world is. If you look at the number of new businesses going on in Norway today, that's pretty good. There's no reason for us to be ashamed of it. So you could say that the number of enterprises that survive may have been too small for a period of time. In the case of entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs out there, everyone sitting in this room knows that if they are to get started, there must be public funds at an early stage – everyone knows it. When it comes to entering risk capital and supporting schemes for those who have good ideas, only public funds are involved – one does not get a bank in this country to enter an early stage. What is important for these entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs who sit out there and have it hurt and are oppressed are public funds and that Innovation Norway has good programmes, so that we can make this work. That's what it's all about, you know, everyone who's wanted to keep up in the class. There's one danger here, it can easily be nostalgia. We must not let TV programs like ‘There would be no one to believe that anyone could bow’ be in charge of this. We have to avoid becoming nostalgic. Then I want to say one thing in the end: the farmer knows best about agricultural policy. Yeah, I also think the farmer knows best, as an individual and collectively. I am absolutely sure that the farmer knows quite a lot and is quite good at acting collectively. As far as Hurtigruten is concerned, which has been commented on and written side up and down, it is obvious that those who run it do not know best – because we know best there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1207	The representative of Reikvam is right at one point. In fact, ‘the farmer knows best’. If you think that the farmer knows best, that means that you also have to pursue a policy where the farmer is allowed to do what the farmer wants. Integrating agricultural policy into this – it is clear that it is an important part of rural policy – is what many see as the biggest problem, a heavy state that has passed through this industry to the unrecognizable. Whether you're talking about concessions, price regulation, sales restrictions, living and working obligations, or, in general, bureaucracy, which is now a clumsy hand over the Norwegian farmer, it goes without saying that you're coming into the situation you're in; it's going to be used – with the Central Party in government – faster than ever before. Deportation in districts is at its highest when the Central Party is allowed to implement its government policy. It's a fact. The problem is that at this point – when we talk about the districts, and when we talk about agriculture – old political dogmas that have expired in all other contexts, as if plan economy as a principle, as well as being the only source of satisfaction for that industry and for the districts. But the point is that if you want sustainable districts in Norway, you have to do what has worked in all other contexts in the history of Western civilization – without taking too much of a word in my mouth: nutrition and freedom for each founder to realize opportunities, and the desire to create new jobs. Then it's not about tying up land, and then it's not about coming up with ever-new laws and complicated rules that plague the lives of the peasants, and that plague the lives of people out in the districts who actually want to create something to live off on their own. The problem with Norwegian regional policy is that it has been for too long: you think the state can solve everything, and you are more interested in and dedicated to governing than to facilitating free nutrition. On the day you realize it, you can put in place a district policy – which may reverse the flow.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1216	I was so lucky that I sat in my office and heard part of this debate. There were many interesting allegations about the District Policy of the Advance Party, and the government’s excellent district policy. This led me to find out quite quickly that here I had to clear up some errors. It is clear that we are dependent on agricultural subsidies in this country, which we will depend on for many years to come. An important reason for this is regulation and bureaucracy – soil law, concession law, odelslaw – that Norwegian farmers should not only be involved in financing through taxes and taxes, but a bureaucracy that is becoming increasingly creative with new laws and regulations to be implemented. It is not long before Norwegian farmers have to apply for permission to drive the tractor out on their own land. I feel many times that it's at that level. Then we see that the government is pursuing a predatory policy that in large parts of the country makes further outings impossible. There is a double side in today's VG, where the famous skier and sheep farmer Gjermund Egg says that he is now giving up – he is tired. He has for two of the last three years lost almost half his sheep to the wolf, in an area where the Storting has decided that it should not be wolf, but where the wolf nevertheless takes half of his sheep. It's government and the Center Party's predatory policy. It's out of control, and the government wants a multiple of the wolf and bear populations. Then it is that if a farmer were to be so lucky, or unlucky, that he finds out that he wants to build some cabins, it is virtually impossible. We had an example from Melhu Municipality in Trøndelag recently. The Motor Travel Act says that if a cabin is more than two and a half kilometres from the broken road, you are allowed to drive snowmobiles to the cabin. But then the county manager says no to build a cabin more than two and a half kilometers away from the busted road, because then it is allowed to run snowmobiles. This is the Norwegian owner-in-law. If the landowner were so lucky, or unlucky, to be able to build this cottage, the hunting majority in this hall comes and takes away most of the party income as well. It's not okay to be the foundation owner of the Center Party in government. So to energy and small power, on which many Norwegian landowners could have made good money. Firstly, most rivers are protected against expansion, and at least the few rivers that are not protected against expansion are protected against any possibility of State aid. But in the case of large wind turbines, on the other hand, which the municipalities partly do not want, you get 30, 40, 50 cents in support, and the municipalities have nothing to say if the big community decides to three the windmills over their heads. Then we have the 100 meter belt. A tightening has been announced and adopted, which will enter into force on 1 July, but now all Norwegian municipalities – over 400 – are present and do not know. Today is June 12. In 18 days, the new Law on Planning and Building will enter into force, new coastal zone regulation will enter into force, and municipalities will not know which regime to deal with 18 days in advance. It's not okay to be a local politician with the Central Party in government. In Trøndelag and Helgeland, the government has now protected one third of all forest access for the next 25–30 years. It's not okay to be a forest owner, and in the forest industry, with the Senter party in government. Finally, I would like to congratulate the Government and the Central Party on having managed to move 40 state jobs out of Oslo. There's almost one for every month the Center Party has been in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1240	When you hear the debate in the Chamber, you can really wonder what the world is like out there. I wonder how many of the representatives have been out there talking to people, as described here by the situation in agriculture. Tord Lien says that it is not possible to obtain profitability in agriculture thanks to the law of the land, the law of the concession and the law of the land. I don't understand how he gets to that account of the farmer. Where is the cost in terms of the law of nobility? Is that what regulates profitability? Not at all! Is that the concession law? Is it soil law that regulates profitability? Of course, income opportunities regulate profitability. And then you have the boldness to stand here on the pulpit and yell out that it is quite cruel to be a Norwegian farmer, thanks for example. The law, knowing that last year the representative's own party chose to deposit a cut of SEK 6.2 billion only in budgetary resources within one year, in a negotiated agreement between the state and the industrial interests. It had broken profitability on a wink! When he promises that predatory policies will threaten grazing, we are in complete agreement – but when we see the cuts made by the party at SEK 6.2 billion, I have to ask: What kind of nourishment has that hit? Indeed, the most marginal industries in Norway, among others. grazing. Then there had not been an sheep left to send on Norwegian pastures, for all the uses had gone with loss. Then it just becomes empty words when Tord Lien rises so violently above, for example. odels and predatory policies, and we know that in the next round they cut all income opportunities. It does not help with tax vouchers for traders, if there is nothing to tax. That's what would have been the fact and the consequence of the Progress Party's own policy. Now I've just talked about the transfers. In addition, if you expect the cut party to have customs protection – if on the one hand you want to cut transfers to Norwegian agriculture, and on the other hand want to cut customs protection, what happens? Yes, district agriculture is being wiped out. The strongest agriculture, around Mjösa and perhaps around Oslo, in Rogaland and around Trondheim had managed to have a certain business, while everything we know as district agriculture had become so to say gone, with the enormous consequences it would have for housing, business and the culture that characterizes it. I think it is incredibly motivating to sit and listen to this – also the claim of centralisation. There have been not so many municipalities in Norway with population growth since the 1980s as it is now. There is no doubt that when there are uptimes, it has a centralising effect. Everyone knows that. And when it's downtime, it doesn't have a centralizing effect. But it is, after all, a fact that there has been population growth in more municipalities now than it has been since the late 1980s.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1255	There has been a lot of talk in this debate that it could have been undesirable to comment. But let me take one point that I think is important, and that is: is there an evaluation of the regional policy instruments? To those who are worried about it, I would just say that the Government has issued evaluations of Innovation Norway and SIVA and alerted the evaluation of the Research Council during the forthcoming Majority Period. These three are the most central actors in the public tools for enterprise-related support. The regional development funds for county municipalities have been evaluated. We're going to follow that evaluation from the department's side, but it's already clear that they're working. To those representatives who don't want county councils at all, who don't want these funds, I'm going to say they're working, and they're creating new jobs. I agree with those who claim here today that both agricultural policy, property law, predatory policies and very much more have meaning for regional and regional policy. There's no doubt about it. This is also the case with the plan laws that are now being introduced from 1 July. Own debates are organised, and decisions are taken in this context. When it comes to agriculture, it's a good chapter here, cap. 5.4, but there will also be an own debate on what agricultural policy we are going to have before the Stortinge goes from one another. What is the big question in this message, in our view, contrary to the previous message in 2005 – it was an important message in 2006 that told us about the difference in 2005 and 2006 – is: do we need a special, targeted district policy? There's our answer, yes. We mean to show that there is a good result with just that country over, that there are good results from the different programmes that we are putting in, that there is now a strong wish out in the country and a own optimism that we should follow especially up the undernourished municipalities, municipalities that themselves lack competence when it comes to actions that they would initiate, strengthen cooperation with the county councils. I note that there is a greater emphasis in this room today when it concerns matters that can actually be addressed in a different context. In this message I believe that we provide a good basis for local growth and believe in future both urban and urban, and one depends on each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1268	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1271	It's rarely a debate is raised by people sitting around in their offices, suddenly getting the call, so they have to go up in the hall and say something. We had a good example of that now. The debate was not raised at that time. So until that term I used, the farmer knows best. It is a concept that the opposition uses in its comments, and I agree that ‘the farmer is the best to know’. However, to avoid some misunderstandings – we have problems with communication: I said that when the farmer acts ‘collectively’ within the peasant organisations and cooperative organisations, I often think it is so that the farmer knows best. And we have to listen to it. Then we can say that to the extent that there is some bureaucracy – I say to the extent that I do not say it exists – it is within the cooperative organisations that the farmer knows best. And finally, I want to end with what I started with, this with the decentralization of decisions. I think that's the most important thing. And I think what we do in relation to commercial gardens, we should give to the county council and say, "Yes, thank you."
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1280	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 3642]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1297	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The first speaker is Kari Lise Holmberg. The case's rapporteur has been Torbjørn Røe Isaksen under Kari Lise Holmberg's leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1308	St.meld. No 28, on common policy, is a thorough document expressing many important intentions, and where there is a positive basic tone. This Communication proposes many good measures that will contribute to the development of the Sami community. Like the Government, a Joint Committee believes that it is important to pursue a common policy based on justice and fellowship between the community and the rest of the country. At the same time, the Committee considers it important to pursue a policy to serve the Sami population so that Sami languages, Sami culture and social life can have a secure future in Norway. It is good that the communication clearly emphasises the importance of stimulating and investing in Sami languages. In order to promote an understanding of the situation of the group and to be able to function appropriately in relation to Sami users, the Committee agrees that public bodies must and must have knowledge of Sami relations, Sami culture and history. In 2002, permanent Nordic cooperation was established between the Ministers responsible for Sami affairs and the various joint presidents. Such cooperation is positive. They live together in several Nordic countries, and the Committee believes that joint efforts and common objectives to strengthen and develop the Sami interests across these borders are important. In our own North Sea effort, the indigenous dimension must have a central place in politics, so that we help to secure the livelihoods of indigenous peoples, food, history and culture – so far as a unanimous committee. It is also a unanimous committee behind the vote. With the exception of the members of the Progress Party, the parties are broadly united behind the content of the Committee's comments. The party is in principle opposed to having its own elected body, and the party believes that Sámi additional rights create a dangerous precedent. No other party supports this view, and I believe that representatives of the Progress Party themselves justify their views during the debate. On the right, in this debate, we would like to highlight in particular that many of the measures proposed in the communication are the follow-up to already adopted laws. We probably lack a more proactive attitude on the part of the Government and, in particular, feel the urgency of putting greater pressure on the development of the language of the group, the recruitment of teachers and the general enhancement of competence. To understand the present, it is necessary to know the story, it is said – so also in this case. The research policy was prominent Norwegian policy from the 1880s, and particularly strong around 1900, and it remained an ideology far beyond the post-war period. Because of this, many people have suffered injustice. The announcement of the downturn and the intention to strengthen and develop the Sami policy for the indigenous population is necessary and must be seen in this context. I will use my allocated time to take for myself the most important thing for any society: children's growing-up conditions, language, school and education. The training provision of the Sami students should be closely followed up — and perhaps closer than they have been to today. It is worrying if the Sami population in many municipalities does not have sufficient care for their interests and needs. At present, there is no systematic overview or report of common policies in the local government sector. We therefore believe that the county should play a more active role in this work. We also want to underline the supervisory role of the county council. If Sami is to be a living language, it is essential that good language offerings are available in kindergartens and schools. It is necessary to strengthen Sami languages throughout the Sami region. In this context, we will await the Sámi Action Plan drawn up by the Government, in cooperation with the Sámi Federation. So a few words about Sami higher education, which is the only higher Sami educational institution in Norway, with an all-samish and indigenous perspective, and with a special responsibility for the development of Sami languages. It is therefore important to establish that Sami higher education institutions have a clear responsibility in terms of Sami higher education and research. We ask the Government to follow this up. Sámi Colleges have great visions and many clear objectives, and it is important that the Government, in cooperation with Sámi Colleges, stimulates and further develops the institution — which is unique. The difficult recruitment situation in Sami learning is a challenge. We agree with the Government that efforts must be made to increase the recruitment base, and in fact, there is an urgent need to put greater pressure on that development. We believe that Sami higher education can contribute more skills for the public sector as well. As big-scale politicians, we have received many signals from the Sami population that more should be done in the public sector, that this is not good enough. The need for knowledge of the Sami community is proving to be high in different sectors of management. I can only mention crosswords as kindergarten, school, health and child protection. Overall, this is a message that has been well received, both politically and among the various hearing bodies. But it remains to ensure that there are not only words, but also actions. There's a big responsibility for the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1336	Today, we are adopting the principles of common policies over the next four years. The size has an important task when we point out these general lines, especially because we also do it on behalf of the Sami people. For the state of Norway, it is originally established in the territory of two peoples, Samer and Nordmen, where both peoples have the same right and the same requirements to develop their culture and language. Samemen are an indigenous people who have a call for a particular cultural protection under international law, which has been emphatically established by ILO Convention No. 169 on the rights of indigenous peoples. I am pleased that there is such a broad political consensus on the responsibility we have to ensure the rights of the common people. But it is very regrettable that the Progress Party once again puts itself completely on the sideline. Yes, in the setting they've actually gone as far as trying to so doubt whether together is actually a native. The party of progress claims that gatherings were among the last to populate the North Callot. This is mildly eye-catching, sail from the Progress Party, I believe. Once again, it shows the party their relationship to international agreements. For the Labour Party – and I can say to others in the Committee – it is beyond doubt that together is an indigenous population, and not least that we have both a national and an international responsibility to ensure that their rights are respected. I would like to pay tribute to the Government for focusing on the ‘working-day policy’ of this message. After a long research period of more than 100 years, we have a few decades behind us with Sami rights development and institution building. The establishment of the Sameting, which has now worked for 20 years, has been of great importance. This paradigm shift has been absolutely necessary, and work on rights development and institution building must continue. Important issues such as the County Court Committee south of Finnmark, the Coastal Fisheries Committee and the Nordic Convention need to find their solution. The same applies to clarification of the formal position of the Sameting and budgetary procedures. At the same time, there are still areas where security for one's own language and culture is not at issue. In particular, meeting together with the public sector, both state and municipality, seems to be challenging. It is therefore essential, as also mentioned in the Communication, that the Government follow up with stronger requirements for state agencies and activities to implement common policies in the various sectors. This is so far done in relation to Nav and Health North. It is also important to require reporting of implemented actions. In the 2009 budgetary procedure, the majority requested that the situation of Sami students in the municipalities be monitored. I am pleased that the Sami training at school has now been supervised. Here are several signals that not everything is as it should be, including in the case of Sami learning materials. The communication signals a more active use of the county councillors in connection with Sami issues in the municipalities, on which the case-rapporteur was also concerned. I think it is absolutely necessary that action be taken to use the guidance functions of the county councillors — and also the supervisory functions — in this context. There is cause for concern, in particular as regards municipalities outside the Sami language management area. I have also registered that there is a cooperation between the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, KS and Sametinget on Sami issues in the municipal sector. I support such cooperation and look forward to the results of the important work to be done. It is the municipalities that are in close contact with the inhabitants. I am pleased with the broad focus that the Government has on Sami languages in the message, and I have registered that the Government has recently presented an action plan for Sami languages. We have a situation where the departure of Sami language carriers is probably greater than the growth. It is important that the Government now assess different incentives for, among others: increasing the recruitment of Sami teachers and pre-schoolers. This could be done, for example, by: is about scholarship schemes or about channelling additional funds for the advance in the Sami languages. In addition, it is important to ensure the quality of Sami training. I am therefore pleased that the Government is now assessing the possibilities for a national centre of expertise for Sami in training, as we do, among other things. has it for Norwegian and math.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1364	It is true, as the rapporteur says, that the party of progress is outside much of what the other parties have in the form of an observation. This is because the Progress Party is responsible for a completely different policy in this area. It's not about caring for Sami language, Sami culture, which is otherwise protected by constitution – there we all agree – but you should not overlook the fact that perhaps it's together itself who must be able to care for their rich traditions and their rich culture, their rich heritage. Then there is nothing that the Storting can decide. But that's not where the disagreement lies first and foremost. The disagreement between the Advance Party and all the other parties in this Chamber is in principle. The Progress Party does not accept the policies it has seen taking shape in this country after the work of the Joint Judicial Committees, which have helped to establish special rights for a population on an ethnic basis at the expense of the rest of the population. It's a kind of policy that you normally shouldn't be very proud of, which you usually talk against. But precisely in the case of cohabitation, a policy has been implemented – and will further develop even more policy – which will mean that, especially in the three Nordic states, people are separated by ethnicity. It's expressed through FeFo and through the Finnland Act. It's expressed in relation to the Samet, which is compounded only on the basis of ethnicity, and which is constantly fighting to gain more power. It is expressed through the Joint Judicial Committee II's investigation if there is a policy to establish a hollow country general where ethnicity – as FeFo says – is to be decisive for who is to be elected on the board. It is a policy that the Progress Party at all is not doing well. It's not that we have something against the same, which we often get crept after ourselves, but it's about having a fundamental attitude -- equality between all people. All people have an equal value, regardless of ethnic, religious, cultural background, etc. Here's the big difference. Then you have to go into a debate about indigenous peoples, or not indigenous peoples. There are quite a number of indications that if you assume that the concept of indigenous people is about who was here first – when we talk about the North Callot – it cracks a little. What I can at least say is that in the three Nordic states, there is a population of ethnic Norwegian – if we can use that term – Samis and women, who are also a people who have lived together for centuries, and who have worked very well together. You've married across the board, and I want to say that in many ways there's a population where the dividing lines today almost don't exist for the large majority. Then it becomes very special when you introduce rights based on ethnicity, as this government has done, and which unfortunately the majority of the parties in this room – against the advice of their own local people elected, rightly – in some cases, stand for. So just to illustrate the problem, it's like if you're going to base the numbers, who's the same, who's the same, and who's not the same, it's based on the same number. Then you'll see it's for the three Northern Norwegian states – that it's only 0.42 pst. Samer in Nordland, 2.17 pst. in Troms, 13.8 p.m. in Finnmark. Nevertheless, special rights are being granted to that part of the population at the expense of others. This is contrary to fundamental democratic principles.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1377	I will refrain from commenting on the previous speeches and rather start with what I myself want, and come back to the Progress Party at the end. The Christian People's Party believes, in the same way as the majority in this Chamber, and as has also been said earlier in the debate, that Norway is established in the territory of two peoples – Samer and Nordmen – and that both peoples have the same right and the same requirements for developing their culture and language. This is at the root of the common policy. The fact that the majority of cohabitants in the world live in Norway gives the State Norway specific obligations to Sami cultural development in a broad sense. The announcement of the coup d'état and the intention to strengthen and develop the policy towards our indigenous people is important and necessary in the opinion of the Christian People's Party. A large number of cohabitants have experienced discrimination because of their origins, and the research policy that was passed on to cohabitants over many decades is a disgrace in our history. The unique self-esteem of man must be the basis for the behaviour of the great society in relation to indigenous peoples and national minorities. Discrimination at all levels must be combated, and the diversity of cultures must be highlighted raised for their positive self-esteem. Increased knowledge of the Sami culture can help to prevent discrimination against cohabitants. The Christian People's Party will guarantee this right to language, culture and social life, as enshrined in international conventions, and therefore supports this communication. The Christian People's Party will build up under the diversity of the Sami society. Common policies require follow-up at both municipal, county and national level. The merger is a democratically elected body of the Sami population and must therefore be the Government’s leading pre-missive provider on Sami issues. But it is that the forms of cooperation and dialogue between the Sameting and the Government must work well. The Christian People's Party is therefore pleased that the majority of the Committee agrees that it is necessary to facilitate the establishment of a system of permanent consultations between the Minister of Finance and the Council of State responsible for Sami affairs and the Sameting before the Government's first budgetary conference. It is important that the pooling is involved to a greater extent than at present in the preparation of budgets for Sami purposes and for the Velocity. The peculiarity of indigenous peoples must be ensured by passing on their way of life, culture and values to new generations. Many challenges lie at the intersection of Sami industrial interests, general industrial development, the use of natural resources and land management in Sami settlement areas. Central authorities have a separate responsibility to preserve and further develop Sami culture and to resolve the conflicts at this point of intersection. The question of self-determination and assessment of the role of the pooling should be dynamic, continuous processes in which the content cannot be determined once and for all. The original population dimension of processes in the northern regions requires cooperation at several levels, both within the Sami community and with the rest of the population of the northern, national and industrial regions. The Christian People's Party believes that the Sameting must involve the entire Sami community in the processes around the northern regions. The Christian People's Party agrees with many of the government's strategies for the northern regions. They are long-term, and their concreteization is going to take place continuously over several years. Many of the measures proposed in the Communication are the follow-up to already adopted laws. The Christian People's Party calls for a more active attitude from the Government. In particular, there is an urgent need to put greater pressure on the development of the Sami languages, with the recruitment of teachers and general skills enhancement. Finally, a little comment on how democratic it is to grant special rights to some groups. Policy is about raising some cultures and individual populations. It is a positive matter to discriminate against people for democratic reasons. What has happened to the Sami culture in Norway over a long period of time obliges the Norwegian community, the Norwegian community, to correct the mistake that was made in the regulation process. I hope and believe that this message is a step in the direction of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1403	The message we are discussing today is about ‘the actions taken to ensure and develop the language, culture and social life of the community’. The work on the Communication and the debate in Stortinget should contribute to raising cohesion policy to a higher level on the national policy agenda. Although the Sametinget is the nationally elected representative body and thus the main premiscible supplier of common policies, it is important that central parts of Norwegian common policies are also addressed in the national Parliament. The Central Party supports the Government’s overriding objectives for common policies and will pursue a policy serving the Sami population, so that Sami language, culture and society have a secure future in Norway. It is positive that the consensus on these overall objectives embraces as much as all the parties on the Stortinget. I know best about the special challenges facing the southern Sami population. They include: related to the situation, identity, language, educational problems and mental problems of children and young people. In addition, the southern samples of the tround layers feel a rather hopeless situation associated with predators, which gives virtually impossible conditions for reindeer operations. In the case of languages, the Government in the Communication announces that it will invite the Samian language action plan to cooperate. I am pleased that the Government in that work will focus on strengthening the Southern Sami language as well. Sami children must feel that Sami and Norwegian are equivalent languages as early as possible. Therefore, it is important that Sami children receive a childcare facility that strengthens the Sami language development. In order to choose Sami school training as much as possible later, it is essential that the offer is good. Today, there is a challenge both in terms of good teaching materials and to provide a sufficient number of teachers with the skills to teach in Sami. For domestic operations, the situation in Nord-Trøndelag is dramatic. Due to the increasing number of herds of predators in recent years, the entire existence of this indigenous population is threatened. It is particularly serious when young people in southern Europe who want to carry on the reindeer tradition are no longer able to do so. In spring, 19-year-old Malin Sandvik Wilks told Trunder-Avisa that she is experiencing what is happening to the reindeer industry, as a loss for the whole of Southern Sami culture. In addition to major predatory losses, she says that she and other southern men experience a lack of understanding from the big community. She wants to carry on the reindeer tradition, but is afraid the predators force her to change their plans. The Government announced in the Communication that it would give priority to the work on framework conditions for the reprocessing industry. For my part, I would strongly urge that the predatory situation and its importance for reindeer management, both in the North Trøndelag and elsewhere, must become an important theme of such work. That Agriculture Minister Breck has alerted and set up a working group, I hope will lead to good solutions for the domestic operations of Southern Sammen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1424	There is a lot I could have liked to comment on when we are dealing today with the Storing Communication on the common policy, but because of the short time I get to take some of the important things. Central authorities have a responsibility to preserve and further develop the Sami culture and language. This also includes a responsibility for Sami students in initial training. It is very important for Sami children to maintain and develop their linguistic identity. Sami students are entitled to up-to-date learning materials, which are in line with the Sami knowledge promise, and the development of Sami learning materials must therefore be prioritised in order to ensure good training in and in Sami. This applies to teaching materials for students who have Sami as their first language, to those who have it as their second language, and to students with a southern and lulesamic background. Central authorities cannot waive the overall responsibility they have for the training of Sami students and teachers. Under the Training Act, all students are required to be trained and there are also requirements for organised learning material. It is the responsibility of the municipalities and municipal politicians to ensure that educational materials that have been produced are available to the pupils and teachers of the municipalities at all times. If we are to develop new teaching materials, the working conditions of Sami textbook writers need to be improved. These are recruited from a very small environment, and teachers often take leave from their position in the school to develop Sami educational materials. In the big news, I do not care how Sami traditions and knowledge related to the harvesting of foreign resources and the outreach industry should be passed on in the best possible way to children and young people growing up today. Schools have an important role to play here, and it is therefore necessary to provide schools with resources to do so. It's great that the interest in Sami training is growing. With an increasing interest in training in Sami, it is important that the quality of offers is monitored and developed. For example, it is very important to: Oslo, with such a large number of Sami speakers, facilitates a Sami-language offer in the training and provides sufficient information on this and on the rights of students. I would also like to stress the need for extra attention to be paid to the southern and lulesamic languages. In order to disseminate knowledge and motivation for learning the languages among young people, it is important to use new channels and young people’s own approaches. There is also a need to strengthen the advisory service in both initial and post-secondary education in order to gain more counsellors with Sami background and language. We have a major challenge in recruiting enough students for studies in Sami and for Sami teacher and preschool teacher training. Fortunately, applicants for this year's Sámi college seem to be positive, but after many years with very few applicants, there will still be a need to use resources to train enough Sámi teachers and pre-school teachers. I am pleased that the Government has now presented an action plan for Sami languages, and this must be accompanied by resources in the future. It is now high time that the foundation of Kárášjoga Dáidaskuvla – Art School in Karasjok – realized its plans for art school at secondary school level. There is a great need for just such a school offer in this part of the country and in a Sami environment. Many children and young people have interests and skills in the arts and culture field, and they have been students at different cultural schools in the municipalities. For a number of years it has been working hard to establish a Sami art museum in Karasjok. Today, Sámi art treasures are stowed away and are about to rot away in poor cellars. There is therefore an urgent need to establish a Sami art museum, so that all art is preserved for the future, and so that the public can see it. In the case of Beaivváš Sámi Teáhter in Kautokeino, it is very important that the plans for a separate theatre building can be realised. Beaivváš has been of great importance to the blossoming of Sami cultural life after its establishment in 1981, and it is therefore high time that the plans for its own theatre building in Kautokeino can become a reality after almost 30 years. The subsidy to Sami newspapers must also continue to be managed by the Media Regulatory Board in accordance with the regulations laid down by the Ministry of Culture and the Church. It is important that the subsidy for the production of lule and southern Sami newspapers is increased, but this must be financed by fresh means and not by reducing the press support to the two Sami daily newspapers that we have today, namely Ávvir and Ságat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1452	The size decided in connection with the decision on the Law of 12 June 1987 No. 56 on the Sameting and other Sámi legal conditions — that a communication is to be submitted once every major period on the measures taken to ensure and develop the language, culture and social life of the group. So that's the message we're now processing. The basis for this policy is that the state of Norway is originally established in the territory of two peoples — Samer and Nordmen — and that both peoples have the same right and the same requirement to develop their culture and language. The joint policy in Norway is based on the state’s overall responsibility for the preservation and development of Sami culture. The development of cohesion policy shall be based on Norway’s international obligations, national legislation and active cooperation with the Sametinget. The government's aim is to develop the Sami peculiarity in good co-existence with the rest of the society, while at the same time preserving the position and rights of indigenous peoples in Norway. In the light of the Committee's comments, I note that there is still a broad consensus on the future direction of common policies. All lots, with the exception of one, stand behind the main lines drawn in the message. Following the establishment of the consultation agreement between State authorities and the Sameting in 2005, there has been a very positive development with regard to the ability of the Sameting to influence in many fields. I can inform you that in 2008 and until May 2009 there have been, and are being, consultations with the Sameting in about 40 cases. 11 departments have taken part in consultations. In recent decades, common policies have been characterised by the development of rights and the establishment of Sami institutions. The government will build on the legal and institutional basis laid down. The new rights investigations now available, the Coastal Fisheries Committee and the SPC II, on Sami rights outside Finnmark, will be carefully assessed. The government will also follow up the work of a possible Nordic co-convention. Following this message that we are discussing today, the Government has recently presented a comprehensive action plan for Sami languages. Unfortunately, studies show that Sami language skills in public enterprises are inadequate. Society needs more — in many professions — who master the Sami language. The overall objective of the Government’s Action Plan is to get more Sami language users. The action plan draws attention to three areas: the possibility of learning Sami, the possibility of using Sami and the possibility of seeing or experiencing Sami in public space. Good and accessible facilities in kindergartens and initial training play a crucial role in the development of the Sami languages. The development of Sami learning materials, the provision of distance learning and increased recruitment to Sami teacher training and training with Sami in the profession are priority areas. Monitoring of the compliance of municipalities with the rights of Sami students will be carried out in 2009. The scope of administration of the rules of the Law on Languages has been extended to include both the Northern Sami, the Lulesamian and the Southern Sami territories. The government has proposed that the municipality of Lavangen in Troms can now be integrated into the administrative area. Enlargement of the administrative area is a very good way to secure Sami languages for the future. Sami culture, Sami language and Sami industries are not uniform. The government will therefore continue to seek to disseminate knowledge on Sami matters and on the basis of Sami rights development in Norway. Then it is also important that Sami culture become more visible in public space through the media, through literature, films and music. I'm glad we see a positive development in this area, including in youth culture. Sami culture and history are an important part of Norway's culture and history. It is our duty to take care of and develop this important part of Norway's cultural heritage.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1480	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1483	I would like to address a little of what was the subject of my speech, namely the democratic discrimination that is now taking place, especially in the three Nordic states. It is a fact that at the time of the creation of the Sameting, the creation of the Finnmark property, FeFo – and soon, if a hologaland generalisation is established based on what is recommended by the setting up of the Sametingscommittee II – it is such that I am non-joint, at least as a non-member of the same number, as a Northernlander has fewer democratic rights than a Northernlander who stands in the same number. This is fundamentally undemocratic. In any other context, there is something the Government says they are working against. Is it entirely unproblematic for the Council of State that this type of discrimination is practised in practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1491	I said in my speech, and many others have said this before, that we should build our common policy on the Norwegian indigenous peoples on national policies and on international conventions. I record that the representative Amundsen has not come up with the full definition of what are indigenous peoples. The definition is that indigenous people are the people who lived in a special area at the time the national borders were drawn. Then Amundsen can have a discussion about who was first in Finnmark, and who we first look at. It's uninteresting in the context of international conventions. There is no doubt that the Sami people were established when the Norwegian borders were drawn. So that question is settled. So to the question of whether it is undemocratic that we take care of the rights of indigenous people in the way we do – no, on the contrary. In all international bodies in which I meet – and have met in former functions of the Government – it has just been stressed that we are one of the countries that takes good care of our obligations, in line with international conventions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1500	In the past, it was the Sami College that produced national tests for Sami children. In 2002, this was stopped by the Government due to a lack of appropriations. We are now aware that the Directorate of Education has been commissioned to prepare national examinations for Sami children with Sami as their first language. In view of the debate and given the importance of developing competences locally, does the Council of State not believe it is right that it is Sami higher education institutions that will in future have this opportunity to draw up national tests? Will the Council of State take the initiative, if any, to re-examine the decision in place so that local action can be taken?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1507	As the representative is of course aware, the Education Directorate is under a different department than mine. What must be central is that the Sami communities of competence, including the Sámi University of Kautokeino, must be central suppliers in the further development of the Sámi language. Of course, Sameting has the most formal position here. I am sure that the cooperation that the Ministry of Education and the Federation now has on language and education issues will lead in the right direction in this context. So I would also like to stress what was said by the representative of Hagebakken, that the cooperation that I have taken the initiative to do with the Municipal Councils and the Conseilship, has precisely language as one of its important cooperation tasks. I am quite certain that the representative Holmberg's intention will be taken care of in that cooperation project.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1514	Small community schools are important everywhere in the country, perhaps the most important in pig-grown, small and Sami communities. The school in Tysfjord and Olderfjord, Elgå and Børselv schools are such small schools that are constantly threatened with closure. Does the Council of State see the importance of these schools for the Sami environment, for the Sami language and for the Sami way of life of these small communities? Is there anything he can contribute, so that these schools are not constantly threatened with being laid down?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1519	I am familiar with the meaning of Sami languages in the areas mentioned here, among others. Elgå is one of the schools with training in southern Sami. There are many reasons why we are discussing the continuation of cross-border schools. It can vary a lot. I myself have attended a branch school that has graduated. It's closed not only because of the quality of those who went out of there, but because the students were reduced. The type of local issues must allow local politicians to deal with them. But I fully agree with the representative that it is important that the schools that are cultural carriers of the different Sami languages, regardless of the school structure in which the municipalities in question choose to enter in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1526	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1529	The identity of a people is closely related to the language. It is the language that is the bearer of culture and history. Institutions are important. The establishment of different cultural institutions in Sami areas – ranging from theatre to museum – is important and fundamental, but the most important thing is that one has a policy on how to maintain and develop the language, the Sami language, or the languages, is more appropriate to say. There I feel that the outline outlined in the message is good. A person is provided with a division of labour between different educational institutions. The University of Tromsø shall have a heavy responsibility for both language and culture and build up heavy – at least relatively heavy – research environments, and then the Sami College shall be responsible for language and language development. I also believe that what happened a few years ago, when we joined the Nordic Sami Institute with the Sami College, was an important step in trying to strengthen linguistic competence and research competence. An attempt to build environments, heavy professional environments, which are able to do a real job both in developing and taking care of language and in developing an academic terminology, so that the Sami language has the opportunity to survive in the future. The use of higher education resources and the strengthening of research capacities in the field of language and language development are in many ways at the heart of the preservation of the Sami culture and the Sami tradition. If we bomb there, we don't do the job properly there, I think and fear that much of the Sami culture may be exposed. Language is the basis for most of the time. In this context, it is important that we be able to recruit more to higher education from the Sami areas, both for teacher training and for higher education in general. It's a big challenge, maybe not just for the central authorities. Local and regional authorities also have a challenge in getting more young people to choose academic education and apply to educational institutions in Tromsø and to the Sami university. The main, key and key challenges are to ensure recruitment to those institutions that have a special responsibility for developing the Sami languages.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1538	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1541	First of all, I would like to inform the Council of State that Norway as such is the only country using the word 'ur people'. All other of the 17 countries that have ratified ILO Convention 169 use the translations ‘tribal’ or ‘indigenous’. Many have asked for a reason for our principled policy. Then we have to go back 20 years in time, when the discussion started if we were to establish a merger. At that time, out of 19 municipalities in Finnmark, 16 municipalities opposed the establishment of a joint assembly – 16 out of 19 municipalities! The county council was opposed to the establishment of a joint assembly, and our county rapporteur, who has since ended up on the Stortinget, Anders Aune, opposed a joint assembly. For what is it a co-ordinated combination does? Well, it distinguishes people through ethnicity. Husbands must be separated at the vault. Neighbors must be separated at the vault. Then you stand and claim from this pulpit that this is a healthy, democratic and positive discrimination. Since the establishment of the Sameting, the Finnish Law of 2005 gave us the right to step down our heads, where, for example: states in clear terms that there is a conflict in the law on who has ownership rights, the ILO Convention 169 shall prevail over the Finnland Act. In other words, in every battle the outcome of the battle is given in advance, based on ethnicity. Then we have FeFo, the Finnmark property, as 98 pst. of Finnmark's population is very dissatisfied with. And then you think in this room that the state of things in our northernmost state is good, well and good. I think that illusion there we must crush just as quickly and immediately. Because that's not how the state of Finnmark is. Both the Sameting, the Finnland Act and the FeFo have made a lot of fight between different populations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1554	I will continue my post from instead. It is also high time we got a child protection service that ensures that the rights of Sami children are fully respected. Unfortunately, too little has happened so far, despite the fact that I have raised this issue on several occasions. Former Minister of Children Karita Bekkemelm acknowledged in his written reply to me in November 2006 that fulfilling the rights in practice can be a challenge. The same government council answered my questions in the May 2007 Questionnaire that the Family Council has not yet become an integrated approach in the work of Sami families. In November 2008, the current Minister for the Child Anniken Huitfeldt, in an interview from me, agreed that family councils should be used in several cases involving Sami families. Family councils are a decision-making model in which child protection provides the large family and the network around the child or youth with the opportunity to find solutions and take responsibility for their implementation. A Sami child who first experiences being taken from his or her parents, and then being placed in a Norwegian-speaking foster home that may be very distant from home, not only experiences the loss of his or her parents and siblings, but is also deprived of the opportunity to develop his or her Sami language and culture — i.e. its entire Sami identity. They lose everything in many ways, and this is not how a child protection service in this country, which is supposed to take into account the child's best, can continue to function. It is also high time that priority was given to organising a good and well-functioning interpreting service in the healthcare system. Too little has been done so far in this period to find concrete solutions that can provide a better offer for the Sami patients. In contact with health services, the Sami population must be entitled to use its own language. Among the older Sami-speaking sections of the population, there are many who neither understand nor speak Norwegian, and they need to be guaranteed an offer of interpretation and information in their own language. I have raised on several occasions the lack of interpreting service that is currently being offered to the Sami population. Health Minister Sylvia Brustad acknowledged in June 2007 that the interpretation service for the Sami population is not good enough, but unfortunately very little has happened in the last two years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1565	Was it so that Vera Lightcloth also wished for the word of a short remark, limited to 1 minute?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1569	Thank you! Harvesting and natural use are essential for the continuation and preservation of the Sami culture, language and way of life for the future. The sewerage industry is both an important Sami primary industry and an important Sami cultural carrier. The pastures are today under a strong pressure from all sides. It is therefore important that the areas of reindeer management are secured for the future. It is also high time that the needs of reindeer operators, among others. snowmobiles in the exercise of their industry are treated in a fiscal manner in line with the farmer’s need for the use of a tractor in his industry. Major Sami industries and cultural carriers are also agriculture, fisheries, land industries and duodji. There are great opportunities for value creation and product development based on Sami primary industries and culture. Recruitment to primary industries is a major challenge that needs to be taken seriously. Salmon fishing has always been a very important part of the Sami culture along the Tanava... [[The President clubs.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1578	The number is out. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox Eirin Fallet took over the president's office here. [[Fotation, see page 3642]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1592	Before Stortinget goes to voting, State Council Dag Terje Andersen will transfer 1 kgl. the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1599	Then Stortinget will vote in case No. 1 to 5 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1606	During the debate, Mr Höglund put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1672	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Åge Starheim on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 3, from Bjørg Tørresdal on behalf of the Advance Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1696	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1 and 2 from the Progression Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1739	The President has understood that the Progress Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-12.ana.ud660e1782	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
