ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e30	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on Energy and the Environment. 1 and 2 are processed under one – and see it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e55	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given to repeat chord changes of up to three lines with replies from the main speakers of each group and five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e66	Today, Odelstinget shall make adjustments to the Climate Allowance Act to meet the objections of the EFTA Surveillance Authority from 16 July 2008 to the Norwegian quota system as adopted on 19 June 2007. Following the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change, which entered into force in 1994, we got the Kyoto Agreement in 1997, with its entry into force in 2005. This is the most important international climate change response framework. Amazingly, there are still some people in both Norwegian and international policies who doubt that we have man-made climate change, despite massive research and evidence. Fortunately, fewer and fewer people refuse to take in this knowledge. Measurements through ice core drilling show that the concentration of CO2 in the atmosphere is the highest in 650 000 years. We must commit ourselves to doing something about what threatens our future, the danger of continued and reinforced global warming – the greatest environmental challenge facing us. This can have enormous climatic, ecological and health consequences, and therefore economic consequences we do not understand today. There is initially good reason to note that the International Energy Agency says that the energy-related emissions of CO2 will increase by over 50 pst. until 2030 if no effective measures are put in place to reduce emissions. It is important, as both Minister of Environment Solheim and Prime Minister Stoltenberg have expressed many times, to put in place measures at the earliest possible time to improve their effectiveness. Yes, the danger signals are clear and frightening if we look at observations and measurements made in arctic strokes where the temperature increase seems to accelerate faster than anyone had imagined, and with very serious consequences. When the Government in its proposal for the Climate Change Act in 2007 in connection with the accession of the EU quota system provided the world's most stringent climate quota legislation and thus provided a basis for us to meet our commitments and more, it was a recognition that we had to be willing to accept our responsibilities. Now there is an overall committee that has noticed that ESA has accepted the total Norwegian quota and that this quota quantity is to be 20 pst. lower than the emissions of the ETS activities were in 2005. This is, of course, an important recognition for further work on the Norwegian quota legislation. A Joint Committee, like the Government, has also taken over the fact that ESA required some clear adjustments in the Norwegian allowance system before the allocation could be authorised and the allowances issued in the allowance registry. It was expressed that the adopted Norwegian allowance scheme for the allocation of free allowances led to undue discrimination between different groups of existing establishments and that this was not accepted by ESA. With the decision we are making today based on the Government's proposal, we are responding to these objections from ESA, and ESA is familiar with the proposal that has been promoted. The new allocation rules that we are now laying down allow a number of enterprises concerned to apply for a new allocation for an improved allocation basis and thus with the possibility of extending the amount of free allowances. It is also accepted in the recommendation from the Committee that the oil and gas activities should not be allocated allowances free of charge on the basis of the fact that our scheme includes land-based activities which are not subject to the law on the taxation of CO2 emissions in the petroleum sector on the cap. Furthermore, it is an overall committee which notes that ESA does not accept a gas power reserve based on purification but that it is accepted for a selective set-aside for high-efficiency cogeneration plants. I also think there is reason to note that there is an overall committee that indicates that the Government has laid down the most objective award criteria possible, which means that the enterprises themselves cannot influence allocation by behavioural change that does not bring environmental benefits. Yes, this is a guiding principle for the device of the entire allowance system alongside the polluter-pays principle. The system we're adding, makes the climate allowance law actually put a ceiling on about 40 pst. of the total national emissions. With regard to this amendment to the Climate Change Act, there is a strong force that there is a broad majority, i.e. The Workers' Party, SV, the Centre Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left, which is mainly behind the comments and the decision setting. The Progress Party and the Right have chosen to separate layers with the other majority, i.e. where fine words about climate policy are not translated into action, yes, where one has to go into some demanding, politically burdensome decisions. We could probably at first make it easier for ourselves if we had made some of our allocated allowances available to a general reserve, but it's not given what this would mean for individual companies, as well as that free allowances can give larger national emissions and thus make it harder and more expensive for us to meet the emission limits that we have actually assumed. We have now opted for a system whereby activities established after 2001 that have had emissions for one or more calendar years in the period 2002-2007 are allocated allowances on the basis of their historical emissions in those years, while existing activities that have not had representative historical emissions before the notification of the allocation plan are allocated allowances in accordance with specified standards. We have the power to combine ESA's objections with the means to achieve our objective of a good climate policy, and then it's good to note that, through the consultations to the law in general in industry, it's content with this and that it puts industry in a good competitive position. However, two companies have not been fully satisfied with this, NorFra Kalk and Celsa Arming Steel AS. NorFra Kalk has mentioned several factors, but above all that their estimated operating time in the new plant will exceed the operating time set as the norm in the law, which in such a case does not give free allowances for all production. Celsa has raised a number of objections, including: complained about the State pollution control calculation of the CO2 content of the scrap iron which the company melts over, which meant that they had to pay more for greenhouse gas emissions than the corresponding companies in other countries. I suppose the staff will go into this in more detail in their article. But I registered yesterday with great pleasure that the Ministry of the Environment has taken part in the complaint from Celsa politically and accepted part of it. Thus, Celsa can increase its output without having to pay for CO2 emissions that they do not actually emit. This is very good and an important handshake to the company that has made large investments that benefit the environment even without reducing greenhouse gas emissions. During the discussion on whether Celsa could benefit from applying for the allocation of free allowances in the context of a general quota reserve, full answers from the Minister for the Environment have shown that the emission figure at the holding is more complex than for other enterprises. This suggests that no system other than that currently provided by the law has been granted to the company, which would give the company more free allowances. The Stortinget has now contributed to the fastest possible treatment of climate quota changes, as requested by the State Council. We therefore hope that this will allow the 2008 allowance settlement to be put in place by the deadline.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e124	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e127	This case is very much about the framework conditions for Norwegian business compared to competitors abroad. The representative Nordtun from the Workers' Party sent out a press release in August saying that the government is working so that no free CO2 allowances were to be allocated after 2012. It was an important clarification, just as the climate quota law we are now adopting is an important clarification. It is an important clarification for business to know what happens after 2012. Then it's interesting, not just for me, but for very many nutritionists to know: Does the Workers' Party stand firm at the announcement by the representative Nordtun in the press release, which he has probably written himself, and which therefore cannot be misinterpreted, that the Government will not allocate free CO2 allowances to any industry or business operator after 2012?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e140	In any case, what I can say with a wide pen is that it is too early now to conclude whether Norwegian businesses will get or not get allowances after 2012. The EU wants to continue the quota system after 2012 and towards 2020. In that system, there is also the sale of allowances. One basis is that Norway will participate in the European ETS even after 2012. However, Norway has a higher ambition than the EU, so ideally we want the turnover of allowances to be such that it means that allowances-based businesses are to buy allowances. Then it is that the inclusion of the ETS Directive in the EEA Agreement is not clarified either. The conclusion of what I have said now, in answer to the question, is that we want a system that takes care of the Norwegian business community. We're not adding up to a system that's supposed to be aimed at shutting down businesses. That is why, when that time comes, we will conclude.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e149	The government and the red-green parties have worked intensively against the so-called quota reserve being set aside. The proposal to introduce a general quota reserve, as proposed by the Right and the Advance Party, is rejected. Our proposal has received broad support from the municipality of Rana, the municipality of the home of the company that is most brutally hit, namely Celsa Armeringssteel. Norwegian Industry, NHO and LO made clear and unambiguous in their request to support the proposal of the Right and the Advance Party for a general quota reserve during the hearing on this matter. What are the parties to the Rana Municipality and the social partners that have not understood the government parties in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e158	The underlying thing is that we don't add up to a general allowance reserve for new business, and that the polluter has to pay in the time that's left, after the notification. If we use the example of Celsa, which was probably the question, then the emission figure for Celsa, the type of enterprise, is so complex, as I did in my post, that it's not given that they'll come out better if they were looking for the new system, or whether they were based on historical allowances, which they now have. I want to mention three relationships. One is that they have emissions from energy, from use and from the process. This has changed since the expansion. The second is that they have complained about the emission factor on process emissions. In fact, the third is that there is an application from Celsa for allowances due to the allocation of excess gas – it further complicates this. This is not a simple picture. Therefore, no answer has been given as to what the result will be with a reserve system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e167	Since the representative Kristoffersen did not answer the question from the representative of Solvik-Olsen, I must start again and try to make it a little simpler. Firstly, we must start with the European Union. In Norway, it is necessary to stand a bit down in the sand in order not to realize that the EU is going to award its industry, even in 2012 and beyond, between 70 and 90 pst. free allowances — most likely between 80 and 90 pst. free allowances. The question then is quite specific: will the Workers' Party go in order for Norwegian industry, even after 2012, to get free quotas at the level of what is allocated in the EU?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e174	Now this is not such a simple question as it is now. I said in my reply to Ketil Solvik-Olsen that we cannot conclude now. We must take into account that the inclusion of the ETS Directive in the EEA Agreement is not clarified. It's an important premise for our system after 2012. Then we also know that the EU wants – either you will have respect for the answers, or you will hear after – to set the quota system after 2012. It's not clear what it's going to be either. I have said in the answer that we want to have a system that is so suitable for our business that we do not remove Norwegian businesses. It is that of course we have to deal with how the EU manages this system after 2012. That will be my position. That is also the attitude of the Government and the Council of State, I expect.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e183	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e187	When we discuss this matter, I start to think a little bit about stories that I've read in Donald's journals, about the good old classics. It always says: Old classics – to the joy of new readers. That's what this topic is about. If we had had a real discussion in 2007, and where the reality of the opposition, the Right and the Advance Party, proposals had actually been discussed in the government parties, we would not have had this discussion here today. All that Advancement Party and Right then proposed is exactly the same thing that ESA has had objections to and has called for changes. I am very pleased that the government has listened to ESA to ensure that Norwegian industry is not discriminated between themselves, but that one actually gets a better competitive situation for both new and old industries. This government's climate quota bill is better than the previous one. The government shall be in favour of this. It greatly meets the objections that we had on the previous occasion. But it is worrying, as I said, when the Council of State in the interpellation debate that we had on January 9th, yelled and said that he thought it was fun to chat with the Progress Party in environmental matters – in fact, more than giving the matter proper treatment. That is why I hope that the Council of State now listens to the actual objections that I want to make – because there are a few things left – and deal with them in substance rather than making this a blatant debate about who takes things most seriously, and who does not take things the most seriously. There are again some important themes. Although it has now ceased to discriminate against existing industries, depending on the time they have been established, future industries will continue to be discriminated against. That's what the law adds up to. The quota requirements for Norwegian industry are also stricter than those in the rest of the world, without any environmental impact, but they provide a cost increase for Norwegian industry. I'll get into those two points. I hope that the economic situation that both the country and the world are in now makes it possible for us to look at these matters a little more seriously than what we've done before. The imposition of costs on businesses in Norway that do not exist in other countries is not the right medicine to ensure that the Norwegian economy stays on the rails in the current situation. I don't think it's accidental that Hydro shuts down business in Norway rather than in other countries. This is simply because they see that the costs in Norway will be higher in view of both the non-compliance of the industrial power plant and a CO2 quota system that imposes exceptional costs. New industry is coming out badly with the government's arrangements. Norway is simply not a good place for re-establishment. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that the quota reserves should be extended to all new start-ups, not just gas power plants. I think the logic of the government is that if you don't allocate new free allowances to the new industry, they will kind of have an incentive to conjure up a technology that cuts emissions faster than you would otherwise have done. It's a logic that sounds pretty good, but I don't think it works. There is no reason to believe that a new company will be able to invent a technology that is not on the market today and that would not have been put into service, even if all free allowances were removed. Let me use two examples. We have visited Elkem Aluminium several places in the country. They are developing a carbotermic aluminium production where they can cut energy consumption by up to 30 pst. and thus cut the CO2 emissions by approx. Same thing. If they can actually make this commercially profitable, it means a lot to the world's energy consumption and to the world's CO2 emissions. But the point here is that it'll still be 70 pst. of emissions even if they get to the next generation of aluminium production technology, and if we're going to have the approximation that they're not going to get a single free quota, that means they're still going to have the cost of 70 pst., which, even with the next generation of technology, is not possible to get away. This means that if they establish in Norway, they will have a significant cost that they would not have if they established that production in other countries. Ergo means the approach taken by the Government — although well-intentioned — that Norway does not become the country in which it is attractive to establish new environmentally friendly technologies, because you get a cost that you do not get in other countries. NorFra Kalk is the second example. In the hearing held by the Energy and Environment Committee, it became clear that NorFra Kalk was built in order to have three production lines. But they've only launched one today. And with the law to be passed now, they won't start building the next two lines because they don't get free allowances for it. Ergo is given a anti-competitive condition in Norway which means that it is actually more attractive to move this out of the country if they are to invest more. That's worrying, because this is the most environmentally friendly limestone plant in the whole world in this area. They've been using the best available technology, so there's no logic that non-allocation of free allowances means suddenly finding a new technology that doesn't have emissions. That's not the way the world is. Things will go step by step -- I think we're going to accept that, and that's why we're going to be good at gradually tightening up the requirements in relation to the total emissions. But strangling it overnight, such as this – that is, establishing yourself from now on, doesn't get anything – doesn't make any good results for business or the environment. For this demand for aluminium, lime or what it should be, will come from other places in the world that do not have strict requirements, and thus we will get higher emissions than if we had made them establish themselves in Norway. In addition, we lose the opportunity for Norwegian footwear industry in Norway to develop production methods that are themselves an export article. That would be regrettable. Then the Government of its defence writes that the EU has opened up not to allocate free allowances to new industries. It is true, but what the government does not write is that there are no countries in the EU that are going to take advantage of it. Everyone has a quota reserve for new industries simply because the EU sees that they are destroying their own business by having a strict framework for this. That's why I hope the Government will also turn around for the last second, so that we can say that Norwegian industry should not only have a social responsibility in relation to what they are going to do on the environmental side, but that the authorities and the Stortinge actually facilitate the exercise of this social responsibility in such a way that you can actually make money at the same time. For what is the problem for Norwegian business today is not only a liquidity dispute, but also profitability. Even if they get a loan, it is not safe for them to make money on what to invest in. Then we need to ensure that it is possible to run economically in Norway. Then I will challenge the Government in relation to the quota reserve they have set up – 4.2 million tonnes of CO2 if I don't remember completely wrong – and it should only be for ‘high-efficiency thermal power plants’. Then I think there is reason to ask if the Government believes that the quota reserve for ‘high-efficiency thermal power plants’ will actually be used, and who will then use it? Is it Mongstad that's meant for this – and only Mongstad? What other actors do you think could get on the road? If I am not mistaken, the government's stated policy on the CO2 side is that all new gas power plants in Norway should be based on CO2 cleaning at start-up. Yesterday we got the cost picture of what it would be, i.e. approx. $25 billion in Mongstad. That includes a portion of the refinery, but say we're halving it, we have a cost of NOK 12.5 billion. Who wants to set up a gas power plant in Norway and take a cost of DKK 12.5 billion in addition to cleaning? Ergo: I have no faith that more gas power plants will be built in Norway with the framework conditions. Then the question is, why do we need quota servers? I hope the Council of State explains that. If he doesn't come up with a good explanation, it's an even better argument that the set-off allowance must be able to expand to new activities. Then we have already heard from the representative Kristoffersen – I assume that all the red-green politicians, including the Council of State, will come up with the same argument – that it tightened the quota allocation to the industry in Norway is necessary for the environment. I would like that to be justified, because the CO2 emissions in Europe are regulated in relation to the Kyoto agreement, which limits the number of CO2 allowances in circulation. The Norwegian Government can dispose of approx. 50.3 million tonnes of CO2 per year. It's allocated to the industry. The surplus keeps the government. If you want to cut CO2 emissions beyond what Kyoto Agreement requires, you have to start by removing allowances that are in circulation. What the government is doing with the allowances they don't allocate to the industry today is selling them to other countries. The right to emit CO2 is maintained for Ergo. So it doesn't mean anything to the environment if one allocates fewer allowances to Norwegian industry as long as one allows other developed countries to buy the same quotas and maintain their emissions. Ergo is no environmental justification. The only reason for what is now happening is the cost distribution. That's a real argument. But then one gets to be clear that this is about the government not wanting to lose revenue by selling the allowances, rather than saying that this is about the environment, for the Norwegian industry, with the government's proposal, will have a higher CO2 cost than it would otherwise have, while the government will get higher CO2 revenue than they would otherwise have. It's fair enough if one seems the most important thing is to maintain the income of the state. But if the CO2 accounting is the most important thing here, any allowances that are not allocated to the industry should be maculated, so they should be removed from circulation. Then you get the results. What one does by maintaining CO2 quotas in circulation is that one reduces the CO2 price that industry in Europe has. So even if one would like to have a tight allocation incentive in Norway to apply CO2 reduction measures faster than another would have done, an incentive similar to that in the other European countries, which would then get a lower CO2 quota price than they would otherwise have if these allowances had not been in circulation. I sincerely want to hear the state council's reasoning behind this and how he can prove that an actually gets reduced CO2 emissions out of this, and that he does not just leave with the usual rhetoric and the hoax that those who disagree with the Government are opposed to trying to cut CO2 emissions. I also want the Council of State to explain why it is so important to keep a secret about the quota trade. The only reason I see for that is that the government here sees that they actually sell more allowances than they buy. The government always receives a look-up when they say that they should put measures abroad and buy allowances there, and ergo appears to be the driver of CO2 measures. But the fact is that this year more allowances will be sold in total than the government buys, the government helps to increase the net circulation of CO2 allowances in the market. Why should this be kept secret? I want to get a good reason for that from the Government. I have seen the letter that the Ministry of Finance sent to the Ministry of Justice before Christmas. There is no good presumption that this has to be kept secret. All they say is that the market for the sale of allowances is competitive and that one should then be able to keep their transaction plans secret. We don't want to sit and know about every allowance purchased. But the point is that one has to be able to have some openness — a considerable openness — around this. All the environmental organisations that I have talked to today – from Bellona to ZERO – support the requirement of transparency. I hope that the Government will follow it and actually show openness also in terms of money spent on environmental measures. I also hope that the Council of State can answer a few other questions. It is important that Norwegian industry comes out at least as well with this law as with the previous law, and that some industrial companies come out even better. It was just supposed to be missing! That's what ESA pointed out wrong. But I would like confirmation that Kårstø gas power plant will come out as well now as it did at the first round of allocation. I have no problem with those who criticise the quota allocation around Kårstø gas power station, and that by closing the company gets a quota that one can sell in the market. It gives a completely unfair signal in relation to the environmental work. It shall not be such as to close businesses and make money on quota sales. But if Kårstø is in full operation for one year, will a few as many free allowances for the year that is in full operation, as one would get under the previous regime that the Government provided? I hope to get an answer to that. I also hope that the Council of States can consider whether NorFra Kalk can expect to have framework conditions that give free CO2 allowances if they expand their second and third lines, just as they now get on their first line. It is important in relation to their willingness to invest. Finally, what I tried to get information about from the representative Kristoffersen: How does the government see that the regime will be after 2012? This is an important question, because it is about long-termity and predictability for business. It is not an industrial enterprise that invests with a three-year time horizon. An investor with a 20–30–40–50-year time horizon. Then it is important to know what the world looks like if this government is to decide after 2012 – God had to ban, right! The reason we're dealing with this is that the representative Nordtun in a press release himself has written that one says not to have a single free quota allocation after 2012. The representative of Thorkildsen has said in Stortinget – 18 December 2007, if I don't remember completely wrong – that this government goes beyond the EU and will not have free allowances after 2012. Can the State Council confirm that they consider the revised EU ETS to be EEA-relevant and will thus introduce it and that they will not use the right of reservation against the Directive? And can the Council of State respond to whether it will consider negotiating adaptation texts of the Directive in order to create special Norwegian allocation rules? I hope that's not the case. With this, I would like to address the proposal on which the Progress Party is involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e295	The representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to. The President would point out that ‘moderate God forbid’ is an unparliamentary way of expressing himself. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e302	I have taken the time to go back to the Environmental Manifesto of the Advance Party, i.e. Document No. 8:97 for 2006–2007, which was promoted for Stortinget, and I’ll just quote a few things. The Progress Party notes that the bulk of the population has commitments under the Kyoto agreement and that only follow-up is necessary. The progressing party says that: ‘Norway is currently obliged by the Kyoto Agreement to limit the total greenhouse gas emissions to approximately. 50 million tonnes of CO2 on average from 2008 to 2012.’ Then the Progress Party goes on to say: ‘The proposers would recall that the Progress Party had already made proposals in the UK in June 2002 that Norway should use the Kyoto mechanisms in full, including quota trading.’ Finally, I would like to quote: ‘The proposers wish to turn the debate over to discuss actions rather than objectives with this proposal.’ Yes, there were not many happy things the representative Solvik-Olsen had in his post. [[The President clubs.]] Where are the commitments and measures referred to by Solvik-Olsen in the document?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e322	The President will recall that the speaking time for line changes is up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e325	I think that was a good question. I hoped he would see for himself that the question had no connection with the post I made, because the proposal to which the representative Nordtun refers was the Progress Party's action list to cut CO2 emissions. What we are adopting today does not imply any changes in relation to the total CO2 emissions that you will receive on a adoption of the Progress Party and the Right's proposal versus the Government's proposal. Emission reductions will be exactly the same. There is no contradiction between the argument that the representative Nordtun is trying to make from what the Progress Party has stood for in the past and what we are arguing for now. The real changes proposed by the Advance Party and the Right are that one should not impose costs on industry, but that one should actually reduce the country’s revenues from selling CO2 allowances, which does not harmonize with the argument that a greater CO2 cut will actually be achieved with the Government’s plans. This is about cost assessments. So it's not about trying to change the total emissions from Norwegian business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e344	The installation that Ketil Solvik-Olsen kept right now was not really about climate and environment at all. The only thing that was involved was a concern that Norwegian business would have problems. I believe that the developments we have seen in countries that have not taken the climate problem seriously, and which are comparable to the policies that the Progress Party otherwise stands for, show that what we should be most concerned about, is that we are also at the back of turning business into competitive within climate change. General Motorser is an example of a competitively very bad situation if you're not ahead of development. I have to say that I am concerned about the approach of the Progress Party to this. I don't think the Progress Party is going to be a good ally for the business that sees you need to change to be competitive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e353	I didn't realize it was a question. This was just a common spider-and-galle blast from the representative Thorkildsen. Yes, it is true that my post was chemically free of sentence-day descriptions, which SV prefers to use in such debates. On the other hand, I spent a lot of time discussing what is the actual content of how to get a climate quota law to work so that one does not change business by forcing them to go bankrupt and fly out of the country, but by actually facilitating that they can maintain their competitiveness, by ensuring profitability for what they are doing, and by ensuring that they get a quota allocation that makes it interesting to establish new aluminium production in Norway instead of sending it abroad. I would also like to know, as the representative of Thorkildsen has asked for a new line, whether she can mention any car brands produced by General Motors, in addition to Hummer. I would also ask her if all the other brands in the world are making good money in today's economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e362	I intend to ask a question on my own, and the representative Solvik-Olsen can take a reply afterwards. My question is whether the representative Solvik-Olsen can see that environmental requirements have been imposed by the Norwegian authorities and requirements for, for example. occupational safety, or offshore, for that matter, the requirements for employee rights, competence, ensuring that we are in the forefront of Norway, have in fact also meant that we have gained a more robust business life, a more adaptable business life, and thus also secured Norwegian jobs. In addition, it has resulted in smaller emissions, both greenhouse gas emissions and emissions affecting human beings in the immediate environment, or long-range emissions affecting human beings in other countries. Is there no advantage to going ahead?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e369	I mentioned many major advantages in my post by facilitating the competitive development of technology and its use in Norway by Norwegian businesses. Elektrom's carbotermic aluminium production is an example of this. But one does not allow the Norwegian industry to go ahead if one completely destroys their profitability. That is what EN will soon have to learn, that in fact one must be able to create values in an enterprise in order for one to live in the future, and not force it to implement all kinds of unrealistic demands. When Norwegian business has become competitive, it is because, in cooperation with the authorities, they have made framework agreements in which industry itself implements the measures. What the Government is now putting in place is, of course, to bind each company to the possibility of being allocated additional allowances if it implements measures on its own holding. The possibilities of establishing new production, obtaining allowances for it and competing on the world market – this is where the Government goes completely blind in an environmental doomsday rhetoric rather than looking at the realities of the enterprises it concerns.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e376	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e379	The reason why we have this issue re-examined lies in the idea that today’s red-green parties are trying to spread across Norwegian society, namely the fact that it is believed that Norway has higher ambitions in the field of climate policy than the EU has. It's going to be repeated today. But no matter how many times this is repeated, unfortunately it's not right. That leads far from being true. There is also no layer of coating in today's reprisal exercise of a case that this has root in reality. Rather on the contrary, it is possible to penalise businesses through a new strangely isolated company in this area, and in particular that company based in Mo in Rana, which has really invested several hundred million dollars in environmental measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to significantly reduce dust emissions, 95 pst. the reduction of mercury emissions, an equal amount of reduction in emissions of other dioxins and a significant reduction in energy consumption. So you do that by punishing yourself through today's solitude and special arrangement. This does not have the effect of pre-empting environmental investment. There is a sort of Norwegian monopoly, once again, that violates the whole EU doctrine, and that violates the system we have adopted in the EEA as an EEA partner, that we should have the same type of competition law in Norway as in Europe. This is the whole basic idea of the European Union based on which EEA membership is also based. Nevertheless, in this case one wants a sort of isolation. We, as the only of 28 nations in Europe, do not allocate a general quota reserve, and this is where the problem lies today. And you do that, even though you almost had open eyes in the extra week in June 2007, you chose to challenge the ESA system. After strong warnings from just the Progress Party and the Right, we went towards challenging the system, with a significant risk of loss. This has been a loss of environmental policy in Norway, which has suffered from Norwegian jobs. We have lost a year in trade development and experience. And when we are talking today about putting in place systems that are to be robust and long-term, with the name also, with reference to Celsa Arming Steel, and that yesterday arrangements were put in place to provide a certain perspective of stability, it is the day before today's debate, and a year and a year and so on, in relation to when the directive came into force. Of course, I am very pleased that we wanted it to go, that all industry should have the same opportunities, and in particular the industry that has recently invested in the latest and best-imaginable environmental equipment available, unlike the government parties, who want to punish this type of industry, of course to the detriment of Norwegian industry, but the more pleased perhaps for competing units abroad. Once again, when we want to underline the need to have a general quota reserve in place, it is not, as the positioning parties want to produce it, so that we want larger emissions. Rather, it is the opposite — it is to stimulate the part of Norwegian business that wants to invest in environmental equipment, to look at Norway as an area for investment in this type of equipment, so that it is not forced to invest abroad. The government's parties are most likely to shoot themselves in the foot when one strongly argues that high-efficiency thermal power plants need free quotas, as is the only sector. These must be given, because of the importance of this sector being given the opportunity to develop new technologies. It is not easy to understand why the same government parties will not grant free allowances to other sectors that face the same challenges, namely the development of new technologies that they will need to develop, and which, of course, free allowances could have been a contribution to getting in place. I also do not know whether you are able to understand or argue something portable for the government parties, but I strongly doubt that this is possible. We have seen that it is in the direction of the EU setting the terms of the EEA Agreement, that it is the EU that is going to determine the interpretation of how we implement the Directive in Norway, and in many ways we are going to be responsible for it. That means that these laps in overtime we don't need any more. This means that all industries get the same conditions from 2013 onwards. These decisions are not going to be taken in this house, but by the Commission. I think it is important to stress this, because this is about having a competition law in place that does not penalise individual companies, which is actually done in Norway by not allocating a general quota reserve as the only country in Europe. When you say that, in fact, it is more high-value by the Norwegian state, which has a quota reserve of 7 million tonnes this year, to sell it abroad, to a European country, than to give the Rana company Celsa a very small quota reserve, I have to allow myself to ask the question: what is the environmental benefit when Kristin Halvorsen and Erik Solheim are to sell off the state quota, for example. to a cement factory in Slovakia, in relation to whether this same quota reserve could have been granted free of charge to, for example, Celsa Lubrication Steel in Mo i Rana, which is defined by the State's own instrument, SFT, as the world's purest steelworks? I hope that the Solheim Council will have the opportunity to get a little closer to this. In fact, this system of sales of allowances is going to make good money from the Norwegian state. You cut yourself on this system. There's nothing immoral about it, but the immoral thing is that at a time when you want to stimulate investment in environmental technology, you don't give the same opportunities to Norwegian industry as you give to others. I think that is a great regret. The important thing now is to get started and become part of the European quota trade. And then you don't have to say that you can get another appeal, which in turn means that as Europe looks forward to the post-2012 period, we're looking back at what we should have done before 2008. Finally, let me say that I believe today's government parties have really given their legal departments in several departments a little bit of some challenges, at least all the documents bear the mark of the legal challenges this case has given. It's certainly not easy to understand the conclusions you want to land on. And it seems easy to ask questions about a part of Norwegian business when one hears red-green politicians in this matter almost indirectly say that these companies do not know their own best. When we look at the Ministry's legal investigations in order to figure out what kind of quota requirements one or the other enterprise should have, how approximate and uncertain these at times seem to be to individual enterprises, this illustrates that balancing this, this strange way of doing things, it's not certain that it benefits neither environmental policy nor technology development, and at least not the Norwegian process industry in a time of financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e393	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e396	I record that the Right now and otherwise in word use expresses ambitions for a good environmental and climate policy. In the matter we are discussing today, climate quota policy, the Government stands with the Christian People's Party and the Left, while the Right in its position, and in its wording now on the pulpit of the representative Kristiansen, acts almost like a cloned version of the Progress Party. The point of light, however, is that the Right might want to improve the climate, but it doesn't. And then I have to state: When will the Right be willing to use instruments that are fairly proportionate to the objectives expressed both here and earlier by the Right, when they do not want to use the Climate Quota Act as a tool to achieve any further?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e403	I expect the representative, Kristoffersen, to be well aware that the Right and the Advance Party's proposals in this matter do not bring one kilogram more total greenhouse gas emissions, either internationally or here. I think we should all be aware of that in this Chamber. I would also have a slightly lower profile, because if I have understood correctly, the greenhouse gas emissions in Norway are still increasing relatively uncontrolled, and we are far away from the goals we were with the government parties to set. We made an important contribution to the climate agreement in Stortinget, so I believe the representative Kristoffersen will find that our ambitions as such were far ahead of the Government's proposals in the climate communication. Had you listened to the Right, you would have come much further in this field than is the case today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e410	I would like to start by reminding you that some of the reasons why we have such large emissions increases today are not least due to the gas power plant at Melkøya. And that's the representative of Kristiansen's own government that gave emission permits to, so who's going to be high and dark in this room, I'm a little uncertain about. In the case of another emission increase that was adopted, namely the Skarv expansion, the signed plus a few more – but at least not Ivar Kristiansen – were the only ones who pointed out that this was going to increase our emissions by 1 pst. It was completely uninteresting to the representative of Kristiansen then. My question, however, concerns Celsa. Kristiansen argues as if it's just a delusion from us that's why Celsa can't be allocated a general allowance reserve. But this is about the whole EU system. We don't have the opportunity to say that we set aside a reserve, and that it should go to Celsa, and the representative Kristiansen knows that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e419	No Marte Thorkildsen's posts had been better suited in the lawn outside this hall, when she took care of both Snow White Development and SV's general, primary attitude to these questions. One actually participates in a government cooperation where SV has officially agreed to these things, and I think that one must be able to join. In the case of Celsa, in the few seconds left, I will give Inga Marte Thorkildsen the advice that she listens to her party traps from the Rana Municipality. Some of them are employed on the company, and some of them have worked for several years – they are among the most active in the country – to develop new environmental technologies. In fact, the previous government was also involved, through money contributions, in stimulating investment in technology that could develop and reduce greenhouse gas emissions in the Rana municipality, which was at the top of Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e426	In my post, I intend to touch on what is SV's history in relation to Celsa, and as the representative of Kristiansen is well aware, some of the reasons why some of the cleaning measures that have been implemented were put in place, that there was an agreement between SV and the previous government, of which the Right was part, which meant a transfer of 30 million. kr. In addition to that, our government made sure that excess gas could be used, which has also had an impact on Celsa, and now we have also partially responded to the complaint from Celsa related to the scrap iron factor. That's something we think is positive. The point is that it's not possible for us to say that we are going to have a general quota reserve and that Celsa is going to be guaranteed to get allowances from it. Does not the representative of Kristiansen agree that it is a correct description that we cannot adopt anything so specific under the ESA legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e431	There's no one in this room, I think, who has suggested or ever is going to suggest that you allocate an earmarked quota to Celsa. However, as the only country that has not established a general quota reserve, Norway should have ensured that Celsa could be granted access to applications. Then it becomes to me a fairy tale that the Socialist Left Party is able to give a quota reserve to so-called high-efficiency thermal power plants as the only sector to have this quota reserve donated. But Celsa Arming Steel in Mo in Rana, defined by SFT as the best in the world, does not have the concern of the Socialist Left at all in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e436	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e439	The rapporteur has presented the amendments proposed here as a consequence of the ESA references. So I'm going to spend the time talking a little bit more generally. SV is working to convert Norway into a low-emission country, a country that does not destroy the life base of other people through high greenhouse gas emissions and over-exploitation of natural resources. But we are also concerned about stressing that in the climate problem there are great opportunities both for the nation and for the industry. We can create new jobs, we can make existing jobs more robust, and we can develop new industries that can help solve the global climate problem. Often we meet politicians with strong opposition when we want to go ahead, as it is called, by, for example. to impose strict environmental requirements. The CO2 tax on Norwegian base and the sulphur tax are good examples. Both charges were strongly opposed. However, the sulphur tax has led to new, innovative solutions related to the further processing and sale of what was previously a problem and a cost item, namely industrial waste. The CO2 tax, which created ramsy in Norway when it arrived, is now used by the oil industry itself – including Helge Lund in Sandefjord recently – to show that the Norwegian oil industry is the world’s most environmentally friendly. It was even said that it is an advantage with environmental requirements from the authorities. I could also mention many other examples in terms of the environment, security and rights, which have been strongly opposed in the run-up to Norwegian competitiveness. In retrospect, it has often been shown that this has contributed to a fairly robust, competent and adaptive business in Norway. It is therefore gratifying that industry is more favourable than before to the environmental requirements of government. Norse Yara, for example, wants to do this. into the quota system and have developed purification systems for which they see a large future market. Of course, a keyword is predictability. The quota system will be very important in Norwegian climate policy. But the system has its weaknesses, such as fluctuating and unpredictable quota prices and the lack of drivers for technological developments that require large investments without being profitable in the short term. Therefore, the community must contribute, which our CO2 management projects are examples of. The fight for gas power plants is also a story of how stringent environmental requirements gave new opportunities: a no to highly polluting gas power plants became a yes to the clean-up and landfill of CO2 – thus placing Norway and Norwegian technological environments in the driver’s seat internationally. The point is that conversion is a trick. It is also solidarity, it is competitively sensible, and it is important to ensure robust jobs. Centrally, too, transformation into a climate-friendly society will be more expensive the longer we wait. Of course, the SV and the Government are committed to maintaining the environment and energy efficient industry in Europe in parallel with the development of the quota system. This means finding solutions to prevent any carbon leakage while not weakening the effectiveness of the allowance system. However, maintaining an environmentally and energy-efficient industry in Europe does not necessarily require the allocation of allowances free of charge. There are also other instruments that can be used. Contamination of the payer principle is the background to the Government’s not wanting to allocate allowances free of charge in Europe after 2012 and not wanting to allocate free allowances from a general allowance reserve. The free allowances for the 2008–2012 period have been considered as a so-called introduction offer. New and extended enterprises must take into account climate costs when making investment decisions. Free allowances for such activities will help to stimulate investments in activities with significant greenhouse gas emissions. It is true that some free allowances from or to not necessarily lead to an increase in global emissions. However, this could lead to increased national emissions, and subsidisation of investments leading to increased national emissions does not contribute to the transformation of society needed to solve the climate problem. In addition, it costs society something to allocate free allowances. The Community must pay for the pollution of others. Finally, a little bit about Celsa, which we were in the middle of. SV has a history of this company, or Fundia, as it used to be. In 2005, we negotiated an agreement with the then bourgeois government. SV demanded, and got through, a grant of 30 million. kr as a State contribution to the clean-up of mercury from the steelworks, from 2005. SV had proposed support for Fundia Arming Steel – or Celsa – in all budgets since 2003. The aim was to eliminate huge mercury emissions and to contribute to the development of new best available environmental technologies for the steel industry in Norway. It was also a confession that the authorities had to take a certain responsibility for everything that comes with 350 000 tonnes of Norwegian scrap iron collected. SV was also strongly involved in the creation of a special rule in the quota system for enterprises such as Celsa, which use excess gas. I am pleased that the Ministry of the Environment has now given Celsa partial support in its complaint, because the standard factor for calculating the emissions from the treatment of scrap steel does not reflect the conditions of the steelworks in Mo. Overall, I believe that SV has shown that we want to contribute to environmentally friendly conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e468	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e471	It was an article with a lot of sensible reasoning that I recognize, a course into the future that I think combines offensive environmental policies with an ambitious industrial policy. I think that's right. SV was together with the central parts of the gas power case when it was intense in Norwegian policy a few years ago, and where Jens Stoltenberg was leading the work of collapsing the central government because he had such a keen desire to build gas power plants on Kårstø. It might be interesting to hear the SV representative reasoning that the Government is now allocating free allowances to the gas power plant, and that even if the gas power plant at Kårstø is standing still, a earner can earn money on allowances allocated by the Government. Is there SV's policy, or is it the result of a compromise within the Government where SV has lost and must go from what is their primary position in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e481	I want to start by thanking you for the rose. I think SV and Left have a lot in common in many of these cases. But the entire government, and I believe a lot in the Stortinget – with the exception of at least the Progress Party, and I want to say that I also doubt the Right – see that climate policy and industrial policy are two sides of the same coin. It's a good idea to convert. It's a good idea to be early out, because it costs society less. But of course it also has a side of solidarity and a moral side. As far as gas power plants are concerned, as I pointed out, it is that what was stated as a backward-looking attitude from the supporters of gas power plants, namely that we would not have gas power plants or that we would have gas power plants with cleaning, has now proved to be an advantage to Norway. Then it's like allocating some free allowances to the gas power plant at Kårstø, but it's reduced to one-third. There is something SV is very elevated with, so the answer is that SV is satisfied with how it has now evolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e490	This means that SV is satisfied that the gas power plant at Kårstø will receive free allowances that will most likely represent more than the emissions they will carry with the profile you are currently viewing on the company and that are dependent on the gas price and the power price. So one could imagine that one has more allowances than one actually emits. So that's SV satisfied with. I take note of that. The left took the view that when the gas power plant is stationary, it should be a minimum requirement that one surrender the allowances for that period and not sell and earn a quota sale that helped to maintain emissions elsewhere. Is there a reasoning that SV knows about at home?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e497	As I said in my previous answer, we are pleased that one third of what was the starting point for the gas power plant at Kårstø is now being allocated. But what's our main focus on Kårstø is that we're going to get a clean-up of the emissions that are there. And there I think that both the Left and the SV have a lot in common and can work together in the future, so that we get a sufficiently good solution related to this gas power plant that we all know both parties were warning against in the beginning, mainly because it would lead to a lot of emissions that we didn't need, and then because it wouldn't be profitable. We were many who pointed it out in their time, and it turned out to be right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e502	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e505	Connecting to the EU's climate quota market is an important part of Norwegian climate policy. The Christian People's Party therefore deeply regrets the fact that today, one and a half years after the quota law was signed, the Stortinget is forced to re-approve the quota law. The reason, as I see it, is a bad political craft from the Government. I am surprised that a government that has left open and said that it would give priority to trading of allowances over national climate action, has not yet managed to get us against the EU's quota market. The system of quotas is in force for the period 2008 to 2012. We are now in February 2009, but Norway is still not included. The delays will make it harder for Norway to meet its international obligations. The situation is not improved by the continued increase in national emissions. In the Climate Change Communication, the Government promised to overfulfill Norway’s obligations under the Kyoto Protocol by 10 pst. According to my calculations, Norway is very poor in relation to this obligation. On Monday, the Statistical Central Agency presented the final emissions figures for 2007. The number indicates that Norway has set a new emission record. Greenhouse gas emissions were 11 pst in 2007. higher than in 1990. The point between this reality and the Government's purpose is striking. The goal is to emit an average of 9 pst. below 1990 levels in the period 2008 to 2012. On 30 November 2008, the Government withdrew half a billion dollars intended for the planned 2008 government allowance purchase. The same thing happened in 2007. Allowances were to be purchased in developing countries, but experience has shown that it is difficult to find serious projects in the third world. On Monday we could read in Today's Business that Norway's only trading partners for quotas in developing countries, the financial group Sindicatum Carbon Capital, is the penalty for violations of the money laundering rules. According to Today's Business, the Ministry of Finance has now launched a large device to hide who the Government is doing climate business with, despite the fact that trade in so-called CDM allowances is the government's main instrument in fulfilling the Kyoto agreement. The government's refusal to implement the necessary national measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, combined with the lack of results before the trading of allowances, makes it very close to concluding that the Government has already given up the commitments to over-fulfill Kyoto commitments. I have noticed that the recommendations from the Low Emissions Selection have been added. State councils will have to correct if I'm wrong. So over to the matter that we have to deal with. The Christian People's Party has gone into this matter with the clear intention of contributing to rapid treatment. It is important that allowances are issued before 30 April 2009, which is the date of surrender of allowances for 2008. The Christian People's Party supports the changes proposed by the Government to meet the demands of ESA. For the Christian People's Party, it's an important principle that you have to pay for it. National climate policy should be set up in such a way that Norwegian enterprises are encouraged to adapt to such a climate policy. With this background, the Christian People's Party believed that the government should originally add up to a tighter arrangement. It is positive that the Government in this case has tightened the allocation of the free quota for the gas power plant at Kårstø. The Christian People's Party also shares the Government's view that a general quota reserve should not be created for extensions, increases in production and new start-ups. The EU ETS Directive provides for discrimination between existing and new enterprises in the allocation of free allowances. The general rule thereafter is that allowances for new enterprises established free of charge will not be added after 28 March 2008. I can only see that there is a fundamental distinction between Stortings plural and Right and the Progress Party. These parties argue for the creation of the general quota reserve for start-ups, which the Christian People's Party believes could help undermine the entire quota trading system. It's particularly disappointing that the right-hand side sits on such a line. I feel this is a violation of the policy of the Bondevik government, and what the current Minister for the Environment Børge Brende is doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e526	In the Centre Party, we are busy and taking over the serious signals pointed to by the UN Climate Panel through several important reports. The increasing global greenhouse gas emissions will have a major and dramatic impact on the global climate – the effects that we already see are occurring largely in parts of the world. Rapidly increasing temperature will be a major threat to biological deficiency, and changing climate will have great consequences for people all over the globe. The Central Party believes that all countries have a responsibility to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and thus contribute to minimising the extent of climate change. We mean that Norway as a rich country, and a country with relatively large indirect and direct emissions, has a special responsibility to contribute to climate change. Therefore, we have actively worked to ensure that Norway takes on responsibilities and obligations through international agreements in the field of climate change. Climate quotientelova is one of several hubs to reach the target of reduced emissions. It is easy to participate in bold goals when it comes to reduction in emissions, but it is only when one is going to put in action measures that build up under the measures, we are going to see which political party has its back on the ones measured by one's own self to sit down – or once in a while to disappear. Right is worth a study in this context – so I won't say anything more about it. The polluter-pays principle is one of the most important elements of environmental policy. Climate quotientelova is just a law to build up under this principle. It is now important that climate allowances should be managed quickly and that we should be part of the European climate allowances system. This is important, so that Norwegian industry knows what to do, and it is important for the work on emission reductions. The majority have chosen to be more ambitious than the EU by not opening a general quota reserve. This is a deliberate choice that challenges, but at the same time it highlights the importance of business adaptation. It is also important for the polluter-pays principle to be introduced. In the long run, we see that making more stringent environmental requirements for business really doesn't have to be unilaterally negative for the businesses it's in. StatoilHydro-chef, Helge Lund, said at a conference for the petroleum industry in Sandefjord a few weeks ago that the introduction of environmental protection requirements, e.g. CO2 tax, has the incentive to make the company more competitive during the time we are now in. This shows that early implementation of environmental policies can also be a strength for the competitiveness of business. On the other hand, this must be a balanced development – a development in which businesses are taken into account in their work, in which a guarantee that one does not proceed so quickly that it is impossible for business to follow, or that the competitive potential of the business community is not significantly balanced compared to the framework conditions of the countries with which we compete. We are well within the framework in this matter, too, after the view of the Centre Party. Norwegian industry is well advanced in the field of the environment. The case spokesperson has done the right thing in a good and tidy way and is to be commended for it. The lot of the centre connects to the legislative proposal as requested.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e546	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e549	Norwegian industry is also one of the most important regional policy instruments we have in this country – there are several thousand jobs in Norwegian districts. Perhaps, therefore, the Centre Party – unlike its government counterparts in SV and the Workers' Party – has not said that they want to enter zero free allowances for Norwegian industry after 2012. My question is therefore about the allocation of allowances to Norwegian industry in 2013 and thereafter. The question is: will the centre party agree that Norwegian industry will receive free allowances in 2013 and later, in line with the EU? The question is not whether one will be forced by the EU to accept it. Nor do I ask for speculation about what the EU is going to do – or not do. I am asking whether the central party's principal position is that Norwegian industry should have the same quota allocation as the EU in 2013.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e556	Let me first say in complete agreement that Norwegian industry is important for Norwegian districts. We see that there are large, important industrial workplaces around the districts that have a lot of employment and that help people to live and live throughout this country. It's important. But it is also the way that the industry should continue to be the engine it is many places in Norwegian districts, we need an industry that has a adaptability to environmental technology that will make it there in the future as well. And the Center Party doesn't want an industry that's rigid in forms, an industry that doesn't have the ability to convert, and that doesn't adapt to the environmental requirements that the future holds. There will be no useful travel caps for either district or urban area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e561	I note that the representatives of the government parties have a very difficult time answering the questions we are asking. I'm trying to be as precise as I can, but it doesn't go in. That's why I'm going to give it up – and then I'm going to accept that the Center Party will support the approach to Tore Nordtun and Inga Marte Thorkildsen that Norwegian industry will not have free allowances after 2013. Then I have to follow up something the representative Sande said in his reply to me. He said the industry should be there in the future as well. And if the Workers' Party and SV get a majority for their approach that there will be zero free allowances in 2013, an industrial enterprise like Elkem Thamshavn will get a cost per. annual work of NOK 400000. Does the representative believe what he himself says that that company is there in the future – with such a regime?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e568	I want to remind the representative Tord Lien that the industry that is now the corner stone industry in many Norwegian districts appears in a completely different way today than it did 60 years ago. It's an industry that's changed. It's an industry that uses energy much more efficiently. It's an industry that has much less emissions. I know myself from my home municipality Elkem Bremander, which has significant environmental adaptations that make one competitive, which means that 90 pst. of the world's mobile phones have silicon from Elkem Bremander – forward-looking, offensive jobs that one can be proud of in Norwegian districts. If that willingness to switch is not there, whether it is in the production of new products, adaptation to more efficient working methods or adaptation to environmental technology, it will look dark to Norwegian industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e574	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e577	The climate problem is the biggest environmental challenge we face. This fact is reinforced year by year. Global climate change will have serious consequences across a wide range. It will have a major and long-term economic impact on the entire world community, and it will be hardest hit by the poorest part of the world, which has the least resources to adapt to the changes that are coming. The natural basis is our basis for value creation and well-being. If we put the natural basis to play, we at the same time put our quality of life at stake and our standard of living. The left wants Norway to be a driving force in international climate change work and to motivate several countries to reduce their emissions. If we are to have credibility in this work, we need to reduce emissions at home and transform business into meeting future climate requirements. Norway has undertaken clear international climate commitments through the accession of the United Nations Convention on Climate Change and the subsequent Kyoto Protocol. This case is a follow-up to this and an adjustment to the allowance scheme treated by Stortinget in 2007. At the time, the Left was clear: in an allowance system linked to a new and more ambitious climate agreement after 2012, the polluter-pays principle should be implemented. Today it is too much for environmental costs to be shifted to future generations. It is important that Norway actively works towards the EU and the UN to ensure that the polluter pays principle is put in place. At the same time, national climate policy should be designed to stimulate Norwegian enterprises to adapt to such a future climate policy. The left therefore believes that the government's arrangements should initially be tighter, and greater obligations should have been imposed on the polluter. This must be seen in the context of the overall policy of the Left and the desire for a shift from red to green taxation, where increased environmental taxes, combined with more favourable tax conditions for businesses, are intended to provide the basis for a healthy business environment. To the left, it seemed unfortunate that the government joined a scheme where it would be cheaper than before for some industrial companies to pollute. This will make it more difficult to implement the transformation necessary to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and to contribute to the necessary technological development. It is positive that the Government in this case has tightened up the allocation of free allowances at the gas power plant at Kårstø, but this work still has substantial access to free allowances. This means that when the work is stationary, the sale of allowances can be the only business they contribute to – it will also contribute to pollution elsewhere. In the view of the Left, it should be a minimum requirement that gas power stations which are not in operation be subject to the withdrawal of their free allowances. And I registered that the SV's representative, although I asked twice about it, would not clarify whether it was also SV's view. I note that the majority wanted a less stringent quota arrangement than the Left when the matter was dealt with in Stortinget last, and that the Government's proposal in this matter today is based on the policy that the Government agreed to in Stortinget. I can also mention that, on behalf of the Committee today, I have written to the Minister of Finance, with a copy to the Minister for the Environment, asking for the papers and the information relating to quota trading, which have been requested by the Minister of Economic Affairs of today, but which the head of the SV - the Minister of Finance - has kept secret for one year. We want to get insight into this, which the Civil Ombudsman has also pointed to is natural. Transparency about quota trading, one of the main instruments of the Government's environmental policy, is, of course, to see what is actually going on, and to test the quality of the work involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e600	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e603	Me and the Center Party are usually excited by the right left talking about environmental policy, because we believe that like the Center Party, Left has a sincere and strong environmental exposure. What's exciting about doing that then, after listening to the Right in this room, is a different view of environmental policy than the Left, and it's not the first time – this: Each my left finds the good environmental solutions in Norwegian policy? Do you find them in the coalition that the Left often participates in in this room when it comes to environmental issues – i.e. the centre-left – or find them in layers with the Right and the Progress Party, with which the Left repeatedly separates layers when it comes to environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e608	The best environmental solutions are found in the programme of the Left. So they'll gradually decrease by how far one moves away from this. If Erling Sande is excited to listen to the Left, I would recommend him to read our environmental chapter in the program. When it comes to environmental policy designed in cooperation with others, we are so lucky that we have experience of it. Left, Christian People's Party and Right Cooperation in an excellent way, with good results when it comes to environmental policy. The emissions went down, as opposed to what they do under today's government. During the Johannesburg climate meeting, the then Environment Minister, Børge Brende, and Hilde Frafjord Johnson, who was then Minister for Aid, had a very central role in shaping an ambitious climate policy. The job that Norway did made a big difference and was noticed. There has been broad recognition in the Storting for the efforts of the previous government in the context of the Johannesburg climate negotiations. So we've shown that together with the Right Party and the Christian Party, we can find good solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e615	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e618	I feel that before we go to something as technical as quotas, we should remind each other what we are talking about. It's that the climate junk is a deadly threat. It's a very serious threat to humans. In particular, I would encourage those parties that use every opportunity here to attack the Government, to use a little bit of the same energy to combat climate change. If the Progress Party had used 10 pst. of the energy they use to fight the government, to fight the climate turmoil, we would have come much further. What we now see in Australia, is the climate turmoil is put into life, in reality, to humans – much more dry weather, just as expected by the United Nations Climate Panel, and more extremely hot weather. Thus there is a completely different basis for large fires, which have killed many people. It's related to the climate debris. Not only do I say that, but Australia's leading experts. That is the seriousness with which we must start this debate. So the climate noise requires drastic technological changes. That's the only basis on which we can solve this problem. This means major industrial change, but – as Mr Thorkildsen and many other speakers have pointed out – it will create great opportunities for new and better activities and a new and greener business life in Norway. The quota system shall contribute to the turning of business, from today's carbon-intensive business to climate-friendly business. The quota price is too low. The quota system alone will not do this. We have to do other things as well. Among other things, the industry itself is increasingly asking for regulation to produce environmentally friendly solutions, but the quota system is an important part of it. I would like to thank the Stortinget for a quick examination of the Government's proposals on the quota system issue. The ten-year effort is now rounded off. But in terms of the quotas, we're far from being at the end. I think we can use Churchill's words: this isn't the end. It's not even the beginning at the end. But that is, possibly, the end of the beginning of the quota system that is to be formed, as we now see. EU countries have made a powerful effort by agreeing on their climate and energy package before Christmas. It's much more ambitious, it includes several companies, and it introduces the sale of allowances as a dominant allocation form. So there are many positive elements in it, and it came in time for climate change. When it's taken time to get this through, the reason is the very opposite of what Hareide said in the debate. The reason why it has taken time is that this government wanted a more ambitious climate policy than the EU provided. It created difficulties in relation to the EU system and ESA. We have therefore had to take a little step back. Actually, we're saving all the basic principles and everything that's important in this, but we had to take a little step back to deal with what came from ESA. It's unfortunate, but it's the kind of compromise that the world is full of, and that doesn't create great difficulties. The government does not share the EU’s view on the need for free allowances. To introduce free allowances is to make the non-polluting part of the industry pay for the polluter. It's letting people pay the most for the polluting industry. In principle, the allowances should be paid for. Then we have introduced free quotas as an introduction offer, to make the system work. What we're going to do after 2012, it's too early to decide now. We need to see how the European system is going to work in full, and we need to see, in dialogue with the European Union, what it is possible to do. Everything we do must be based on these two basic principles: on the one hand, we want the fastest possible transition to green and environmentally friendly industries. On the other hand, no one wants to shut down Norwegian industry as part of this process. What the number of free allowances is going to be, we have to decide as we approach this. Finally, let me say – because there has been a big issue in the debate – that Celsa in Mo i Rana has made a very positive environmental investment to reduce mercury emissions. There was no way to create a separate system and a separate quota reserve adapted to Celsa, but precisely because Celsa has done such a big, positive environmental effort, we thought it was very right to look at the entire Celsa complex again. We have then found that it is fully possible to calculate the standard emission factor in another way – not only is it possible, but it is a more correct way to calculate it. Just as it should not be so that industry can get through the system in an easier way, it should of course not be so as to do things in a crazy way, so that industry is inhibited. In that case, I feel that we have taken a very positive step in the right direction, as many in Stortinget have wanted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e635	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e638	First, a little comment, because it shows how symbolic this debate is. The party colleague of the Council of State in this room, the representative of Thorkildsen, went out loud and said that after 2012, no climate allowances are allocated free of charge. So it's reassuring to hear that the Council of State doesn't say the same thing. Nevertheless, the uncertainty maintained is a risk factor for business which should not be present. But my question is: when the Council of State boasts that the tight allocation of allowances is good for the environment, what is environmentally friendly when the state sells the allowances in the market – thus maintaining the emission rights that are in total within the EU system? Can the Council of State give a reasoning that suggests that it is more environmentally friendly than to do as the Party of Progress and the Right says, giving the allowances free of charge to industry, so that it can maintain its competitiveness?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e645	I'm getting old and sometimes heavy, but I didn't hear what Ketil Solvik-Olsen said about what None Marte Thorkildsen said. I feel that the government parties are completely united, and I am absolutely sure that No Marte Thorkildsen shares my view of this, that it is simply too early to take a final position on the volume of allowances and free allowances sold after 2012. We have time to evaluate it. I share the opinion that you cannot, of course, make this on 31 December 2011. Business needs time to change and to be able to evaluate things, but we want to initially distribute as few free allowances as possible. Then we need to see what it is possible to do in relation to the EU system, and of course we also need to engage in dialogue with Norwegian industry to see the practical impact of this on the various sectors and sectors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e652	My question was quite different.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e658	If we're going to talk out of the way, there were two questions from the representative, I answered the first one, and then we're going to take the second one afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e663	Like the Council of State, the Right does not want free allowances as a principle, but as long as the EU has free allowances, Norway should also look at the possibility of doing so. The principle of taxing Norwegian jobs out of the country or facilitating strange regulation does not serve the environment. I'm glad that the Council of State itself withdrew Celsa Armering and their 300 million. - large investment. SFT says the company is probably also the world's most environmentally friendly steelworks. But the principle underlying this is what we're doing to launch companies that are expanding, based on new technologies, and wanting to keep jobs in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e670	I share without a doubt the view that it would be totally meaningless if we set up the Norwegian quota system in 2012 so that significant Norwegian industry was out-competitive by more polluting or similar industry in the EU. I don't think anyone wants that. But the distribution of free allowances now is for all practical purposes a brake in the conversion. We want to transform Norwegian business as quickly as possible into a more climate-friendly business, and the fact that the quotas are sold drives that transition. Let me say that I was in India last week with Alf Bjørseth, the founder of the REC. No one around the world could believe that Norway could be a pioneer country for solar cells – just looking out of the window on a regular day in this country! We are because of the ability of Norwegian industrial entrepreneurs to change. And that adaptability will make Norway much more competitive than if we don't premium and drive conversion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e677	I said nothing about the EU's level of ambition in relation to the Government's level of ambition. What I presented was the time process for this climate quota elov. I thought it was amazing that the Council of State was happy to come after this process. It is now a system to last from 2008 to 2012. So we're in February 2009, and we know that this won't be going on until April 2009. I produced a separate climate quota law in 2004, just to get to this. Once again, I have to ask the Council of State a question: Is he happy with the process of time? So it's the time process, not the level of ambition, I'm asking questions about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e684	No, but the two things are very intimate. The reason why it's taken so long was that we tried to get a more ambitious system. We didn't do that, there's no reason to hide. Therefore it has taken more time than desirable. I fully share the idea that we should have done this before, but it was an honest attempt to achieve something that was more environmentally friendly and more ambitious. It met the wall in ESA. It's the kind of reality we live in all the time. This has meant that it has taken longer than desirable. If we're going to continue the line change, I would also say that I reacted very strongly to the Christian People's Party's use – both now and before – of the numbers, where this government is blamed for emissions for 2007. After all, the 2007 emissions figures are closely linked to the political decisions and policies taken in the eight years before that, where the Christian People's Party had the prime minister in seven. It is very difficult to blame this government for decisions that the previous governments have all the responsibility for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e691	Transparency is of great importance for a qualified debate. Transparency is essential for quality assurance of decisions and policy processes. The right to environmental information is fundamental. It is of the utmost importance when we are now going to design an ambitious climate policy, that what is happening can be critically tested. Therefore, it is alarming that the Council of State Kristin Halvorsen has for one year said no to release information related to the trading of allowances, one of the main tools of the Government's climate policy. The Civil Ombudsman has criticised this practice and has asked for it to cease. One is expected to do so. Can the Minister for the Environment promise to take a serious talk with his party leader and finance minister in order to gain an understanding of the importance of transparency related to environmental issues?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e700	Let me first stress that, as it shows, this is not my constitutional responsibility, but it is right that I speak to the Minister of Finance almost on a daily basis. I would like to raise this matter with her, too. As I see it, what the Ministry of Finance wants to keep hidden from the public is the very discussion about the individual purchase of allowances. It's a commercial decision. The price, the chance of success – all this can be affected if it is public. So it doesn't differ from very many other commercial purchases that are closed. At the moment a purchase is made, of course, it should be fully open, with the full opportunity for everyone to have full insight into it and criticise it. So it is the very purchase process that you in the Ministry of Finance thought it was right to keep it closed. But all the other sides of this we want maximum transparency around.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e707	The Council of State says to the question of climate allowances after 2012 that we have to wait, and we have time. It's a gigantic paradox when, 14 months after this law came into force, we're solid in retrospect. It is also the case that the EU has concluded and they are discussing small things in relation to the amount of free quota. It is also the case that today industry is waiting for environmental investment because it is uncertain. We have choices in a few months, and several thousand industrial workers deserve a clear answer from the Minister for the Environment. So the Council of State talked about Alf Bjørseth and the solar industry. The very basis of the PV industry, namely the raw material production of silicon, is what is hardest hit by removing all free quotas. At Elkem Bremander and Elkem Thamshavn, costs will be DKK 400,000 per year. annual work, as has been said. Then my question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State think 400,000 kroner per year? annual works will lead to a change or closure of Norwegian industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e714	These include: Erling Sande was involved in a previous post, because the Norwegian industry's ability to convert is the reason why we have been such a successful industrial nation in recent years. What the PV industry is just an example of is that you don't keep doing the same thing you did before. You were able in Glomfjord, a very traditional, typically one-sided industrial site, to start doing something completely different, very forward-looking, which has made Norway a pioneer in an area you wouldn't think we had any natural assumptions. What we want is to give as many examples as possible. The pressure on Norwegian industry must then be maintained in order to convert in a more climate-friendly direction. The pressure will be reduced if you distribute a lot of free climate allowances. So we'll now go through this thoroughly and look at the degree of free versus purchased allowances in the system after 2012.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e719	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e722	Climate change is, together with international poverty, the greatest challenge of our time. These two are connected. We cannot solve the world's poverty without redistribution and economic growth. But what do we do when economic growth often involves environmental problems and increased emissions of greenhouse gases. 25 million people are fleeing from natural disasters due to climate change. Here we have a job to do in a double sense. In this way, everyone must contribute: individuals, transport, agriculture, and not least the green energy industry. We have a principle in Norway that I believe is quite correct, and that is that the polluter should pay. Of course, then the emission reductions must be covered by the activities that pollute. We are currently dealing with an adjustment to the allowance law, Ot.prp. No 66 for 2006-2007, which was adopted at Stortinget on 19 June 2007, when the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA, had some objections. ESA assumes that the adopted Norwegian allowance system for the allocation of free allowances until 31 December 2001 led to a discrimination between different groups of existing establishments. Norway is asked to make an adjustment, and of course we will meet ESA at that point. Something else would have postponed the matter for a long time to come, and that is not desirable. At the hearings in this case, it was found that the companies wanted a quota reserve reserved for new establishments and extensions, as EU countries would receive such a reserve. This is not met by a large majority in the Committee, since it is believed that new activities will be responsible for the economy in relation to the environmental costs that may arise. Personally, I am a little concerned about this decision, because EU Member States will be able to have such reserves even after 2012. We'll see what Norway lands on, and how we work until 2012. In the context of the discussions on reserve allowances for start-up and extension, Celsa Arming Steel AS in Mo i Rana became a current theme. Celsa has invested in new cleaning and melting technologies to meet the requirements for the clean-up of mercury emissions. There is no doubt that the new clean-up technology will bring significant environmental benefits. Celsa is probably the world's cleanest steelworks. There have been many discussions about the potential of the Celsa company for more free allowances after the extension. However, what is clear is that on 3 April 2008, Celsa’s quota allocation was not seen in connection with the expansion of the holding. Celsa was covered by the allowances system, like other enterprises, for the period 2005-2007 and all the other enterprises were recalculated on a routine basis. Some believe that if Norway had a quota reserve, Celsa could use it. That's probably probably, but then there was a whole new calculation on the entire allowance allocation. It might look like Celsa didn't come out better with the calculation that's now available. This is fine-tuning, and it'll probably apply Celsa's lawyers. This company accepts unsorted scrap iron and in that part of the process it is important that the carbon content of the scrap iron is defined by the appropriate standard factor. It must be lowered, and the Ministry of the Environment has supported Celsa. With that, the company will save millions in the quota period until 2012. Actually, we're trying to find good solutions for Celsa. What is now important is that this allowance law can enter into force before 30 April 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e746	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e749	There is little doubt that this case represents a never-small climate policy façade for the Government, because in this case ESA has given the red-green government a real scratch and established that the climate quota law promoted by the Government in 2007 was contrary to the EEA Agreement. It was just something that the government refused in plenary for the time when the law was being treated. However, the Norwegian infringement of the EEA Agreement has thus been clearly and emphatically fixed by the EFTA Surveillance Authority, ESA. It was very critical when the Government of Ot.prp. No 66 for 2006-2007 were in favour of not awarding free allowances to new activities and extensions during the period 2008-2012. This clearly discriminatory legislative proposal by the Government meant that Norwegian establishments covered by the quota system established after 31 December 2001 and extensions of existing establishments would not be allocated a single free allowance. This was an unwise suggestion by the Government in so many ways. The Progress Party was therefore very critical to the Government’s proposals when this quota law was discussed at Odelstinget in June 2007. But the objections of the Advance Party were then dissipated in cash and arrogant by the red-greens. Even when the Progress Party pointed to the obvious discrimination imposed by the Quota Act and the contradictions that existed in relation to EU legislation in this area, the Progress Party was only met with head-casting of the Red-Greens. But now, in the Progress Party, we can see that ESA has shared several of our party's objections from the time the issue of the climate quota law was dealt with by Odelstinget in June 2007. That some of the views of the Progress Party are now being forced through using ESA is good. However, there is some wonder about the lack of quality that we have seen in the preparation of the 2007 government proposal. That is exactly what I think is very regrettable and also very critical.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e760	I have noticed that my name and what I wrote in a press release this summer have been repeated here. That's why I want to clarify a little bit. I would also like to make it clear that it was before the European Union had put things in place. Let's say it's a clear headline from my side -- I think it all shares -- that if you distribute too many free allowances, it will stop a transformation in the climate-friendly direction of our society. It is in my view that Norway should not add up to a continuation of the allocation of free allowances after 2012. But I see that the EU is adding up to a longer transition period than we have thought, which we considered necessary. We share the EU's view that there is still a need for free allowances in the period after 2012 too. However, it is too early for us to conclude that Norwegian businesses will have to buy all the allowances in the market, as the Government has so far worked for. It must be motivated that the EU has chosen to continue free allowances in certain sectors. The EU clearly wants to maintain its activities and provide them with opportunities for initial investment within the Community. And when I say 'Community borders', it's flagged out, but it's also about taking environmental considerations. Norway should – as we have said, and as the Council of State has also said in previous speeches – assess its adaptations to EU legislation in the future towards 2012. The basic principle will then be that we want the fastest possible conversion of Norwegian industry in a maximum environmentally friendly direction. But we have to make it more competitive in a longer perspective than right now. That's why this conversion is very important. But, of course, we do not want this conversion to take place in such a way that large parts of Norwegian industry are shut down or flagged out. These are my clarifications in this matter, and I think I should also come up with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e771	Several times in this debate we have heard red-green politicians stress that of course they do not want this law to end by flagging out industry and cutting down profitable jobs. And then one goes on to argue why it's important not to allocate free allowances etc. So you can't see that with regard to the goal that was discussed – and I fully agree with the representative Nordtun and the councillor, Solheim, that one should not shut down the Norwegian industry to cut CO2 – there is no agreement between the law that one actually presents, and the signals that one refers to in view of what is going to happen after 2009? Because with the law adopted, where there should not be a single free quota for industry established from now on, it would be the same as saying that all initial investment in industry in Norway should take place outside the country’s borders. This is not supposed to happen in Norway. Although Elkem's carbotermic aluminium production became a reality, they had to have paid CO2 allowances for 70 pst. of the CO2 emissions that would remain even if a 30 pst cut. Ergo: Developing new technologies that cut emissions compared to today’s technology will not be profitable to realise in Norway, because you will get a cost that you would not have received in other countries. Many of the examples that show that CO2 taxes and sulphur taxes were useful have been useful because the industry has been able to carry this together collectively, share the costs and take action where they are most useful. What the government decides is that each enterprise should be penalised individually by – in practice – a levy, by purchasing quotas. Then you cannot take the collective promise that has made the industry competitive collectively. You want to kill one by one company that can't bear this. So, even if you can invest in more environmentally friendly technology, you get a cost on top that other countries don't have. That's why it's so important that the government could now go out and say that in principle we're going to put ourselves on the line that the EU is putting on, and then we're going to work with the EU to get it as strict as possible. However, Norwegian industry should not fear additional costs in relation to what the EU has. I challenge Solheim State Council one more time. I did it in my main post, and I did it in a line change, but he has chosen not to answer. What is environmentally friendly about having a tight quota allocation but instead selling all the allowances not allocated to industry to the European market? Where can it be shown that a single tonne of CO2 is being cut with the government's policy that would not have been cut after the proposal that the Progress Party and the Right have promoted anyway? Another question: what is the incentive for industry to invest in environmentally friendly technology with the Government's proposals, which are not already in the Progress Party and the Right's proposals? With our proposal, industry would have more capital to raise research, development and new investment. With the government's proposals, you wouldn't have that capital available. There are no reasonings from the red-green parties that defend the claims they have, and thus they will actually kill the industry over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e799	It was now claimed by the representative Ketil Solvik-Olsen that these fees that we have imposed in Norway — for example. The CO2 tax and the sulphur tax and other types of taxes, as well as the rights of employees, e.g., who have been warned about from the owner’s side of Norwegian business – are quite fine, because there are burdens that industry could bear. It was also warned against flagging out when Norwegian politicians faced a elections: should we introduce this, or should we not? Then the politicians chose to show and lead and introduce it, and then it turned out later that it gave some opportunities. As I mentioned in my post: Helge Lund was at a conference in Sandefjord and boasted of the Norwegian CO2 tax, which has made the Norwegian oil industry much more environmentally friendly than it would otherwise have been, despite the fact that the oil industry was strongly opposed to this charge when it was introduced in its time. Here I stand with excerpts from the splits of the Progress Party new proposals for action programmes and programmes of principles in my hand. And what can we read there? What we can read there is that the Party of Advancement believes: ‘The day’s debate on climate change focuses on whether human activity contributes to accelerating or changing the natural course of climate change.’ It is a ball of customs – it is probably not a parliamentary term. But that's what it is. What we're actually discussing in the world is what we're going to do with these man-made climate change as most likely, among other things. has led us now to a situation in Australia with crazy forest fires that are difficult to control, and this is something we're going to see more of in the future. And then you also say, ‘It is important not to take hasty decisions on the introduction of costly measures, regulations, etc. There is neither a sufficient scientific basis for, nor a positive practical impact of implementing urgent measures.» So once again, it's constantly coming down to the question of why we should listen to the Progress Party in the debates on Norwegian climate policy at all. I also believe it is a danger for Norwegian industry to lean on the Progress Party in industrial policy. We're going to be in the backyard of competition if we don't provide for changes that take into account that we're going to have a completely different climate regime in the future. Then it's wise to be in front of you instead of being dragged after your hair with your heel in the gravel. This is both about solidarity and about taking responsibility and showing leadership, to ensure that Norwegian jobs become robust, and that Norwegian industry is in the forefront of a development that we know will come. It is most relevant to bring this forward in this debate, sail if I see that Ketil Solvik-Olsen looks a bit tired and stated out where he is sitting. But he'll be okay with that!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e824	The representative is quite right that the word 'customs ball' is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e827	I think there were some constructive contributions at the end of the debate, but it was before the representative Thorkildsen went to the pulpit. So we are discussing the climate quota law, and Thorkildsen is making it sound as if the Progress Party and the Right today are promoting a proposal not to create a climate quota law. On the other hand, we are promoting a proposal to create a climate quota law that results in just as much in the number of tonnes of CO2 emitted as proposed by the Government. The second consequence of our proposal is that Norwegian industry that is world-leading in the environment actually gets better conditions, and that hopefully we can export some of these very environmentally friendly products, which are partly exported to contribute to the environmental industry in other countries, for example. photovoltaic industry, aluminium industry, etc. I just have to stress again that it may well be that the Bondevik government thought it had a good time, and it may well be that the Stoltenberg government believes it has a good time. But I think we have to learn from the time we have this debate. It's one year and two months after the law came into force. We don't have a lot of time. There are projects in line. I'm once again drawing up – I'm sorry I do it so many times, but that's the example I know best – Elkem Thamshavn in the South Trøndelag, who actually estimates to invest half a billion in a system that will allow them to produce more silicon with higher quality with much lower CO2 emissions per. tonnes. However, because the increase in production in tonnes is so high, CO2 emissions will also increase slightly. That investment will not be supported by the Orkla Board and the Elkem Board as long as it is not able to clarify what will happen after 2012. So to this with these charges. There is no sulphur tax in Norway. The industry, on the other hand, pays a deposit to a sulphur fund. This has led to a dramatic fall in sulphur emissions in Norway. The government submitted a proposal for a NOx tax of NOK 15 per person. kilograms, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, kg, In the same proposition, it said black on white that this is not going to work. NOx-tax of 15 kroner per person kg will not work. That fee must amount to 50 kroner per person. kg for it to work. There was black on white in the budget proposal from the Government at that time. Since the Progress Party first stood alone on this point of view, we have now received a majority in favour of introducing a NOx fund instead. With a NOx fund with a cost of four to eleven kr per. kg, i.e. under one fifth of what the government is basing, we now see that we are going to achieve the goals because of progressive and good environmental policies and not old-fashioned socialist tax policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e865	Ketil Solvik-Olsen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e868	This is just an attempt, my last one today, to get the Council of State to tell and reason about why the government's policy of selling CO2 allowances that they don't allocate to business will give environmental benefits. Why is it an environmental benefit to sell the CO2 allowances that the Government has made available, compared to just not selling them? Why would it be an incentive for business to invest in more environmentally friendly technologies to give them more stringent CO2 requirements than they would have in a European market? I hope the Council of State now uses the opportunity to reason on this, and not just come with flakes and hoarseness against other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e884	No more people have asked for the word on the matter. 1 and 2. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e892	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e1070	Paragraphs 7 and 8 provide a proposal from Ketil Solvik-Olsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e1110	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e1119	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e1131	The President has reason to believe that the Progress Party and the Right here will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-12-lower.ana.ud2138e1152	There is no record available. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
