ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e35	Two permit applications are available: from the representative, Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell, on parental leave from 16 November to 20 November from the representative, Mr Dagfinn Højbräten, on leave from 16 November to 20 November for participation in the Governing Board of the GAVI vaccine fund and visits to the vaccine project in Hanoi, Vietnam, On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives, for Akershus County Rannveig Kvifte Andresen and for Rogaland County Kjell Arvid Svendsen, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e67	The representative of Kjell Ingolf Roppstad will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e70	On behalf of the representatives of Laila Davøy, Rigmor Andersen Eide, Knut Arild Hareide and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for a representative on a national fight against poverty in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e75	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e94	Let me begin by welcoming Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen back to policy – at least in the Minister of Finance chair. Many of us feel that Sigbjørn Johnsen has been active even though he has not held a central political position. Let me also add that I believe that the election of Sigbjørn Johnsen is a good choice when one could not choose a finance minister from one of the bourgeois parties. The reason why I believe that the choice of Sigbjørn Johnsen is important and correct is that Sigbjørn Johnsen has for a long time been concerned with the long-term challenges for the Norwegian economy and for the Norwegian society. The right role, of course, is to point out a different direction than what the red-green government stands for, and that's not difficult. We're engaged in a society that's being created and developed from below, we're concerned with diversity and the spread of power, and creating better conditions for the job creators and businesses, so that we can bear our welfare in the future. At the same time, I would also like to extend a hand to the Government and to our new Minister of Finance, because there are some challenges in the Norwegian society that go beyond a parliamentary term, challenges that it is important that the parties at Stortinget can cooperate on. It is about sustainable development for the environment, but it is very much about sustainable development for our economy. We have previously concluded a pension settlement, which is an important building block. At the same time, we all know that it is far from sufficient given the generational solidarity that we, as a conservative party, are engaged in. With the change of state council, I think it's not just a change of person in the Ministry of Finance, but it's literally new tones. Before the election, we heard from the red-green government that it should not be on the money. In almost every political debate, the success was measured in the number of crowns and not in what results were achieved in different areas. After the election, there are new tones. Now we're talking about it can't go on like before, we have to create growth, and we have to get the costs under control. Of course, the background to today's interpellation is the 2010 budget, but the aim is that the debate should go beyond the detailed budgetary discussion and that we should try to raise our eyes. Much attention has long been paid to the challenges we will face after 2020. We know that there will be fewer and fewer people carrying an increasingly heavy backpack because there will be fewer workers, fewer working age, and there will be more pensioners, and not least more of our oldest older people who will need more and better care. There is some background for us to have the pension agreement — trying to get better control of pension expenditure over time. At the same time, there has also been a great deal of attention to the fact that the decade we now go into should be the decade when we were to invest in the future to lay the foundation for a value creation that allows us to bear the major welfare challenges after 2020. The action rule was not intended as a restriction on such investments, it was an action rule to ensure that type of investment. The aim of the rule of action was to phase oil money into the Norwegian economy gradually, and that money was to be used for investment in knowledge, in research, in infrastructure and for tax relief to stimulate growth in the Norwegian economy. With the budget now presented, we are presented that the scope of action that we intended to use for such investments is actually used up to 2018. In other words, the space for action that was to be used to stimulate value creation, so that we could support well-being after 2020, is actually exhausted. Then we'll clear our common fortune. If it's hard to tighten up now, it won't be easier to tighten in later. In the Right's view, there is a need for a concrete plan and a concrete strategy to get back to this so-called 4 pst. path. The background for this is, of course, the need to create the necessary room in the budgets so that we can make the necessary investments in the future. Last night, new figures were presented for the growth of sick leave. There is no doubt that sick leave and disability are out of control and that action needs to be taken. The right considers that we should maintain the world's best health pay system, where social security benefits are maintained, but if that system is to have legitimacy, it is absolutely necessary to take action to reduce our absence. The second is that we have to get more out of the welfare funds. Looking at the growth of public expenditure over the last four years, they have been far greater than the growth of income, and they have been far greater than the growth of welfare. In other words, expenditure is growing faster than the supply to the population. Much more money is spent on, among others. health, while the health cows are growing. I also believe that it is necessary to implement reforms which could lead to greater room for manoeuvre in the budgets. This is about a community reform that should be implemented now. It's about shutting down the county. It is about stimulating more competition on the purchasing side of the country. In the past, the right has proposed introducing so-called neutral VAT into the State. It sounds very technical, but in Sweden it has been found that the introduction of neutral VAT, which means that private operators and the public can compete on equal terms, has led to a sharp decline in the price of services, and billions of money are released that can be used for better welfare for the population. There is a need for more public/private cooperation, and I agree with the Minister of Finance that it is also necessary to reach an agreement on wage developments, which enables us to improve the competitiveness of our industry, at least make sure it does not get worse, as it has become every year for the last four years. Let me also add that the Right believes that it is necessary and right to stimulate the private sector, in other words, to ensure that the growth of public expenditure does not increase so much, while lowering the taxes on employees and on businesses, so that we can stimulate the growth of the economy. These are thoughts that the current Minister of Finance has had before. I had the pleasure of going back to the 1991 balancing debate, where then Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen said the following: ‘But what we see is that it is not in the public sector it fails. It is in the private and private sectors that tens of thousands of jobs have disappeared in recent years, and then it is necessary to stimulate the creation of value in the private sector, and then I get to take it into account that it might sound a little more right-wing in that sense.’ I think it sounds pretty reasonable. This played a major role in defence to reduce taxes on wealth, in order to introduce a stock discount into the wealth tax to help small and medium-sized enterprises. Yes, it was then Minister of Finance Sigbjørn Johnsen who introduced the so-called stock abate, a stock abate that former Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen removed because one had to close holes in the wealth tax because one was to ‘take the rich’. But let me just remind you that when this was introduced, it was because we had to stimulate growth in the private sector, we had to create more room for jobs, more room for small and medium-sized enterprises. It was necessary to stimulate growth in order to support well-being in the future. In my view, we are facing important choices in economic policy. Over the last four years, we have experienced a severe deterioration in the competitiveness of the export industry, a sharp increase in corporate taxes, and a cost explosion in public budgets. I am of the opinion that there are limits to how great a leap can be made from one year to the next, but it is necessary to point out a direction, and that reforms are being carried out, so that we can have a more sustainable economy and not shift new burdens on our children and grandchildren.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e137	I will first be allowed to thank you for the good words at the beginning of Mr Sanner's speech. I'll try to do the best I can, and we'll see what the story says. The main objective of economic policy must be to minimise unemployment, high employment, stable economic development and sustainable development. These are the fundamental reasons of the government's economic policy. The biggest challenge is to be able to deliver what I call the generation contract. It is about us living today having to meet our needs without destroying the ability of future generations to meet their needs. Not only our kids, but also the kids of those who come directly after us, should be able to grow up in a safe and good society.It requires us to manage the resources we have received from our parents and grandparents, in a good and sustainable way. Economic policy must be based on the principle of sustainable development. It demands the management of the resources we have — people, natural resources and the environment. Policies shall facilitate high employment and value creation, not least through reduced exclusion from the labour market. Oil resources must be managed in a long-term perspective. We have to take care of the environment and distribute the goods fairly. Sustainable development therefore calls for policy-making in many areas. The government follows the rule of action for the gradual phasing-in of oil revenues in the Norwegian economy. The rule of action ensures the foreseeable use of oil money, while saving for those who come after us. However, the rule also states that the budget should take account of the economic situation. In rise times, with high activity and pressures in the economy, we're going to use less than the expected return. In times of recession, this is the opposite, as has been the case in 2009 and will be the case in 2010. The financial crisis and the subsequent international economic downturn posed a significant risk that the Norwegian economy too would enter into a deep recession. In that situation, it was right to put fiscal policy significantly over and in a more expansive direction. This has been the subject of a broad political consensus. As late as the revision of the national budget in 2009, it was not exactly moderation in the use of money that marked the proposals of the opposition parties either, but in a way we get to take note of that in parentheses, so far. The outlook for the Norwegian economy in 2010 is better now than previously foreseen, but the uncertainty remains significant. Not least from industry, there are signs that something might be happening — that the effects of the financial crisis are far from over. If we look a little bit into the big world, we see that the trade between large countries is not yet in balance. The main growth impulses from the rest of the world continue to come from the strong economic incentives and from the rebuilding of stocks. We know that these impulses are transitory. Although the situation appears to be better in Norway than in many other countries, growth in the mainland economy is estimated to be lower than the trend growth also in 2010. Economic growth is not expected to be strong enough to prevent unemployment from increasing slightly from this year to next year. In this situation, the government has therefore found it appropriate to add up to a weakly expansive budget for 2010. This contributes to ensuring employment. The various instruments of economic policy must work together to achieve a stable development in the Norwegian economy. Both financial policy and monetary policy have been strongly applied in the last year to help mitigate employment and unemployment in Norway. After setting interest rates to a record low level, the Bank of Norway has now increased interest rates by 1⁄4 percentage points. At the same time, the Bank has announced that the interest rate will continue to rise. Similarly, the budget is set up in order to gradually reduce the stimulus to the economy. Although interest rates are set up in the future, they are still expected to remain significantly lower next year than expected in a normal economic situation. The 2010 budget is justified and in line with the rules of action. At the same time, we are now facing major economic policy challenges, both in the coming years and in the longer term. The use of oil revenues has been raised to a high level. Public expenditure has also risen to a high level. Measured as a share of mainland Norway's GDP, we now estimate government expenditure at around 56.3 p.p. in 2009 and 56,7 pst. in 2010. This is in line with the level in 2003, which was the end of the previous low economic cycle. The active use of fiscal policy in times of crisis requires that we remain in budgetary policy in good times. As the outlook improves and the growth of the economy rises, the use of oil revenues has to be brought back to the 4 pst. path for the real return of the State pension fund — Foreign. We know that this will be demanding, but it is necessary, and it is possible – and we have done so before. During the economic downturn in Norway in the early 1990s, we used a lot of oil revenues. From 1992 to 1996, we managed to halve the use of oil revenues. Average annual growth in real government budget expenditure was about 1⁄2 pst. during this period. The Norwegian economy now looks different than in 1992. However, the experience of the 1990s illustrates that it is possible to return to the 4 pst track within a reasonable time horizon. This will be a priority task, which the Government will focus strongly on in the future. In addition, the production base in mainland Norway needs to be strengthened. The level of costs is a major challenge. Good cooperation with the social partners — and with the political environment — will be necessary in order to bring about a lower cost increase. Income policy is very central in this way. In the longer term, we face further challenges. As the interpellant pointed out, we see demographic developments for the years to come. The ageing of the population will have a major impact on the development of public finances. As has also been said, a lot of the action room for phase-in of oil revenues in the Norwegian economy is now behind us. This means that these revenues cannot finance a particularly large proportion of government expenditure in the future than they do today. Over time, public budgets must balance. I refer here to the 2009 Perspective Communication, where the need for detection – seen in a generational context – was estimated to be 31⁄4 pst. by mainland GDP in 2060. So there are major challenges to the so-called generation balance in the years to come. The latest information we have shows that the long-term financing needs have increased beyond 6 pst. of mainland GDP. This means that, in the longer term, we need to implement measures of this magnitude to limit expenditure or increase revenue in the public sector, or also increase revenue from the private sector. The long-term budgetary projections are based on the assumption that different welfare schemes are maintained at the same coverage and resource use per capita. uses as today. The continued development of public welfare schemes will face further financing challenges in the long term. Pension reform is one of the most important contributions to bringing the economy into a more generational balance sheet. Lifetime adjustment is important. At the same time, we see that the pension reform will give more incentives to increase labour input over the life cycle. My generation, as we get a little bit older, may have to be willing to contribute even more to get this done. If we are to succeed in meeting the challenges of funding the welfare systems, we must succeed with the workline. The fewer that are outcast, the better it is. Participation in the labour market increases welfare and social inclusion for individuals. Pension reform is the result of a good political craft and a broad consensus across party boundaries. It is an equally broad political responsibility to turn around and secure the future financing of the welfare model, and I look forward to good cooperation with the whole of Storting in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e179	There is no doubt that the financial crisis gave us special challenges. There is no need to put the debate from the revised into a parentheses, because the right is upright in relation to the proposals we made at the time. What we pointed out throughout the spring was the imbalance in the Government's proposal, that they were almost unilaterally directed through expenditure on public budgets, and to a lesser extent through tax reductions on businesses. It has also been shown in retrospect that it is more difficult to reverse public expenditure than it would have been, for example. to do something about the employer’s fee. What we now see in the 2010 budget is the continuation of public sector incentives and the removal of measures in the private sector. Several of the measures taken by the Government, including: start depreciation, removed for next year. That's where I don't recognize the finance minister's new tie compared to what he used in 1991. The current Minister of Finance, Sigbjørn Johnsen, strongly argued that we had to do more to stimulate growth in the private sector, and this was argued strongly for, among other things. reductions in taxes on wealth, as a measure aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises. I am pleased that the Minister of Finance also invites to cooperate on the long-term challenges, and I agree that we must comply with the generational contract. I believe that we are not doing that today, precisely because we are shifting new burdens, tax burdens, on those who are coming after us. The figures are in the Minister of Finance's own budget. The next generation will face the choice of either cutting heavily in public welfare or increasing taxes. In other words, they will face much more difficult choices than what we are facing today. That is where I believe that with the space of action we have after all, we must be willing to make some of the choices now. I want to challenge the Minister of Finance on what concrete measures the Government will take. Will we now discuss how to reduce sick leave and the use of disability benefits, by setting stricter requirements for activity and better control? What are we going to do to modernise the public sector and make sure that we get less growth in government administration? How does the current Minister of Finance think about stimulating growth in the private sector, so that we can get a value creation that will enable us to sustain well-being in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e196	I did not mean to put the discussion about the revised national budget in a parentheses. What was my point was that I didn't intend to spend so much time talking about what happened yesterday. I'm very busy looking forward. It was only noted in brackets that the contribution to improving the budgetary balance was not particularly impressive. That was essentially what was my point. I'd rather talk about the future, because that's where the big challenges lie. With regard to the 2010 budget, I believe that it is well adapted to the cyclical situation we are in, but it is clear that there are significant challenges when looking at the path of using oil revenues in the 2010 budget. We are now working on looking at an extension of the IA agreement, which is an important step in terms of what opportunities we have to both reduce sick leave and reduce expenditure growth in one of the heavy transmission systems in popular security. I agree that here we must be willing to look at more measures. Even I really believe that it is possible to get things done by looking at the kind of responsibility that each of us has – the kind of responsibility we have to take care of our health, the kind of responsibility that the employer has to make sure that people get good and safe work environments. I have great faith that restoring a slightly higher level of ownership in terms of caring for themselves and the working environment will have a positive effect, not only on sick leave, but also to take care of our workforce for a longer period of time. We have in this hall a lot of focus on the yield from the oil wealth, but it's actually like 80 pst. of national wealth is human capital. If, through good measures, we are able to increase the rate of return on the population by a few tenths of a percent, then there are huge gains in the long term. I agree that we should have a critical look at what is happening in the public sector, so that the administration and the functioning of it are effective and effective. Then I would also like to say that we all, both the Minister of Finance and everyone in the Chamber here and in the political environment, have a common responsibility not to carry unnecessarily by the burden of expenditure and to fire up under the expectations that are out there. I think we should be so honest with ourselves and say that we live in a country with great opportunities. We live in a country with a high level of well-being and a high level of private consumption. I think it also has to make us humiliate when it comes to using additional expenses to increase our own well-being, which will ultimately be at the expense of the next generation if we can't bear the generation contract through today's policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e213	First, thank you to the interpellant for launching an important discussion on the future of the entire Community sector in Norway. It is important to debate in Stortinget. Let me link some comments partly to what has happened – I will not spend much time on it – and to how we can now look forward to it. This is kind of related. I believe that when you ask about the draft budget for the red-green government is adapted to the action rule and the economic situation for 2010, the answer to that is yes. The rule of action and economic policy in Norway is set up in such a way that because we have had courageous politicians in the past, including during the previous big period, who managed to keep up the use of oil money in the good times, the very good times – we were under the 4 p.m. course. – then we also had the opportunity to give proper gas, to increase money use quite a lot as the most serious economic crisis in many decades hit us last autumn and in winter. There has been a debate throughout Europe on how to deal with the economic crisis. In Norway, the Norwegian Government and the Norwegian authorities chose to meet it in strengthening the measures within what we can call the Norwegian model. To a large extent, we used the public sector as an engine both to contribute to the investment power of business and also to keep people working by doing something about many things that were important to get done in society. Then we are in that situation now that for next year we see that the growth in many of our cooperating countries is still low. It's talking about spending more money. Unemployment in Norway will increase next year. It speaks again to keep giving some gas. So it's absolutely right that in a slightly longer, medium-term and long-term perspective, as the Minister of Finance says, we cannot continue to use those amounts or increase the growth in oil money use in the same way. It's not durable. It leads me to another discussion. If we're worried about how we're going to fund welfare in the future, and how we're going to create a competitive business that's also then, it has to be possible to discuss whether we're going to hire more nurses, more doctors and more teachers in school. We get criticism from the right-hand side of it. The massive increase in public budgets, which the Right is using rhetorically, means employing more people in the public sector. There are mainly people we strictly need in the municipalities. Or are we going to spend our money on tax relief? I just notice that a cost of tax relief is in principle the same as a cost in the public sector. Interpellant Jan Tore Sanner knows that he, along with his party leader, presented in the election campaign a number of tax proposals to be financed in the next majority period. I don't know the sum of them, but I'll make sure it's between 15 and 30 billion dollars somewhere. To assess the four-year period we had before the red-green government won the election in 2005, it was possible to introduce tax reductions of DKK 24 billion. Now you're going to cooperate with the Progress Party here in Stortinget, maybe also in the next period, so it shouldn't be anything worse than that. At least it has to be about there. What kind of contribution is there to the exploitation of a Community sector, a welfare state in the future? There's no better contribution in any way. We all have a very great responsibility now to contribute together, after we have now spent a lot of money in times of crisis, to take responsibility for the fact that the credibility of the rule of action will also be good in the future by taking down the money when the times come up again. It'll be demanding. I will end by saying that I am also concerned about a situation in which the public expenditure on social security, pensions, sick pay, etc., the population's return, increases by SEK 30 billion in one year, from 2009 to 2010. It is not sustainable in the long term. It is also worrying that we now, from one year to another, experience that the real growth of sick leave per year. employed on 7 pst. In the agreement on an inclusive working life with the social partners, the goal was to reduce 20 pst. We have a rather demanding work ahead of us. That's what I'm prepared to do in a discussion about, it's the Labour Party set to be involved in a discussion about, but then I think the fundamental question we still have to ask ourselves is: is it right then, in a situation where we have to take some proper action, spend the money on tax relief and distribute to people who have strictly taken more than enough from before, or are we going to spend the big money to ensure the financing of the future welfare, to children, grandchildren, etc.? I know what my answer is, but we'll get back to that on a later occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e237	Let me first congratulate the Minister of Finance on the job – a kind of generation change for the better, I would say. I look forward to many good debates in the main hall. Then I would also like to thank the representative Jan Tore Sanner for raising this interpellation. I think that's very important. We had the same idea even in the Advancement Party, but I am happy that he traveled it. The government’s 2010 draft government budget represents an additional consumption in addition to the 6.3 pst rule of action. – from 4 pst. – or $44.6 billion. The government has justified this, and also the Minister of Finance today, that the financial crisis is probably not over and that the Norwegian export-oriented industry is facing new major challenges next year. If we accept that analysis, and we all do, parts of Norwegian industry will also experience challenges in 2010. But we've had a financial crisis year in 2009, that is, this year, and then we've had an exceptionally high consumption this year. At that time, we had measures to limit the consequences of the financial crisis. Then the use of money was defended on the basis of the flexibility of the rule of action. In 2010 – a little less financial crisis, we agree on that. But it's even higher than in 2009. At the same time, all the measures that were essential to remedy the effects of the financial crisis — it is not interrelated. The truth is, you spend money because you have rules-driven social benefits that increase and are out of control, and you're not able to get them down. That's the reason. Therefore, the rule of action also becomes so flexible that it is unrecognizable. And in any case, there is nothing to suggest that a high level of oil money that is not targeted at the challenges facing the industry will benefit the industry. It's rather the opposite, which the central bank manager also made clear a few weeks ago, when he chose to set up the interest rate. The current rule of action is therefore not suitable for balancing the state budget, and it gives no indication as to whether the government is pursuing a sustainable fiscal policy, because – as the inter-pellant Sanner was in it – only the total number of dollars is being assessed, not how the money is being used. In a budget that does not distinguish the use of the money, it does not matter whether the money is returned to people through tax relief – as the representative Micaelsen pointed out – whether they are spent on the social budget, whether they are invested in infrastructure, whether they are spent on acquisitions abroad, or even whether the money is burned up in a large fire out in Wessels place! It doesn't matter to the government budget. What matters is how much money is spent. Such budgetary policy is neither sensible, sustainable nor responsible. The Progress Party believes that the time is ripe for a profound reform of how the State budget is designed. A fundamental prerequisite for such a reform is for future budgets to distinguish between consumption money and investment money. This is necessary if we are to have a constructive debate on the state budget's arrangements and consequences for the Norwegian economy. Financial policy should therefore be assessed not only on the basis of the overall framework of the State budget, but primarily on the basis of the distribution of tax receipts between investments and consumption, and how this affects growth and well-being in the country over time. At the same time, budgetary reform must include, in a much deeper way than today, the multiannual impact of budgetary decisions. This will clarify the lifetime costs of investments and allow for the inclusion of costs related to maintenance, upgrades, personnel and not least the possible ring-fence of the investment for other sectors. Long-term budgeting will also make it possible to calculate the potential savings potential of investments. For example, investments in repaired road or rail networks will allow calculations to be made on faster and cheaper supplies of goods for industry and business, savings due to reductions in motor vehicles and reductions in traffic accidents. These are time-consuming savings affecting more sectors than transport alone. Similarly, it will be possible to calculate the dynamic effects of tax reliefs which in year one, including the representative Micaelsen, show themselves as reduced revenues for the country, but which in subsequent years — and that is the whole point — could result in increased revenues due to more labour supply and increased activity in the economy. The Progress Party therefore believes that we need a new rule of action which introduces an upper limit on annual growth in public consumption, limited by the growth of the Norwegian economy. In this way, we will be able to set the stage by industry, and not afford the well-being of the economy to finance over time. In parallel, efforts should be made to increase the growth of the economy, thereby increasing the size of the cake. This should be done by making socially viable investments based on the capacity of Norwegian and foreign suppliers. Profitability has to be assessed in the light of lifetime costs and impact assessments calculated over several years. In other words, long-term budgeting should be introduced. In this way, socio-economic investments can be made which imply that investment becomes expenditure on the acquisition of income. My appeal to the Minister of Finance is as follows: put a dead end to today's rule of action introduces a streamlined budgetary reform that distinguishes between operation and investment differences between money spent in Norway and money spent abroad did not allow operating costs to exceed the growth of the economy over time to make socio-economic investments calculated over several years before the introduction of long-term budgeting
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e286	Today's theme is absolutely central. To the previous speaker I would say that the last thing to do is at least to put the rule of action dead. I think that will be a very serious signal out into the international world in which we actually live. Norway has a very unique situation, and it is a good country to live in. And of course, it's because we realize and make an oil fortune that lies far below the ground, pretty liquid through the Pension Fund. The vast majority of other countries that have experienced that situation do not have a well-developed welfare society with a very broad value creation and a broad nutrient base as a foundation when you get into it and get a huge wealth of value, and then that becomes the only bone you stand on. Our challenge is that we must not go in the direction that many of the other oil-dependent countries are in, completely natural. The Pension Fund also creates challenges by creating a type of tornado sleep. We have boasted that we have been very good at dealing with the financial crisis and all that. But we also know that the Pension Fund creates an illusion, because there are many other countries that have large pension funds, but they're scattered on private hands, they're not collected on the government's hand. The fact that we've collected it on the government's hand and thus create the impression that we have such enormous wealth makes the conversion measures that the Minister of Finance has announced not easier to understand. I look forward with great anticipation to many of the discussions we're going to have about how we're going to be able to further develop our ability to value in combination with a marked oil economy that we have. Then I find it quite interesting to note that everyone, both Prime Minister, Minister of Finance and Minister of Industry, is now quite active in segregated former Minister of Finance, and is discussing completely different challenges than the government budget that Stortinget has still not adopted, actually addresses. It is quite interesting that we have now moved one year forward in time before we have adopted the budget that lies there. During the financial crisis, there was a great deal of agreement that action had to be taken, but it was the scheme, with a strong focus on the public sector, which was the main criticism of the Right and what Mr Sanner had to say about the possibility of reversing the measures. Today, we see how difficult it is to reverse that kind of action when targeting the public sector. The State budget reveals that private sector spending growth is largely tightened up again, and so is huge in the public sector. Nor should we forget that the financial crisis created a fluctuation from the small countries, in currency terms, and that Norway was ‘well off’ an incredibly weak currency. Now the situation is completely different. The stability of the financial market is about to be restored, and the currency may seem to be getting stronger. At least that is the expectations of, among other things, NHO and many market players. We are not going to discuss so much the snow that fell last year – I agree with the Minister of Finance. We're going to look forward. That's why I'm very surprised that he didn't take part of the 1991 quotations, because they're very good. I sincerely hope that he will take it with him as a ballast in his backpack when he will now start to find measures. For what was focused at the time was that the challenge was not in the public sector. The challenge was in the private sector, and I did not hear that challenge mentioned once in the opening speech to the Council of State. It was said that 56 pst. GDP is now public expenditure, and 25 pst. the revenue of the State comes from oil. As I mentioned earlier, it creates quite major long-term challenges. I very much agree with the Council of State that we are totally dependent on our success in the work line, and we are totally dependent on our being able to create a business that has growth and innovation potential. I hardly see one measure in the state budget that is being dealt with in the Storting, which is addressing precisely those issues. So the finance minister is probably going to be busy giving completely different signals and devices in future budgets than the ones we've had in recent years. I wish him luck with that job.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e305	If we look at the near history, the right has spent far more oil money in the last year than the government has actually done. The difference is that the Right has wanted to spend a lot of this on tax relief, which would have increased the differences between people -- that's the one side. At the same time, it would be less targeted than the lower unemployment target, which is the highest target we have. From the SV side, we believe that it has been wise to hold back the use of oil for the first few years of our government. Similarly, it has been right to spend a lot of oil money in a situation where we were at risk of an explosive increase in unemployment. The action packages that we have presented in the last year have slowed down the development of unemployment. We now have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. It is e.g. much lower than in bourgeoisly overthrown Sweden. We're proud of that. At the same time, we are facing a situation where we have to bring down our oil money usage. We all agree on that. It's about solidarity with future generations, who have the same right as us to share in the welfare that we create. We're not going to let big bills go to them. We should agree on that too. Then it's extra important to look at the device of the money that we're actually going to spend, and what we're going to give priority to. We are delighted to go into that discussion more closely, not least when the alternative state budgets come from the different parties. I want to bring forward a perspective that has not yet emerged. It's that the biggest bill that we're at risk of easing to the next generation is a gigantic climate bill -- an environmental bill. So how we use the money in the future to target it – preventing us from getting a warm-up of the world that makes us serve an invincible bill for the next generation – must be one of the most important things we have to discuss in the future. I also hope that the Financial Committee will address this. The Ministry of Finance has, among other things: Some work has been undertaken to look at just how the climate situation is going to affect revenue, for example: Central government pension fund – Rest of the world. It's also a fact that the longer we wait, the more expensive it's going to be. There is also something the chair has documented. Another issue that is important for SV is the distribution and welfare country. In other words, what effect do the measures to be implemented have on the distribution between people in Norway, women and men, those privileged, those marginalised? What really is a value in our society, in Norway, and which has been fought through nine-time work, not least by the trade union movement, is that we have little differences between people – thanks to a welfare state that embraces all, and that ensures solidarity between different people in our country, and that we identify with each other. That we don't depend on running to our family or bet on charity from the privileges of society when we wear out is a great value that we're going to fence around. Nevertheless, we have a major challenge in terms of expenditure, among other things. disability benefit and sick pay. These include: on exclusion from the labour market, it is about school leaving, and it is about sick leave, not least in the health and care sector. If we are to find good solutions that work, we should know what the causes are, and make sure that we actually get the effect of the measures that we put in, without creating greater problems for the individuals at the other end, which the Minister of Finance was also involved in his contribution. The major disease groups that are a challenge here are struggling with muscle and skeletal disorders and mild mental disorders. We have to take care of that. It is also the case that women in the health and care sector experience a self that is partly related to the manning situation in many places. Partly related to extensive use of part-time work. It is also linked to structural problems related to how you control, and whether people actually get to use their professionalism. New Public Management is a key here. Since Tybring-Gjedde asked what is investment and what is consumption, one might ask: what is e.g. investment in school – is it consumption or is it investment in its meaning by the word? Here we are talking about really important measures to prevent people from being excluded. So those that only have primary schools have 30 pst. more likely to be disabled than those with higher education. That means here it's really important to insert a shock.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e324	Like the others, I would also like to thank you most warmly for the interpellation, which can provide the basis for an overall discussion on what is most important to use the country's labour force, natural resources and financial capital for. For the Center Party, it's important to discuss what's most important to get something done about. What do we want with Norway, nationally and internationally? And it's an important debate to get cant above the situation, so that we can streamline our financial resources to make future necessary, unpopular and wise decisions. This and future debates can contribute to a somewhat more common sense of reality – or a more realistic, perhaps a more explicit sense of reality – for the future of us as big parties. The Central Party agrees that there are major challenges to economic policy in the future. We need to avoid even more ‘Dutch sick’, pointed out by irresponsible pay and income levels in Norway, cf. competition countries, e.g. through pension/anticipation benefits, for those of us who have good income. And I want to underline what the Minister of Finance said about income policy, it's very demanding – it's very demanding in relation to the private sector. It is clear that the loss of the extraordinary employer’s fee for employers who paid more than 1 million. kr to its employees, helping to increase revenue in the private sector. And the fact that we have about 30 trade unions in hospitals contributes to the fact that the employer of hospitals has a very difficult situation, and it contributes to a galloping cost increase. The representative, Sanner, was also concerned with the need for the rationalisation of the municipal sector. With the word of the Central Party, it means everyday rationalisation, a commitment to the Quality Municipality project, and ensuring that we receive a continuous improvement of the resources used in the municipal sector. I want to emphasize that 85 pst. expenditure by the local government sector is expenditure related to the large population municipalities. That's where it's most to pick up. What is therefore the challenge is to mitigate this ‘Dutch-disease’ policy, while at the same time we need to concentrate on increasing investment appropriations and reducing distance costs. New technology, e.g. fibre up to all households, will reduce distance costs and be an excellent investment in terms of what is needed to reduce a number of the costs we now face. We need to invest more in public incentives to shift business from oil and gas to green industry, and we need to systematically strengthen education – theoretical and practical – for all our young people. There must be more investment here, not less. Some areas need to be subdued – ‘Dutch sick’ – and more needs to be invested in other areas. This requires a proper discussion. But then concretely to the construction of the state budget. It is important to discuss and discuss the accounting principles of the state budget, because in my opinion it is a systemic error in relation to the challenges we face. In concrete terms, the cash principle applies in the State budget for investments. This means that, for example: Lying station, where 1.2 billion DKK is invested over three years, is charged over the three years, while the value of the investment is over 30 years. It takes a great deal of the room for action, so much so that there is little room for action for other necessary investments, on which there is a great deal of excitement to bet. At the same time, for welfare improvements, only the cost of the year is included in the budget. Usually it's like, almost, that it's not the cost of the year, it's half a year -- or it's maybe two months' cost -- and then the entire cost of the year comes on next year's budget, just one year's cost, not the entire cost. The system error is such that welfare improvements for those with strong interests in power in the system win, while investment loses systematically. It's an important discussion, which we have to go into. The budgetary accounting policies must therefore be discussed, and we must ensure this, because in the next five to ten years, the challenges are enormous in the time after the oil epoch. The right answer to this, taking state activities out of the state budget, is no solution. What one did by establishing Entra was positive in relation to the rule of action, but it did not change the realities. Now the proposal is to take out the Road Administration and the Railway Agency, so it is not part of the action rule. But it's just a postponement, a bypass, of the necessary thorough discussion that we have to have: what are we going to have more of -- investments, conversions, education? What should we have less of – well-being for those who already have a lot?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e345	First, I would like to thank Mr Sanner for an important interpellation. Norway is facing major state financial challenges in the time to come, and it is important that this is highlighted in its full scope in the Biggest discussions. The government provided a government budget, where a user spends almost 45 billion more on oil than the policy of action. And we have to recognize that the vast majority of the other games are at almost the same level. But the question is, what do we spend our money on, and how do we align our policies in the future? As the interpellant has pointed out, it is not just about reducing public expenditure growth in the long term, but it is also about strengthening the long-term growth potential of the economy to ensure our future well-being. I want to take the public expenditure growth first. The Christian People's Party believes that it's too late to come back to the 4 pst track until 2018. We have a responsibility not to shift the bill to tomorrow's taxpayers; we have a responsibility to manage the great oil wealth in a way that benefits today's young people and future generations. The generation perspective must not be forgotten. This means that we have to take some tough priorities ahead, and the Christian People's Party is ready for that. We will take our stewardship seriously. We also need to ensure that the framework for long-term growth and innovation is improved. The Christian People's Party believes that the government here has an hour's sleep. We need a completely different focus on knowledge, taxation and inclusion in the world of work to facilitate the value we need to ensure future well-being. First of all, knowledge. The North's labour effort is above 70 pst. of Norway’s national wealth. It is then obvious that the level of knowledge of the individual is entirely decisive. The Christian People's Party will strengthen the knowledge of the school, increase the focus towards drop-out. It is also necessary to increase the grant rights, so that we reach the average OECD level by 2015, and we need to have more grant options. The tax FUNN scheme and user-controlled research must be strengthened. Secondly, we need a better tax regime, especially for family businesses. Three-quarters of all Norwegian businesses are family eights, and the Christian People's Party will remove the inheritance fee for generation change in family farms if the company is driven on for at least ten years. This is a good business policy, while at the same time it is a good district policy. In addition, the Christian People's Party will remove the property tax on working capital. Third, the Christian People's Party will work for a more inclusive working life. People who want to work need to be helped into work. We are totally dependent on finding schemes that ensure that more people can stand longer in work, that fewer people are being knocked out of work, and that even more people are coming back to work. Therefore, it is also disappointing for me to see that the part of those with reduced functionality in the action area goes down. It's a huge cost to society, but not least it's a huge cost to the individuals who could be given a chance to be lifted into work. Finally, a challenge: the world is facing some major environmental challenges, especially when it comes to climate change. The climate challenge is in many ways the greatest innovation project of the time. The countries that come up with the new technology will have an economic leadership globally. As The New York Times' journalist and author Thomas L. Friedman has said, the new growth industry is ET, renewable energy technology. The Christian People's Party believes that good initiatives and framework conditions for climate change adaptation that work with business and not against it will give industry a competitive advantage. With a greater focus on research and development of renewable energy, the introduction of the Green Certificate System for renewable energy production and the distortion of the tax system in a much more green direction, we will facilitate the future business life and the future basis for well-being — a resilient welfare society that also aims at future generations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e373	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for addressing this very important topic. There is no doubt that our welfare state is facing significant challenges in the coming years and that these challenges will have a major impact on how we dispose of the public finances. I fully agree with the interpellant that there is a need to reduce the growth of public expenditure, stimulate the growth of the economy and rethink in relation to basic societal tasks. The Minister of Finance has been very clear that we need to tighten the belt in relation to public expenditure. The Left agrees, but we are a little concerned about which public expenditure is to be tightened up. For the Left, there were particularly two major challenges we faced in dealing with the perspective message in ours. These challenges remain, to a very high degree, real. One challenge is our well-being, the composition of the population, the demographic changes — the very large proportion of older people, the vast majority of those outside the labour market, with high demands for welfare benefits. The other is about the climate challenges. Common to these challenges, and one of the main responses to what the interpellant initially raised in the debate, is that it is about investing in knowledge. Our position throughout the previous period has been to bet on knowledge. Research and innovation are good for our society, and not least it has been important in times of decline. It is knowledge we must live on in the future, and it is knowledge that will help to solve some of the major challenges we face in the field of climate and welfare, not least in terms of creating new jobs. The left has been clear that we need to think new and be willing to organise the public sector differently. Among other things, municipalities need to become more robust in order to solve welfare problems. We have a large potential to solve more tasks locally, not least in the care of the elderly and health of the elderly. The road to a more profitable business is important, and it is, among other things, important. on new technologies. Public provision must then be made for business to evolve in such a direction. These include: on good framework conditions, on tax incentives and on effective solutions. A commitment to R & D and innovation in business is the best thing we can do to secure future revenues to finance our well-being. The second major challenge facing us is the climate challenge. The left wants a transition to a greener economic policy, a greener tax regime, and we want to praise the inputs in such a way that we get a greener society in every way. As we see it, we are totally dependent on sending the right price signals for the environment and climate in the future. One is that CO2 emissions must cost so much that they force new technologies and new greener solutions. The second concerns renewable energy that needs to be priced in such a way that it is the renewable option chosen, not the opposite. Hopefully, the Copenhagen Summit will contribute to the beginning of a global solution in this regard. Initially, I said that the Left is very concerned about the public expenditure to be tightened up in times of urgency. The reason for this is simple: despite record growth in public budgets in the last period, research, innovation and higher education have been ‘the loser’ in almost every budget, and the ‘sleep cut’ in this field seems to always mark the legacy of the red-green government. If high welfare, which requires high incomes, and a green economy is to be combined, we must have a business policy that is capable of providing us with a green business that is also profitable. It requires new technology and knowledge that we do not possess per. today. We must also be willing to think again about the organisation of the welfare society. The common denominator that connects these large perspectives acts in the opinion of the Left, among other things. to focus heavily on research and knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e398	Work until all are jobs. 1 for us in the Working Party. It's always been, and it should always be. For this reason, we have put in place major measures both this year and for the next year, precisely to ensure that we have all and the least possible unemployment. We've been in the worst financial crisis since the 1930s. The forecasts for the next year suggest that the number of unemployed will continue to increase. The government aims to bring Norway out of the financial crisis with the least unemployment in Europe. This can be achieved because we have been careful with the money in good times and then have the ability to give more gas in bad times. The financial crisis has affected many. Although there are many who have received lower interest rates, who still have their regular job and who have thus been better off, there are also very many who have been the victims of the crisis – and who are still in a state of crisis. Whole communities and individuals have our frames. This winter we could, among other things, hear about Raufoss, we could hear about Høyanger. Now it's the yard industry that has major challenges. Many coastal jobs are at risk. It's serious, and we know that some of the worst things that can happen to a human being, it's actually losing their work. I believe that the most important thing we can do in times of crisis is to put action in the public sector and strengthen the tools. This was now done in the action package for work, in the revised and in the 2010 budget. This is how we can use the financial crisis to create tomorrow's jobs. Thus, in the 2010 budget, we have increased the scope of Innovation Norway again, up to DKK 1.5 billion, so that we can facilitate a future-oriented and innovative working life. Then we can realize several good ideas, we can create forward-looking jobs and strengthen value creation in Norwegian business. The funding framework for Innovation Norway is increasing, we are still going to have a lot of investment in tourism, we are going to bet on SIVA, we have put in place a guarantee scheme for purchasing power, we are still investing a lot in research and environmental technology – and on TaxFUNN. The increases we have made in the package of measures should be continued. Such bets are targeted bets that counteract unemployment and create future jobs. The right has proposed reducing the employer’s fee by 2.5 pst. in 2009 and 2010. In total, it would cost $17.5 billion. It's a huge proceeds, but I think it will have a limited impact on the companies, because it has to be shared on all small and large companies in Norway, excluding those companies in North Norway that have zero fees. An average small enterprise with less than five added would then receive a tax return of NOK 26 000. There is not much to secure the workspaces for. Chief Economist and Right-Member Harald Magnus Andreassen was very clear in his speech; he said this was a bad suggestion. The scope of the competitive sector is central to the economic policy of the Government. The use of oil revenue has risen to a very high level. As the outlook improves and growth in the Norwegian economy rises, the budget needs to be brought back to the 4 pst track. It can be a challenge. Everyone has to contribute here. But at least one thing is certain: if the Right is to implement tax credits in many billions and at the same time reduce the budget and perhaps get other good wishes fulfilled, the budget will not go into a pile – not to mention their possible cooperation with the Progress Party. In the debate on the throne, Erna Solberg stated that the Right would both lead a sensible economic policy and cooperate with all parties on a civil basis. Then it's also included the Progress Party – and the consequences of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e417	I was very pleased with the approach that the Minister of Finance had to this debate. There is a point of view that we in SV share, namely that we must take care to meet our needs today in such a way that it does not destroy the opportunities for generations that come after us to meet their needs. It's all the way to the core of what's our major challenge in the future. Then we have to take care of the most important resource we have, people, and process it to experience less sickness and more competence and mastering, so that you can participate in creating values. The value creation we're going to do in the future, and climate policy, must be two sides of the same coin. This is absolutely necessary, because it is not possible to continue producing in ways that destroy the generational contract and the possibilities for the generations that come after us. There I also agree with what my co-representative of the Christian People's Party said that the societies that are unable to cope with this green transition will also lose competitively. So here we have a big challenge. Consumption and climate policy must also be two sides of the same coin. That's why it's so important how we distribute resources, so that consumption doesn't go beyond the sustainability constraints that we have. When we're going to process the most important resource we have, I always think of an old Chinese saying that I learned once many years ago, and that says that whoever fills his head and not his pockets, can never be robbed. I think that applies both to the country and to society, and that applies to the individual. If we don't get so busy putting as much money into our own pockets here and now, but using our resources to teach us, to give as much competence as possible, that's the very best thing we can do. Therefore, it is important not to mention education as consumption. It is important not to mention all health services as pure consumption. It's actually taking care of the most important resource that the labour market has, people. It's important. So it's a question: do we create more when the differences increase? It is the mantra of the right in politics that you create more then. It doesn't have any faith in SV. On the contrary, we think we're going to be better at creating if we divide better. The distribution committee, which the Government put down, and which gave its position in ours, shows that important investments, for example: In kindergarten and school, more people will succeed in life and master it in a demanding working life. The generation contract is also about that we have to review the split layer we have, namely that we have to deliver according to our ability and get as needed. There are major debates on how to look at it in the future in view of the major challenges we face both in terms of climate and distribution. We also need to develop so that we stand much less on the climate-depleting oil and gas bones – we need to get a lot of green legs to stand on, bones that are sustainable in view of the generational contract that we have. If we are to succeed in this and succeed in having a good welfare state, we must ‘succeed in the line of work’, as the Minister of Finance said. Yeah, I totally agree with that. There's a lot of aspects of it that people have been dealing with. School policy is part of it, and also the Nav reform, of course. But the IA agreement is probably the most urgent now, because we see that sick leave is increasing, and disability is also increasing. Then I very much agree with my associate, Ms. Inga Marte Thorkildsen, that we now have to start looking at what creates exclusions and disease. For several years, sick leave in some industries has increased strongly, and many of these occupations are women’s – they are in the clean-up, hotel and restaurant industries and in the public sector. The ladies get sick. Why are they? We have to check that. How do they get sick? Well, it's about muscle and skeletal disorders and mild mental disorders. That is why I challenge the Minister of Finance in the job ahead with a new IA agreement to focus on both these sectors and these diagnosis, so that we can address the problem where it arises, and not put in – as I fear it might be suggested in the debate – action against those who have already fallen ill. Then the differences increase, and there's SV disagree.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e436	The representative Sanner from the Right says in his interpellation that it is necessary to reduce the growth of the economy, increase growth capacity and open up new solutions, so that we can get more out of the welfare crowns. He is asking for the government's strategy and suggestions to get this done. The right asked the same question in the throne debate earlier in the fall and criticized the Government for being visionless and little innovative. The answer to the Right itself came into that debate was anything but visionary and innovative, namely the privatisation of the public sector, tax relief and a massive investment in OPS for the development of roads and railways. Although the Right now wants to look forward, I remember these times last year when we had a cross-political understanding of the financial crisis and its seriousness in relation to the collapse of financial markets, the failure of tasks especially in the construction industry and the risk of high unemployment. In the dramatic situation we were in then, and have been in the last year, it has been right to transform fiscal policy vigorously into an expansive direction. There was a significant risk that the Norwegian economy too would enter into a serious economic downturn. It also meant the opposition and the Right then. The Christmas speech from the opposition last year was clear in relation to the state budget presented – and later on with the package of measures presented in January: the measures taken by the Government were too small and too late! In the review of the 2009 budget last autumn, the Right Alternative Proposal was based on the same structural oil-corrected budget deficit as the Government’s proposal. With regard to the January package of measures this year, the party wanted to increase the framework by approximately DKK 5 billion compared to the Government's proposals. And in the revised 2009 national budget – i.e. less than six months ago – the Right proposed increasing the use of oil revenues by a further SEK 6.2 billion. Now the Right seems to be worried about the oil money usage. It is important to maintain the common sense of crisis in the future. The financial crisis has not been lifted! Although the situation appears to be better in Norway than it is in many other countries, and the outlook for the Norwegian economy in 2010 looks better than that previously foreseen, the uncertainty is high. Unemployment is expected to increase next year, and low growth and increasing unemployment are the reasons why the Government has committed to a weakly expansive budget for 2010. The rules of action shall ensure the proper use of oil revenues. That doesn't mean we're going to use exactly 4 pst every year. On the contrary, since the rule of action was made, it has been said that oil revenues will be used to balance the fluctuations in the economy. That's what the government has done in recent years and proposes to do for next year too. The use of oil revenues has now risen to a very high level. The government has therefore notified that, for reasons such as: the competitive sector, the development of our welfare services and the need for sustainable development must be brought back to the 4 p.m. path as the outlook improves and the growth of the Norwegian economy takes place. In its draft budget, the government has made several good proposals to stimulate growth in the economy and to get more well-being out of every penny next year. The government has given priority to job no. 1, that's to keep people at work. Enhancing the development of roads and railways, increasing transfers to municipalities, the interest-rate compensation scheme for school buildings and swimming pools, investment grants for several new nursing homes and nursing homes – to mention something – should help keep people in work, but of course also to renew and strengthen welfare services for residents outside the municipalities. The Government considers that public responsibility and role in the key welfare tasks such as health, care and education should not be reduced. The 2010 draft budget is actively followed up by proposals for quality improvement and the increase in the scope of broad Community solutions – good proposals that the Right is welcome to support. In the national transport plan adopted in June of this year, the right has been involved in a massive effort on OPS projects on road and rail. The first OPS projects were launched by the Stoltenberg I Government in 2001. These projects have now been evaluated to see whether the effect of OPS results in faster, more predictable and continuous road development. The result of the evaluation was that implementation is faster, but it is like building on payment; it is not cheaper. Now, when the Right bets massively on this, they get the roads now, but they leave the bill to our children. The government's answer is project finance. The Oslo-Ski railway project is prioritised in its own budget line to ensure progress and predictable funding for the entire project. I invite the Right to think anew in relation to their OPS solutions and to support the Government in this and other good proposals contained in the budget, for the sake of well-being also for our children.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e459	As others have said, the interpellant has raised an important debate, but I am somewhat surprised that the involvement and participation of the opposition are surprisingly limited. It would have been nice if more people could participate in the debate. I'm not going to contribute to such a great extension of the debate, I think, but that's something I want to point out. The representative Tybring-Gjedde pointed out that some of the things that are most worrying are the growth of the regular expenses. We have done something about perhaps the heaviest and most important through the pension reform, but there are other things — such as exclusion from the labour market, disability and health pay — that are equally worrying and that are much more demanding to be tackled. There's a lot that needs to be done with that. But what I miss on the part of the Progress Party is a recognition of the challenges of regular expenditure – because that is what the Progress Party will implement, or introduce, so to speak, all areas of well-being. The money must follow the patient. Older people should be entitled to sick leave — and the state should pay in the same way as you do in the case of sick leave, you use it as an argument. Does not the Progress Party see that there will be another powerful driver for an increase in expenditure that we do not want to control? So I hope that the Progress Party will not only think about the need for budgetary reform, but perhaps also a political programme reform that will be reflected in the impact of all the good proposals and the impact they will have on the expenditure side of the State budget. Otherwise it is so interesting that the Progress Party is now expressing concern about the use of oil money. Now they have never accepted the wisdom of the rule of action. I don't think they've quite understood it, because in the time we've got behind us, the party has had no worries about the use of oil money. Once we've had high speed, they've stepped on the gas. Now, when we have to hold the foot of the accelerator, they're going to drop out a little bit. It's kind of the opposite of what's the point of the rule of action. We're going to hold back in good times, as the Government did in the period behind us in relation to the 4pst rule, and we're going to be able to use more in periods when necessary, as the Bondevik II government did in its period, and as we do now in the crisis that is not over. So I hope that the Progress Party also takes on what someone has been about here, that we all have a common responsibility not to create expectations out there that we are unable to meet, and that there may not be any basis for fulfilling. It also applies to how we describe the reality that's out there. We might have to be a little bit more cautious about tabling problems up to major disasters, being a little bit more precise in the descriptions and a little bit more careful about how fast and how we can solve them. It concerns all of us, but I have to say that it is a particular challenge for the members of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e470	Let me start by thanking you for your commitment. I am particularly pleased that so many in the government parties are also taking part in this debate. I noticed with interest more recordings from Lundtigen, which I look forward to that we can debate further. A few comments on some of the questions that came up. I agree with Christian Tybring-Gjedde that it is important – I would say – to supplement today's rule of action by ensuring that the underlying expenditure growth in the public sector is lower than the growth of the total economy. It has always been the basis of civil governments, and we have also been able to implement it in the previous period. I fundamentally disagree with the representative Torgeir Micaelsen when he says that the opposition will spend the money on tax bills. It is not that the tax money is initially the property of politicians. It is value creation that we believe should be left to those who create the values, to the employees, to the enterprises – in order to contribute to new value creation. Then I notice that several people say that the 2010 budget is in line with the rule of action. I think I will limit myself to saying that we must base the rule of action on the future budgets. It is a very generous interpretation to say that it is in line with the rule of action. I think we've been in for a couple of years because of the financial crisis. It can be justified that you make the knit very long. But if we are to have credibility in relation to the rule of action, we must also be able to legitimise that we have a policy that allows us to come back faster than in 2018, as the Christian People's Party also stresses. So I want to challenge the Minister of Finance on two questions. Point 1: When does the Government have the ambition that we should come back to the 4 pst limit? Point 2: When are the measures coming? I would believe – I don’t think I’m going to be very wrong – that you can get higher revenues already in the revised budget related to greater dividends from state companies, etc. But we cannot rely on a return to the rule of action just by increasing revenue, taking action, reforms that will allow us to get the increase in expenditure under control. Is it the case that we have to wait until the 2011 budget, or will the Government take action earlier? I think it is important that we stick to the rule of action. It's about generational solidarity, today's and tomorrow's pensioners can be sure of getting a pension, and we don't push an increased tax bill on our children and grandchildren. However, the rule of action is also important because it must provide us with a space for action to make the necessary investment in knowledge, in infrastructure and in better conditions for job creators for small and medium-sized enterprises. That's the room for action that's gone a long way. I think we need a strategy to recreate that space of action, so that we can get a creation of value that allows us to bear the welfare of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e483	The main job will start with the 2011 budget. The 2010 budget is – as I have also said earlier today – adapted to the developments we are now seeing in the economy. The financial crisis is not over – and it is important! I come now from a meeting in Brussels, I was there two days ago. There one discussed how to get out of the actions that one has taken in the context of the financial crisis in a balanced and good way. It's very important that it doesn't become too quick to retreat, or that countries become too brutal in this regard, because then we create new problems. So this has to happen over time, and we'll come back to this in full moon. So what we're actually doing as politicians is managing community values on behalf of today's generations, but I'd say most on behalf of future generations. Taking that view into account is important for fiscal and economic policy in the future. We need to rebuild strength into mainland Norway. That's one of our main tasks. The cost growth we see, and competitiveness, are the main challenges in this way. If we look at the trend in labour costs in Norway in recent years, it's going in the wrong direction. We are far beyond the development of our trading partners, and we have had a steady increase since 1996. Therefore, the interaction between fiscal policy, monetary policy and income policy becomes very important in the future. It must work – these areas must not be counterproductive, and the budget is crucial in this way. What we do in budgetary policy must build up under the other two legs of economic policy. What has been lying like a little undertone during the discussion is the attitude that I offer more than you. It shows a kind of belief that political success can be measured in this way – that is, through the size of the appropriations. We must focus much more strongly on the impact of policy on the areas in which we want policy to work. But it might be like this in the short term. But, as I've said before, the sentence first comes from our kids. I'll try to arrange at least what I'm going to do in the future, so that they nod to me when they ask: what did you do? So I can answer that I did what I thought was right in a longer perspective. If they end up saying thank you, it's basically the verdict that we're doing the right thing today, when we're confronted with the kids' gratitude tomorrow. Then it is that a politician's previous statements are often his worst enemy. I agree with my previous statements, whether they came in 1991 or 1995. The 1992 tax reform is one of the most important structural reforms we have had in the Norwegian economy. It provided a broader tax base and lower rates, stimulated fair and prudent investments and gave equal value to the interest deduction for all. I really think, as a conclusion to the debate, that we can send a kind thought to the rapporteur, Thor-Eirik Guldbrandsen, shadow rapporteur, Johan C. Løken, and the cooperation between the Right and the Workers' Party in this way. And then we'll see a little bit of that they would like to have discounts in different contexts later, for example. the share discount in the autumn... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e510	We receive regular news reports about elderly people who do not have a sick home, about addicts who do not have a place to live, about serious mental illness who cannot be discharged from the hospital because they do not have a housing offer in the municipality from which they come. Today, the threshold for getting a sick home is very high. By 2030, there will be a need for 60,000 new nursing homes and homes. It is an objective that individuals should be able to live in their own homes for as long as possible. It promotes both independence and independence. Many older ones want this for themselves as long as they are confident that they will receive the help they need when the need arises. As a follow-up to the Senior Care Action Plan from the late 1990s, a new investment grant was launched again in 2008. This grant shall be used to build new or to clean up old and worn nursing homes and nursing homes. They shall meet the housing needs of all those who need health and care services 24 hours a day, irrespective of diagnosis and age. There's a huge need for these places. There are no specific leads, as I have been given, for how the distribution between nursing homes and nursing homes should be, which in itself is a big discussion. Furthermore, there are no indications as to the proportion of new sites and what can be done to refurbish existing sites. Theoretically, grants may be granted only for refurbishment and thus not for new sites. The Government has so proposed that investment grants should be granted to 12 000 nursing homes and nursing homes in the period 2008-2015. The population in all counties has examined the need for places in the years up to 2015. They believe that there is a need for 20,000 places, including 12,000 sick homes and 8,000 nursing homes. By age, the villagers distribute the 20,000 places by 14,000 to people over 67 years of age and 6,000 to those under 67 years of age. Then there's also a point that out of the 6,000 who go to them under the age of 67, there's a total of 3,000 for people with mental disorders. Already in the 2006 government care report, there was a need for about one. 2 700 housing for mentally ill persons in addition to the mental health escalation plan. In its 2007 report, the National Health Inspectorate, the Service Offer to Persons with Mental Disorders, wrote that it is: ‘large unsolved problems arising from grey zones and unexplained responsibilities between administrative levels. In institutions for mental health protection, there is a greater number of ready-to-print patients with high service needs, who local authorities are unable to receive’. The same report points out that there is evidence that a larger number of people with some serious mental disorders are homeless. Thus, they cannot avail themselves of the offer they receive or are not given the services they need or require because they do not have housing at all. Now the escalation plan for mental health is complete, but the government has not presented a plan for further action, as the Christian People's Party and several other parties have requested. We don't know when to get the 3 000 homes and their personnel that are needed. This is particularly alarming when we look at the gap between the Government's target of 12,000 sick homes and nursing homes and the real needs assessment of the population of 20,000. After the election, I asked the previous Minister of Health and Care to present opinions in the election campaign on the rate of expansion in the future and the number of dwellings. In the first answer, it was stated that in Soria Moria II ‘we have made it clear that we will provide grants to 12,000 sick homes and happy day care places by the end of 2015 in order to ensure sufficient capacity’, and in the last response it was said that the Government will ‘extend the framework further if the entrance to the application from the municipalities so requires’. At the same time, just a few days ago, in answer to budgetary questions about the investment grant for hospital and nursing homes, it is now stated that the overall framework of 12000 care places should not be exceeded: «Based on the basis of regular breakdowns, the counties shall assess the municipalities and projects to be prioritised each year. An indicative allocation of 12 000 care places has been developed for the period 2008–2015.» [[both nursing homes and nursing homes]] In addition, it says: ‘This breakdown shall be taken into account in the prioritisation.’;» That's what it says. «In allocating the annual framework, account shall be taken of the fact that the total framework of 12000 care stations shall not be exceeded.» These two answers conflict with each other, and there is a short time between each answer. The last answer also runs counter to clear promises made by both the Prime Minister and the Minister of Health in the election campaign that if needed for more places, the ceiling for number of places should be extended. I meet with the Council of State's clarification here. In the autumn of 2007, the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government Parties concluded an agreement to strengthen care for the elderly. The agreement provides for further dimensioning of the service provision, where the need for the construction of nursing homes and nursing homes is to be assessed annually in the context of each year's government budget. The assessments shall include, inter alia: based on the amount of applications for investment grants to the Husbanken. In 2008, the budget provided grants for the construction of 1000 nursing homes and nursing homes. However, applications for construction of more than 5000 were submitted to the Husbanken in 2008. In 2009, the Government increased the rate of expansion from 1 000 posts, which had been adopted in the budget, to 2 500, an increase of 1500 places as a result of the package of measures in the context of the financial crisis. This is far from enough. Many elderly people in need of hospitalization have to wait a very long time. The threshold has become high for a sick home. There are no statistics on the number of people waiting in hospital or in nursing homes. In my view, the threshold for sick leave must be sound and waiting lists should be kept of the number of sick leave approved, so that the dimensioning is actually correct. No later than today, we read in several newspapers about the report entitled "The Caring Picture of the Future" as the Center for Caring Research – South has created it for the Ministry of Health and Welfare. It says 24 pst. the municipalities are planning to cut the number of sick homes by 2015. Just 13 pst. by municipalities, plans to significantly increase the number of nursing homes. Furthermore, the trend seems to be that municipalities would rather build care homes than health homes. Attention is paid to the fact that nursing homes are significantly cheaper than nursing homes, not least in operating costs. We also know today that the professional content of a nursing home is much worse. One of the researchers behind the report says that ‘many will prefer, and need, hospitalization when they become very fragile’. He goes on to say, ‘We’re afraid that the need for accommodation is underestimated and that this means that the threshold for getting a sick home place is too high.’ My question is: will the Council of State increase the overall framework, as it was said in the election campaign and in written response from the previous Minister of Health, so that the need for nursing homes and nursing homes is met?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e569	I am pleased that the representative Davøy addresses this important question. We have for a long time been concerned with building up and ensuring a good and dignified care for everyone. This gives us a good opportunity to debate an area that has been a long-standing field for the government parties. We've shown we can deliver. With an action plan for the care of the elderly, presented to the Stortinget in 1997, the nursing homes in Norway were renewed and modernised. At the time, grants were granted for the construction and modernisation of approximately 19 000 nursing homes and around 20 000 nursing homes, which thus satisfied the requirements for quality, accessibility, working environment and fire regulations. Current investment grants to nursing homes and nursing homes continue this development. The government will ensure full hospital coverage by 2015 by providing it to all those in need of hospital or nursing home. During the previous ageing period, the Government set the goal of putting in place 10,000 new annual works from the level in 2004 to the end of 2009. We've overfilled this goal. The current investment grant was launched in spring 2008. The grant shall stimulate municipalities to renew and increase the provision of health care facilities and housing for people in need of health and social services, regardless of age, diagnosis or disability. The Government’s objective is to provide commitments to build or modernise 12 000 new lucky day care facilities in the period 2008-2015. This is also in line with the agreement as concluded between the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left. In 2007, the county councillors reported for the first time on the need for new nursing homes and nursing homes for community services. The need for replacement and modernisation was also reported. The survey showed that there was a need for around 20 000 new care places by 2015. These assessments were used when we established the commitment target for 12 000 care sites by the end of 2015, and if the access to the application and the needs of the municipalities so require, we will consider extending the framework of the scheme. For the time being, the amount of the application to the Husbanken shows that the phase-in is in line with the needs of the municipalities. The Government has taken the view that commitments can be made to 6 000 care facilities in 2008, 2009 and 2010. By mid-October, applications had been made for around 6,400 care facilities. We know from experience that some applications may fall from the treatment process. This may be because they do not meet the requirements of the scheme or because construction starts are too far ahead of time. Only in response to the relationship between health places and care places, applications show that there is a majority for nursing homes rather than nursing homes. With the investment grant, the Government has provided opportunities for a smooth and good development in the municipalities. The response suggests that municipalities are prioritizing the construction of lucky day care facilities. We closely follow up on the applications that come in. The framework for the scheme and its phase-in will be assessed on an ongoing basis. Over the next 10–15 years, the growth in the number of people over 80 will remain stable, but from 2025 the increase will be significant. This means that we need to use the stable period we are now in, to gradually expand the service provision, so that we are prepared when the number of caregivers is increasing. The investment grant is a long-term measure. It shall provide the municipalities with the means to plan and enable construction to be undertaken when the need so requires. It is resource-intensive for municipalities to operate high-quality care services on a day-to-day basis. Therefore, these services require long-term planning that takes into account population development, geographical location and the content of the service provision. It is the municipalities themselves that decide whether they wish to invest in hospital or nursing homes when applying for investment grants. The government's starting point is that it pays to invest in well-organised buildings and offers, and that this must be an important area of activity for municipalities. It is a requirement of the investment scheme that modernisation and expansion should be specifically organised for residents with dementia and cognitive failure. This is also in line with Demenplan 2015. At the same time, care facilities for people with dementia will be well organised for other user groups. The government is very concerned about the capacity and quality of care services. We've shown that we can achieve the goals we set. In the new government platform, we have clear objectives for annual growth, investment, competence, research, rights and culture in the care of the elderly. We are to ensure full health care coverage by 2015 by providing this to all those who need hospitalisation or nursing homes. By the end of 2015, we will provide grants to 12,000 sick homes and lucky day care centres to ensure sufficient capacity, and we will further expand the framework if the applications received from municipalities so require. I follow developments closely and will make assessments based on applications and needs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e599	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I understand that the Council of State clearly says that the 12 000 places should be extended if needed, so that the election promise that everyone will have a place when they need it will be fulfilled. I am very pleased with the clear clarification and believe that if it is not a typographical error, there must at least be some communication failure when I was told quite clearly just a few days ago that the overall framework of 12,000 care stations should not be exceeded. Whether the Minister of Finance has written this – as it comes through the Ministry of Finance – or whether there has been another communication failure, I do not know. But I was very, very worried. We have many very sick elderly people who today need room. It's a little funny that the 20,000 places that the county officials clearly say we need have turned into 12,000 places, and the Minister of Health says that those needs were actually taken into account, so you're still going down to 12,000. I'm not going to go into it any more than yesterday's hearing in the committee was with organisations working in the care of the elderly, which points out that the need for 12 000 is getting too low – but enough about it. We get the places we need, and I'm glad. In terms of dents, which the Council of State also had in mind, there is a large group. When you build homes, I fully agree that it is good that these are arranged for denments. But that's another point that's also important. It's a day's offer for the dements. There is an enormous need for day care. In the past, I have understood that the Government will consider the statutory day-to-day provision of demente in connection with changes to the Law on Municipal Health and Social Services – i.e. the follow-up to the Bernt Committee, which has been pushed over for several years. I could imagine that the Council of State said something about the progress in that matter, which was to come, after all, in 2007. Now we are writing in 2009, and we are uncertain when this action comes, or when the law comes to the Stortinget with proposals for different solutions and different changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e610	As regards the last question, about the law on daily services for dementes, I have to ask to get back to that case and get a closer look at where it is. With regard to the matter raised here in the interview, it should be clear that our overall objective is to ensure full hospital coverage by 2015. Hospital or nursing home – that it should be a good day’s offer is really what it is about. Then I also have to say, as the representative of Davøy has certainly seen, that there are many types of municipal services, which are arranged somewhat differently, and what goes on again, is that most people want to live at home for as long as possible, either at home in their own home or at home in a nursing home. Therefore, it is important that we follow the municipalities and the development of the municipalities very closely, and until now at least it may indicate that the target number it has been set, 12,000, is in line with what the municipalities also see as being necessary. When it comes to the assessment of the population, I don't fully know the basis for the 20 000 figure, how it's been put to the bottom, but I'm sure you've come up with the measure based on population figures and projections in relation to it. Here it is important to see what the municipalities consider as the need, take it year by year, and then we will make assessments if there is a need beyond what is in the annual figures. That is what is very clear also in our government platform, and we will regularly come back to that in connection with the annual budget proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e619	We are strongly committed to building services in line with the needs and strengthening the quality of our common welfare systems. At the heart of that effort is the traditional care of the elderly, and indeed the whole care of all those who need it. Laila Davay stresses that she was now reassured by the Council of State, and I hope that my post can have a supplementary sedative effect. Otherwise I would say that in general there is reason to be calm now as the red-green governs! We are to ensure full hospital coverage by the end of 2015, and everyone who needs a nursing home or a nursing home is to have it. As we expand and modernise, home-based care needs to be strengthened so that several older people are given the opportunity to live in their own homes. There is no doubt about the government platform. We're going to contribute grants and free revenues to the municipalities, so there's enough capacity for services. As the Council of State, I would like to stress that we are seasily expanding beyond 12,000 lucky days' places if the entrance to the application from the municipalities so requires. 12,000 is among others. looking at it as a preliminary number, I think I'd say so, but there's a lot of sense in having such a number, not least in terms of ensuring an equivalent offer across the country. Because it may be a useful figure to have in view of a fairly fair geographical distribution of the commitment now in the first phase of the bet period. We need to support the municipalities so that they can meet the increase in the number of caring people with sufficient building mass of good quality. I believe that we, together with the municipalities, have come a long way after the investment grant was established in 2008, as the Council of State also explained. Government grant commitments to 6000 places, including the framework for next year, are well consistent with the rate of development of municipalities. The grants are granted for both entry, purchase, conversion and rectification. It's true, as Laila Davøy said, there's no specific guidance on the distribution of nursing homes and nursing homes. The specific assessments needed here belong in the municipalities. I have great confidence that the municipalities know what serves their citizens best. There are many good solutions to look around the country and many well-thought-out plans for construction and operation, which support the goal of the red-green government of an elderly care that ensures the elderly a dignified life, choices, respect and privacy. The best services are often best because they are adapted to local circumstances. Here from Stortinget, we are going to make it possible for the municipalities to do their job well, not direct them in detail about what kind of solution applies. Moreover, the municipalities are definitely closest to knowing how the financial and personnel resources are best used in their municipality, and what structures it is right to do. The level of care must be optimally adapted to the individual. There is also a reason why the user should not be passive. Where and how people live and receive services, the experience of seaworthiness, normality and dignity for each user is increasingly influenced. The development of day-old care homes as an alternative to nursing homes is, in many contexts, an expression of the local authorities' follow-up to many of our national policy objectives in this area. There are many people today who live with diseases and disabilities, and who depend on extensive public services, but who still want to live in owner-occupied housing, which is also a nursing home. They look at the possibility of private life with visits by family and friends, perhaps with accommodation, as an essential part of their own management of everyday life. At the same time, I would like to stress the importance of having sick homes enough for those who depend on just such an offer. A study conducted by NIBR and mentioned in the care report shows that only 6 pst. of future elderly people want to move to a nursing home. Four out of ten seniors want municipal care, and more than half prefer private furnished housing. The most important thing in the care of the elderly is to provide good services, to take into account the needs of users and to ensure adequate staffing regardless of the form of residence. And here we're going to face those who are responsible for giving the offer, the municipalities, both with grants for the number of units needed, and through a significant growth in municipal free income. There is a slight difference between a lucky day's offer in nursing homes and nursing homes. Users can have the same type of services, but exercise and procedures are different. In day-care homes, the service is organised according to individual decisions given to users, as required by law. This means that the content is well described. I would like to conclude by saying that it is positive that some municipalities have now begun to take individual decisions relating to the content of the service, even in the case of nursing homes. It helps to ensure better rights of users.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e649	The state recommends that we have a health home for every four older people over 80 years, i.e. a coverage of 25 pst. And there is no doubt that the increase in the number of older people in the future will give municipalities massive tasks. Today, there are 630,000 older people over 67 years of age, and this could increase to as much as 1.4 million in 2050. We already have a sub-coverage in hospitals today, and the municipalities are shutting down and relocating hospitals all over the country. Thus, there is a large-scale privatisation of the care arena with a consequent reduction in the quality and extent of care for the sick old. The vast majority of municipalities are betting on nursing homes in front of nursing homes, and a total of 24 pst. of the municipalities will reduce the number of institutional locations. When the government talks about 12,000 nursing homes and the health care places of the day by 2015, the Progress Party fears that we will again have a massive investment in nursing homes in front of nursing homes, especially in the small municipalities with less than 20,000 inhabitants. Municipalities are encouraged to develop plans to meet the care challenges in the future. Centers for Care Research – Sør has gone through these plans and revealed that the fear of the Progress Party is justified. The researchers say that they are concerned that the rate of hospitalization will decline. They also state that they are not impressed by the content of many of the plans, which lack clear conclusions, strategies and actions. The researchers say that demographic development means that we only have time and the way, and that if we go to sleep now, we will have a real crisis in ten years' time. The government’s commitment to the expansion or conversion of 12000 housing units up to 2015 is too weak in relation to the need, as indicated by today’s interpellation. The investment grant received by the municipalities from the State has remained silent for several years, with the result that the municipal funding share has increased significantly. When we know that the municipal economy has never been as bad as in 2008, with negative net operating performance on a national basis, it says that municipalities have very limited opportunities for co-financing. The rigid regulatory framework for the investment grant is also a major obstacle to municipalities that are looking creatively for opportunities to meet the challenges. Public Private Cooperation is almost impossible. The municipalities are then forced to choose the least costly solution for the municipality, but not necessarily the best in relation to the service provision to be provided. From the point of view of municipalities, nursing homes appear to be an opportunity to get two suction pipes into the treasury, both for investment grants and for the State housing aid scheme. In addition, it is the individual resident who himself has to pay for, among other things. food, medical services and physical therapy, leading to lower operating costs for the municipality. Some municipalities have a philosophy that nursing homes should be an alternative to nursing homes. Dwellings are designed with the so-called life-cycle standard, so that it is possible to live there even if one should become dependent on a wheelchair or for example. takheis. What's the challenge of such a philosophy is manning. In principle, manning should be able to be increased and reduced in line with the needs of care, which is a major challenge in small municipalities, and which law and contract work tend to hinder. The consequence is that many very needy elderly people are not given the opportunity to live in the nursing home, as was the intention, but are transferred to a nursing home in the final phase, with the pressures such movements are for an old, sick person. I once heard a specialist in institutional services in a municipality here in the East saying that the municipality had as a guide that if a patient in a hospital was alive one year after the hospitalization, he was initially misplaced. This position was based on the fact that a health home site was a greater financial burden for the municipality. For the undersigned and the Progress Party, such an attitude is totally unacceptable, and I will challenge the Council of State to see whether she agrees with it. The Progress Party believes that far more sick homes need to be built. The investment grant must be increased and incentives must be provided in the grant scheme to stimulate the development of nursing homes. We have noticed that KS believes that the investment grant needs to be increased to 50 pst. The Government itself has said that the Government will evaluate the grant scheme. The Progress Party believes that private health care providers must also be included in the grant scheme. Municipalities should also have the possibility to establish so-called ‘sell and lease back’ schemes. The Progress Party hopes that we can remove the ceiling that limits the development and increase the investment grant. At least the Ministry should take on board that we have some press areas where construction costs are high. They have understood that in the Ministry of Knowledge, where they provide 20 pst. more in grants to some defined areas for the construction of student housing. The same understanding obviously does not exist in the Ministry of Health, where the State Secretary criticises Stavanger Municipality for having a cost framework that is above the national average. It's pretty naive if someone thinks that everyone can be on or preferably below the national average. The Progress Party now expects the Council of State to address this issue and to ensure a sufficient number of hospitalisation sites. We're not as calm as others have expressed here. We don't believe it until we see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e678	The representative of Hagebakken is extremely pleased with the efforts and offers in the care sector under the red-green government. But there is a sea between the reality of many municipalities, professionals, users and relatives, and that of the red-green ones. There is a lot of good in the care sector, but there are also many shortcomings in care for the elderly today. Growth in the years to come will require a cap on the number of sick homes, nursing homes and professionals. The aim of the right is to provide everyone with a high-quality, high-quality care. The most important thing is to strengthen quality through increased skills, multiple doctors, more nurses and more caregivers. More hospitals and nursing homes must also be built. The government is very busy knocking on the chest and boasting of several employees in the care sector, and the Prime Minister was high on the field in the election campaign and promised to raise the elderly. Now it turns out that what they are proposing for several employees does not mean any real improvement, but a continuation of the status quo. For the Right, good care for the elderly is not only about quantity but also about ensuring good quality. It is right that a proposal was made last year by the Stortinget that a new binding action plan on care services should be drawn up, with concrete objectives for the construction of several places in hospitals and nursing homes, with earmarked funds and state subsidies. This will provide better services in the short term, while at the same time equipping us for increased needs in the future. But this voted the government parties down. They just wanted to look at the need from year to year. It is not predictable for the municipalities and for the sector. The right considers that health and care services in municipalities need to have a greater share of healthcare resources. They need to be upgraded with better medical equipment and more professionals, both doctors and nurses and caregivers. It's not just enough to get more beds. Those who lie in these beds should also care, and there is a service that must be of high quality. We need to recruit more nurses, who can ensure a better medical offer at home and in home health care. The right also wants to introduce a pool of skills into payroll schemes aimed at the public sector educational groups, in particular nurses. We believe that there is a pay gap for the employees with higher education in the public sector, and we believe that a pool of skills will have a good effect on women's wages and ensure that the public sector can recruit enough skills, not least in this sector. We believe that today's strategy of recruiting more and more unskilled people in jobs requiring vocational training cannot continue, because it affects quality. More attention needs to be paid to research and professional development in health and care services in order to ensure that the quality of supply is improved, while at the same time making it professionally attractive to work there. The knowledge sector is also affected by the provision of care. And it doesn't keep increasing the effort from almost zero to almost nothing, as Stoltenberg suggests. We also need to take a hold on research and knowledge, and this has been followed up in our alternative budget. We will also strengthen the medical coverage in hospitals by introducing a grant that ensures that doctors in hospitals serve as much as doctors in hospitals. We have proposed this in Stortinget, and it has been downgraded. But we think it would make sure that it would also be attractive for doctors to work in a nursing home. We know that older people have five to six active diagnostics. In other words, they need good treatment and care. We also want to invest more in the over 30 pst. unskilled in the care sector, making a formidable effort and facing demanding tasks. That is why we want to give a knowledge gap for increased competence, so that users get a better offer. We have proposed this several times in Stortinget – and have had budget cuts – but it has been voted down. There are many people who have talked about several places in hospitals and nursing homes, and I agree with that, it is necessary. However, we also need to ensure that we have qualified personnel – doctors, nurses and caregivers – to work in the sector ahead. And then we have to bet on even more in terms of education and careers than what is being done today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e699	I want to begin by commending the interpellant for addressing this important topic. When the Left chose to join the elder settlement, there were a number of measures to improve the content, quality and capacity of care for the elderly, and the expectation that a settlement would provide a long-term and more predictable promise. The challenges of care for the elderly are high and comprehensive, both in the areas of hands, skills, quality and health care facilities. That is why we are pleased that the agreement came into force. We had great expectations that this would mean that the Government understood the seriousness of the situation. We're not so sure that it does. In the revised budget last year, the Left introduced 600 million. extra in its alternative budget for several hospitals. It's great that the interpellant addresses the difference in estimated needs and actual priorities. For us, the agreement on the elderly was a minimum measure, and we have always made reservations that the dimensioning has to be sufficient. If the investment grant is organised in such a way as to ‘remuneration’ for municipalities rather than to build nursing places than nursing homes, it is in our opinion contrary to the agreement that was concluded. The care of the future depends on stronger and larger municipalities to strengthen community health services, care for the elderly and the care of the caregivers. Here the government dares not take any action. The left has long pointed to the need to strengthen primary health services, as well as to avoid older people becoming throw-offs between municipalities and hospitals. If the government had wanted to reduce the number of elderly people waiting for a sick home, they would have created more reinforced hospitals so that older people could be treated more closely. Today, too many elderly people are in need of care for a long time in the hospital after treatment. Massive resources are used in hospitals, which could instead have been used in hospitals and given older people a more dignified end of life. Nor does the government have a plan for recruiting health workers. The left will introduce a system of remission of student debt for nurses and assistant nurses who will work in the primary health service. If we are to meet the need for labour in the future, every third person leaving high school has to choose health education. We need more incentives and good professional environments to be able to provide good care. The welfare reform of the left is more treatment and less bureaucracy, more prevention and less repair. The government has announced the construction of 12,000 nursing homes or nursing homes with a day care service until 2015. There have been several people here today. In St.meld. No However, 25 for 2006–2007, the Government itself describes the need for 60,000 new sites by 2030. Thus, the government has dimensioned fewer places than the need it itself describes in the future towards 2030. The number of people with dementia in Norway will increase by more than 1,500 per year over the next 40 years. years. This year it's $157 million. kr extra give 1500 more hospital and care places. In the long term, we need 60,000 more employees and 2 billion more a year to meet the large number of caregivers in the next 20 years. As the Left sees it, it's the government's responsibility that this is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e718	I agree with the representative Davøy that it is important to develop nursing homes and care facilities, and I am pleased that there is a broad political consensus that this is a priority task. That's why I think it might have been a little unnecessary for the Christian People's Party to try to create the impression that there's not much to bet on developing the places of care of the lucky day. But it was good to hear how quickly the representative Davøy was calmed down. When the government now decides to build 2,500 new care facilities in 2010, there is a great deal to be done, and I am sure the municipalities will follow up. I also think it is good that the government says that the application entry will be followed closely, and the government will continuously make an assessment of the framework given for the scheme and its phase-in. In other words, if more is needed, the number will be increased. What is extra good is that not only does the government add up to a large expansion, but it has also built up a municipal economy that enables the municipalities to fill the care stations. The government's political platform sets the target of getting it by 2015 to all those who need a sick home or a happy day's care centre, and it is, of course, established. It is quite incredible to hear the representative, Davøy, criticise the great effort we now have, when she herself put in a government that fed the municipalities hunger and did not invite at all a big effort to develop municipal health services. That starvation contributed to a stagnation in the municipalities. It is now turning around, and there has been a greater expansion in the health sector than we have ever seen. It's also interesting to hear Right Great Will to Increase Now. But as far as I know, they have not put any more money into their budget proposals, nor do I know how much money they actually have, as they seem to be the most important tax havens. In my municipality of Halden, we have benefited from the subsidies provided by the Stoltenberg government, and we have built both a nursing home for demente and nursing homes for several different groups of users. The newly built nursing home has provided 43 places for dentures, but not least a good day’s offer for home-dwelling denments. Without a grant scheme and an increase in the local economy, this would not be possible. It appears from the Husbanken that commitments will be made during 2009 to approx. 2,200 units. By the end of June, the main emphasis was on these hospitals. The vast majority of hospitals were to demente, which is a priority area. This shows that we have municipalities that follow up national leadership. The fact that the Government now provides that municipalities can receive grants for both nursing homes and care places gives each municipality the opportunity to assess what the municipality needs. Nursing homes have gradually become a concept that is used differently, but what the government describes is the places of care of the day. There are many users who want to use the opportunities provided by a nursing home to get their own apartment, but at the same time they want the security of someone there when they need it. It is important to take care of that possibility. We in the Labour Party are concerned that people should have choices and organized offers for the individual, while it is important that when care needs are changed so that nursing homes are no longer an alternative, there is the possibility of getting a nursing home. The users of hospitals and nursing homes live in the municipalities, and they get their services from the municipalities. Therefore, I think it is right that the municipalities, who know the need, have the opportunity to apply for grants for different places. At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that many people want to live at home and get home-based services. We must do the same. We now see that new technology in the future will give more people who want it, the opportunity to live longer at home. Now it's not just the places to build. They're supposed to have crews and good deals. Therefore, we have to go one step at a time and build up at a pace that the municipalities can follow. Therefore, it is important to have a good dialogue with municipalities, which are the owners and run hospitals and care centres in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e744	I could quickly go into a polemics with the previous speaker, which I shall not do. I just want to say that the Bondevik II government completed the previous retirement plan – and we are proud of that – which also went on building a certain number of homes and not least exclusive coverage. What we are discussing today is housing and not quality. At the same time, I very much agree with the representative from the Right that the quality of care for the elderly – to which the Left was also involved – is incredibly important. Today I don't focus on it, but I can promise that we will come back with a focus on content and quality in another context. So what's the need? I feel that it's most insecure, and I'm afraid the government is bombing on that particular target. At the same time, it is true that I am calmed down, but I am reassured that the Council of State has clearly distanced me from the answer I received from the Ministry of Finance, that we had a ceiling of 12,000. The most important thing is that every person who needs a sick home place – which has been my concern here today – gets it, and I choose to trust that the Council of State believes this seriously. She has said it several times today. At the same time: Why do I think the government is bombing the target? Well, I think we'll have to build far more hospitals than that. The report that we have received on the table today says that the municipalities are cutting. The report says that the need for places is likely to be underestimated. The municipalities are now cutting their offer, we know that. One of the most serious things we can also hear about from many non-governmental organisations, outside the care of the elderly, is that the municipalities are converting to care facilities, or maybe just building care facilities. A care centre is not a hospital place. The problem with nursing homes is that many of these, perhaps most of them, do not have medical coverage and do not have the same staff requirements. There are completely different rules attached to it, but of course, those who want to be there and live there will be allowed to do so. But a lot of relatives, and also clients, say that they would much rather have a hospitalized place, because with that they feel safer. So anyone who needs a sick home spot will get it. Nice! The other groups also need housing. We're mentally ill, we've got rubrics, we've got mentally retarded people standing in long queues today. As for the boasting of the 10,000 hands, we should not forget that the 10,000 hands are going to go to all groups, as we are now saying that 12,000 nursing homes are going to go to all groups. We know that of the 10,000 hands, over half of them did not go to the sickest of the elderly. My concern today is the sickest of the elderly, as it has been in the past. It's also going to be multiple times.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e760	I would like to comment a little bit and start with the representative, Gåsvatn, who spoke about the undercovering in nursing homes. It's quite clear that when we say we're going to work towards 2015 so that everyone who needs a nursing home or a nursing home will get it, it's precisely because there's too few of them today. This is something we will do in close cooperation with the municipalities. I also want to stress that there are actually a lot of people who want to stay in a nursing home and live there as far as possible. Many municipalities have set up their housing provision a little stronger, with common areas, often combined with home health care, etc. in order to have an offer if the elderly become sicker, so that they can live there, in their own home, for as long as possible, or they want to live at home in the dwelling they have had for longer of their lives. The representative, Sjøli, addresses this with the number of annual works. I fully agree that it is important to focus on staffing and recruitment. There's a lot of people who've been around. This is incredibly important. Here I think we're all going to have a big challenge in the future, because it's not like if you go into a high school class today, the students are in line to work in the care sector. This is why it is our responsibility both to tell about everything that is good in the care sector and the elderly and to make it visible, and to make it attractive to work there. Here I can assure you that we will look at all the municipalities and all the places in the country where you do a good job of recruiting, in order to be able to copy it to other parts of the country and other municipalities. I was just in Tromsø and looked at a project to recruit skilled workers. They've done it an excellent way, it's a very good model that many others can copy. There is also a major challenge in getting enough medicine into the care sector. Then I would like to tell the representative Tenden that the agreement that was concluded in the care sector on a guarantee of dignity, which goes on competence, which goes on dimensioning, that goes on active care – the care plan – we follow closely. It's a very good agreement that I'm going to promise that we're going to follow up on all of those points, in terms of competence, manning, etc. One more thing: when it comes to research in this sector, it is much smaller than it is in many other areas of specialist healthcare. That's something we need to do more to make it attractive to be also in this sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e773	Then there's case no. 2 completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-12.ana.ud185e807	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
