ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e22	The formerly exempted alternate of the South-Trøndelag County, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, has taken the seat again.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e51	On Monday the Storting received a message from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Erik Solheim State Council Heidi Grande Røy State Council Helga Pedersen The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral Question Time. Representatives who, in addition to the pre-announcers, would like to ask questions will be asked to stand up. – We will then start with the first main question, from the representative of Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e70	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. In several regions of the country, the power situation is difficult. The situation in Central Norway is well known, but also in Finnmark it is sometimes very demanding. At the same time, several batches, including in the Government, work to electrify new petroleum installations from land, both outside central Norway and outside Finnmark. But it's hard to see where this force is going to come from. After three-and-a-half years of red-green government, the small-scale power plant has gone from the construction of 27 small-scale power plants in 2005 to the completion of one small-scale power plant last year. The wind performance in the last four years has not given any new concessions that have been realised. In the case of gas power policy, paradoxes are even greater. So the government allows to build gas power stations on oil platforms, but not on land, despite the fact that it would usually be much more environmentally friendly for a built-up gas power stations on land and not on the platform. For example, the Government proposes to grant concession to five gas turbines on the Flotation Platform to operate the Goliath field, while one on land has not given a concession to Hammerfest Energie and Sargas to build a gas power plant with CO2 cleaning. The paradox is even greater when one sees that in central Norway one wants to build a gas power plant – an area of power crisis – but the government assumes that there will be CO2 cleaning at start-up, despite the fact that the same government says that CO2 cleaning is a technology that is not commercially available; it must first develop in Mongstad, and it is at least five years in time. So one demands a technology that is not realistic in Central Norway. One says no to the development of gas power plants with cleaning based on another technology in Hammerfest, but one says yes to gas power plants on the sea as long as it is related to oil activities. Will the Council of State ensure that an overall CO2 policy is adopted in this area and that one makes it possible to build gas power plants on land on the assumption that... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e95	I take it for granted that the representative Solvik-Olsen knows that he is asking questions now that are mainly under the Ministry of Oil and Energy. I'm still going to try to give an answer to the question, but I just want to underline it. Let's take the planned gas power plant at Fräna, as it's referred to here. This fully illustrates the new green gift that has come into Norwegian environmental policy with the red-green government. While we had previously – under the Bondevik government, with the support of the Progress Party – a completely lax attitude to start gas power plants without CO2 cleaning, this government has said that if new gas power plants are created in Norway, this will be gas power plants with CO2 cleaning. It is a very significant breakthrough that we have now said clearly to Industrikraft More that yes, they have the opportunity to build gas power plants on Fräna, but it must be a gas power plant that has been cleaned from the first day. Then it will be able to stimulate technology development there. Above all, the technological developments taking place in Mongstad could have transfer value to other parts of the country. But it is clear that the state cannot go in and run parallel technology development projects everywhere. So the state's commitment to technology development takes place in Mongstad, but it could have an impact elsewhere. Reference is made to a power crisis in Central Norway. Now the government has taken several steps to mitigate such a power crisis: better interconnection in the network, development of transformers and other measures. But it will not at all help the acute situation that can at least theoretically be imagined with power shortages in Middle Norway, building a gas power plant that will arrive several years in time. So the government's line – a long-term line to develop carbon capture and storage, and not new gas power plants without this technology, but at the same time the short-term mitigation measures for the power crisis – is a forward-looking and green line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e112	I'm not going to go into a power debate, because the Council of State is obviously not aware that the Government has not promoted any measures in central Norway, except for two mobile gas plants as a solution, and there are two mobile gas plants without cleaning. So the entire Council of State response falls on stone, because the essence of my question is exactly what the Ministry of the Environment is responsible for. Consent for gas power plants is the Ministry of Oil and Energy responsible for, emission permit is the Ministry of the Environment responsible for. Paradoxes arise when one says that new gas power plants on land cannot start up until they have clean-up from day one, despite the fact that the Government also says that that technology will not be ready for at least five years – one thus demands technology that does not exist – while at the same time building new oil installations and allowing gas power plants to be built without cleaning where it would be more sensible to move the gas power plant on land and use the same technology, but improved efficiency. You could also clean it so that you could get a better environmental project with the same gas. But that doesn't make the government's policy possible. Will the Council of State review this approach in order to maximise the use of gas?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e119	With – again – this is not essentially my responsibility, I feel that I have already answered the question quite carefully. We're making every effort to get to technology development. As I said in the presentation last week, to which Solvik-Olsen has hopefully listened, technology development is the very answer to the climate crisis. It will also be interesting to see whether the National Assembly of the Advance Party, which will now open in a few days, can clarify the policy of the Advance Party at this crucial point for Norwegian voters, or whether the Advance Party intends to keep Norwegian voters for fools and not tell in advance of the election what the party stands for. We put all our emphasis on the development of technology. That's why we put these kind of strict conditions, so that the industry knows what it has to do with. That's what's driving the technology in the future – just as Obama's climate requirements have just been addressed to the American car industry will drive climate change in the American car industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e126	Then the President will allow three follow-up questions – first from Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e129	The power balance in Central Norway has been irresponsibly poor for many years. Today's government has not taken up the challenge, except that the government has now agreed to build gas power plants in Elnesvågen. It's time, it's positive, and it gets Right-wing support. SV's Bjørn Jacobsen claims in Sunnmørsposten 19 May that we can now cancel the power crisis with the concession, and that we can not build the monster line from Ørskog to Fardal. Jacobsen states that the plans for Industrikraft Møre have been recognised by the Ministry of the Environment, and that what is now needed is money and plans, and that the state is going in with significant amounts, so that we get a split layer. The government has spent NOK 3 to 4 billion on highly polluting mobile gas power plants. A gas power plant in Elneswagen with much less emissions and with great benefits should be a priority for the environment. Can the Council of State confirm Jacobsen's statements to the Sunnmørsposten, and when does the Council of State expect the gas power plant in Elneswagen to be completed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e138	The wise environmental policy consists in clarifying to industrial actors the framework conditions to which they should relate in the years to come, so that they can plan precisely – again: what Obama has now done for the American car industry. We do the same for the Norwegian power industry and for gas power plants. All new gas power plants shall be based on carbon capture and storage. It drives technology development, and it will make it possible to do so. Then we go into Mongstad with large government subsidies to make it a top project. That's the international tip project to get this done. It is the fruitful blend of industrial regulation with the subsidisation of technology development that will solve this problem. Let me also remind you that when the Bondevik administration set up, no initiative was taken in this area. The right went into the campaign in 2005 and told me that carbon capture and storage were too expensive, and there was no reason to invest in it. The revolution here has happened with the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e148	Leif Helge Kongshaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e151	As the questioner had in mind, there has been a lack of power in Central Norway. It is due to underproduction, but not least to low transmission capacity. It has also resulted in a separate price range, which has created great irritation for businesses and residents by paying hundreds of million dollars more for the power than they would if it had been enough power. Now we have a unique situation in Central Norway by building a power plant that produces electricity. There are opportunities to drive CO2 back to the oil fields to get more oil and gas out. There are opportunities to electrify the cap and thus save CO2 emissions. Here is the opportunity to have an adequate power supply in Central Norway. Will the Minister for the Environment sit in the driver's seat and take an initiative in the Government to coordinate all the good forces here, which can lead to the big gain in several areas if this is taken up?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e166	Yes, we are, of course, prepared to discuss with the industrial actors how this can be done most easily – whether there are state elements in what is initially a private and commercial process. If we can contribute to it, of course, it's topical. But this is not something that can be based on large state subsidies. We can only have that in Mongstad. It's at Mongstad's very technological development will take place. We also run Kårstø, we have Elnesvågen, and we have several parallel issues, but the very tipping of the technology will have to take place in Mongstad, because you need a highly competent international environment. Mongstad is now the international peak environment in this area, which hopefully can "fertilize" what is happening on the Franc. But, of course, we are prepared to talk to the industrial actors in More, as suggested.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e171	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e174	I understand that the Council of State is depriving itself of his actual responsibility for the missing emission permit, which should have come from the SFT, one of the Council's underlying agencies. The government has recently even scrapped CO2 management at Kårstø. The argument was that it was both economically and technologically very demanding. When it was thought that a relatively small and newly established company on Elnesvågen in Møre and Romsdal probably does not have the same resources as the Government initially has, I wonder if the Council of State believes that it is likely that Industrikraft Møre will be able to avail itself of the concession they have received, whether it is likely that they will have DKK 5 billion in terms of technology development and in terms of the development of CO2 treatment plants on the Elnesvågen. Or is this concession simply given as a rail maneuver to show a certain amount of action in relation to the power crisis in Central Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e189	I notice that the Progress Party does not at one time, in one question, in a way to formulate the questions, seem to be concerned with what is the most important, the essence of the matter: we have a gigantic climate crisis. The people on this earth are threatened by climate change. The only solution is to make strict demands on industry in Norway, as in the United States and China, to develop the technology that can solve this. It should have been granted an emission permit. I do not know where the Progress Party believes it should not have been granted an emissions permit. We believe that strict requirements must be imposed, in this case for CO2 management, in order to drive the technology further. Of course, it's not right, as we are told here, that we have given up the idea of carbon capture and storage on Kårstø. On the contrary, we look at the possibilities of something larger and therefore more glare, beautiful and finer, namely how we can clean all CO2 on Kårstø – not only from the gas power plant, but also from integration with the terminal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e202	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e205	The Council of State may stand still, but this time take on another hat, namely the hat as Minister of Development. The Sri Lankan war has reached its preliminary conclusion by defeating the military wing of the LTTE by the government forces. The victory has cost the people of Sri Lanka dearly, and many talk about the result as a grotesque battlefield. This is a war that has engaged and affected many in Norway. We have 12,000 Tamils who are concerned and afraid of their families and their families. It is also a conflict that has engaged Norwegian politicians strongly, not least the Council of State itself, who have had a great deal of commitment to Sri Lanka. History has taught us that peace is to be won, it is absolutely crucial what happens in the first phase. It is now necessary to address a situation that can be described as a humanitarian disaster of quite enormous magnitude, where thousands of civilians are killed and injured, 250,000 are refugees and totally dependent on emergency aid and medical assistance, and tens of thousands are put in camps described by some as concentration camps. In the short term, it is essential that the international community be informed, that observers be given the opportunity to attend, and that humanitarian aid and assistance be provided. There's some of the root of the problem now, that the government keeps the information tight and does not give it access to information for the international community. My question to the Council of State is: How does Norway work to contribute to the presence, information and humanitarian aid of the UN, the press and others?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e216	Every word Sanner says, I could make up my own -- they're all right. Just to illustrate this: 10 on 17 May in the evening, Pulesedevan, head of the peace secretariat of the Tamil Tigers, called us. We could hear shooting in the background. He told me that he and the head of LTTE's political department, Nadesan, would surrender to the International Red Cross, and asked if we could contribute to this. We gave him the advice that he had to lift the white flag, get a speaker so they could shout it out – because there was no one else in the war zone – so that this could happen immediately, and of course communicated the wish both to the Red Cross, to the Americans and to the Government of Sri Lanka. Five hours later they were both dead. Norway has had close contact with this at all times. The most important thing we can do is work with countries that are stronger and have more muscles than us, like the United States, the EU and Japan. And the requirements of Sanner are quite right: immediate access for the international community, the UN and the Red Cross to the war zone itself in order to observe what is likely to have happened there. But even more important now is immediate access to all of the camps where almost 300,000 Tamils are. Remember, the government said there were 70,000 Tamils in that area -- it turned out to be almost 300,000. The figure was even higher than the estimates made by the Tigrens and the United Nations. So the government has deliberately and systematically lied in this area. Now access has to be granted. It is so far refused, but the UN requires it, the United States demands it, the EU requires it, and we demand it, and it must happen quickly, because it is in this phase that people can be liquidated without law and judgment. Assault can happen. We must have a full registration of all the people who are there, and we must have full insight into what is happening in the camps. It must be clear that if the international community is to pay for the camps and for the reconstruction of all the social and humanitarian needs that come, we must also have transparency.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e225	Let me stress that I am pleased with the very clear language of the Council of State, where he says that there must be immediate access to camps, information, observers present and humanitarian aid. I am pleased that the Government is so ready for its language use, and that you will now work internationally. I agree that here it does not help any country to run some kind of solo game, but here it is the international community that needs to act strongly and coordinatedly. So I'm glad that Norway will contribute to such a role. My follow-up question will be whether the Council of State can say anything about how he assesses the will and ability of the government in Colombo to accept this help. I believe it is absolutely essential that we do not now give it access to cover up tracks and to commit new abuses. Can the Council of State say anything about how he now assesses the will of the government in Colombo to comply with the international pressure coming?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e232	So far there's been little will for it. The war zone itself has been totally, hermetically closed, there have been no observers who have been able to tell true what has happened there, and all the demands for access have been rejected. There has been some access to the camps, but not the complete access, and above all not access from people is taken to prison, until they come to the camps, which can guarantee that no one disappears on the road. All of this has been denied, despite considerable international pressure. In addition, I would like to add that it is absolutely vital now that the Sri Lankan government – after winning a military victory over the Tigers – also wins peace. This can only happen if they create an inclusive state where all three groups of people – single, Tamil and Muslim – feel like equal citizens in the state, and self-government is given to the Tamil-dominated, north-east parts of the country. If the government turns out to be shy based on military victory, Sri Lanka can take important steps forward. If you don't, you only sow seeds of new conflicts in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e242	The President will allow three follow-up questions – first Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e245	Once you've met Tamils both in the house here and outside when they've demonstrated, it makes a strong impression when you know that many of them may have lost most of their relatives in the tragedy that's now unfolded. The international community also encouraged the civilian Tamils to leave the war zones and go to the refugee camps. What is now reported is that the majority population is moving into these villages. There's no home to come back to for the Tamils. Solheim now said he hoped that the government would turn out to be shy. I think fundamental civil rights are an obligation regardless of government, and my question is, how does the Council of State see the possibility that international organisations can take over the operation of refugee camps?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e254	Rajapaksse said in his speech to Parliament in Colombo yesterday that a Sri Lankan solution to a Sri Lankan problem is needed and that Sri Lanka will not copy any foreign models. I guess that's good. But there are general international standards for what is right and wrong, and they cannot be compromised by the international community. They also apply to Sri Lanka. Standards include full access for the international community operating humanitarian aid in such camps, full access for the media and for relief organisations to a war zone, and also the important long-term principle that special protection for minorities is needed in a country. I do not know about a single European country that does not have rules on minority protection. The United States has been driving what is called "offfirmative action" since the dawn of time – at least since the 1950s. And India has a lot of minority protection. So Sri Lanka can not only treat each citizen individually – Sri Lanka must also be in line with international standards of minority protection, even when it comes to a Sri Lankan solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e259	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e262	The left shares the seriousness of the government's response. I would like to ask you in a slightly different way, because I am concerned about solutions: with the unique involvement that Norway has had in Sri Lanka – in which the Council of State itself has also had a solid and comprehensive part in – is there anything in the history where, in the thinking of the postwar clock, something else could have been done? And is there any such thing that in today's situation might be useful? I choose to ask you this way, because the situation is so complex, because we are facing what is so well described in the previous question, and because there is reason to have the turmoil that all the representatives here have shown, and that the Council of State has also expressed in its responses to the Storing so far.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e267	This is a very good question, and I do not overlook the fact that I will at some point give a long and comprehensive answer in a book or in other ways about what happened in this peace process. If I were to say one thing, it's that if you have to achieve 100 pst, it happens that you sometimes get zero. One of my great historical idols is the Irish leader Michael Collins. He fought military against the British, but he understood how far he could come with military battle before he went into political struggle. Finally he made a ‘deal’ with Churchill, where he achieved 80 pst. Of what was his program – not 100 pst., but 80 pst. – and the story has given him exactly the right thing to do. The parties in Sri Lanka insisted too much on having 100 pst. Or nothing, and then ended up – at least for the moment – on the tiger side with nothing. Both parties are responsible for such a maximist line. It was on the table in 2002-2003 – Jan Petersen was also involved in this – a federal solution. It should have been taken, and it would have been accepted by almost all people in Sri Lanka.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e272	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e275	Several hundred thousand people have lost their lives in war acts in the last 26 years in Sri Lanka. The number is even higher when you take with you all those who have died thanks to malnutrition and other indirect effects of the war. The war is now over, but the suffering continues. Now peace has to be won. The council was about to get a generous solution from the government. I totally share that. At the same time, it is very important to respect international human rights in any case, and not least the minority rights of Tamils have the right to do so. The Council of State, and not least the questioner, was concerned with some of the most important, namely access to the camps, transparency in general, getting back a free — at least a freer — press, but also that the Secretary-General of the United Nations is significantly more involved than today. My question to the Council of State is in Norwegian aid, Norwegian support: does the Council of State wish to make demands on them, so that we may have a greater impact on some of these requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e282	It's clear that it takes two to dance tango. If the Government of Sri Lanka wishes to involve the international community in the relief work in the north-east, the international community must also make demands for access to these camps and for compliance with general international standards. And, like, The representative Syversen was in, of course, it would be totally unacceptable to populate parts of the northeast with Srilanks. I've so far seen no sign of it, but if that were to happen, it would be a very dangerous development to take Sri Lankans into areas that have traditionally been Tamil. But the short-term is an immediate access for the UN and international relief organisations to have full insight into everything going on in the camps, and the long-term is to have a dialogue between government and a Tamil and Muslim leadership – and a leadership must arise now, because there is really a vacuum on the Tamil side – about an inclusive state where all the peoples of Sri Lanka can feel like equivalent citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e287	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e290	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. On 9 March 2000, the Bondevik government went off because one would not erode the pollution law. Cabinet questions were raised because the Workers' Party demanded the construction of gas power plants with today's technology. As a direct consequence of the departure of the Bondevik government, the gas power plant at Kårstø was later built. State Council Solheim has said earlier in the debate that the Bondevik II government had a low-growth attitude to gas power policy. The departure from the government offices does say that the Bondevik government did not have a low-growth attitude to gas power policy. On 17 October 2005, SV joined the government offices. It was required to clean Kårstø by 2009, but we see from the revised national budget that these plans are iced with SV in the government offices. A little over 14 days ago, the government promoted an extension case concerning Goliath. Goliath is located in a vulnerable and coastal area, and we will have increased greenhouse gas emissions. That same day, the government promoted a case of opening up oil drilling in Arctic strips. SV's 2009 programme states that SV is against petroleum activity both in the Barents Sea and around Svalbard. On Monday, SV's representatives here at the house were not even able to dry up the debate on StatoilHydro's oil sand activity in Canada, despite the fact that the Minister for the Environment has said that the company's involvement in oil sand is unacceptable – 14 days' history. My question is whether the Council of State is comfortable sitting in government offices and is responsible for a policy that goes across the SV's official environmental and climate policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e304	It is a little difficult to get directly into Norwegian domestic policy dispute mode after the previous case. Here a number of questions are asked about individual matters that I would like to answer, but since the general question is whether I am satisfied with the Government, I would say: I am very proud to be part of a red-green government that has completely changed Norwegian environmental policy. Just yesterday, there were two very good proofs of that. The NOx figures presented show a significant decrease in Norwegian NOx emissions. After the Bondevik government didn't do anything in this area, we came in and made an agreement with the industry. That deal works, and the numbers go down. The second thing that happened yesterday — it was a few days ago, but it was in the media yesterday — was that we are now presenting completely new rules for Norwegian nuclear waste, a completely new and much more stringent categorisation. From having very relaxed rules, we now get the strictest international rules and tight inspection. This is illustrated by the case in Yellow. Once again, after the Bondevik government didn't do anything, just sat and slept, the red-green government took hold of this. Take the Marka Law. The Christian People's Party has been in government for ten years. Since Gro laid out the law of the field, and Willoch withdrew it, one has not managed to get it out. We just did it. The Nature Diversity Act, which the opposition has long demanded: we just did it. When we presented the environmental budget in Stortinget for some time ago, even Lars Sponheim was panegyrisk in his tribute, because the environmental budget has remained silent all the time until we got it up. Carbon capture and storage, as the main parties of the Bondevik government in the election campaign said you shouldn't have, we've started. We have gained such a strong international environmental status that we have been given the title of "Champions of the Earth" by the UN because of the efforts of the Red-Green Government. We cannot measure ourselves against Jesus Christ – then we fall too – but compared to the alternative, we have everything to boast about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e321	It was violent!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e324	I think it was a very good description – this was violent! I think the Council of State has to admit that there are some people who have gone ahead. There are people who have made arrangements. I think the Council of State should soon begin to realize that others have done something about NOx, doing something about research and development related to CO2 capture and storage, done in some connection with Enova and green certificates – just to mention something. But you have to be able to ask questions from the point of view of 2009 as a ‘year of fate’. That was what the Council of State itself said in its presentation to the Storting last week. We're approaching Copenhagen. Does the Council of State think that we have something to boast about when we get to Copenhagen, about how we handle this ourselves? The fact that we have now reduced CO2 emissions in 2008 is due to the fact that we are driving fewer hours of taxi. Is there anything to brag about in Copenhagen?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e337	The test of whether we have something to brag about is what others think, not what we think. I brought this show-case to make a contrast between the red-greens that make it happen, and the Bondevik government that didn't make it happen, not to run around the world and boast. I don't think that has much to say. But the world boasts of Norway. We were appointed by the United Nations to the Champions of the Earth for political leadership internationally, because the United Nations thinks we have a lot to contribute. It's caused by a lot of things, including things that we've agreed with the opposition about, like the rainforest project. This is due to the Norwegian link – with which the Christian People's Party has disagreed – between development and the environment, and it is due to the Norwegian proposals in the climate negotiations, and our climate negotiators have received strong international recognition. So yes, internationally we have a lot to boast about, but it's very unlikely that it's wise to run around and brag this way. It's not going to make that very impression internationally, but I hope it might make a little bit of an impression on the Christian People's Party!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e342	There will be four follow-up questions – first, Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e345	Let me start by congratulating the Council of State on having had a full impact on one point, predatory policy. I'm not so happy about that, right? When the Progress Party wants to push the Council of States, it's to get him over from talk to action. There is no doubt that when it comes to talking about the environment, the Council of State is almost the world champion, but sometimes he struggles to win the circuit championship when it comes to action. The NOx agreement is one example. In the summer of 2006, the Progress Party promoted the proposal for a NOx agreement. Then the government parties voted against it and said that they would have to have a fee that increased by up to $50. It took a year and a half before the Government agreed to the Advance Party's proposal, in the winter of 2007, after the industry had been subject to a completely meaningless fee for one year. Yesterday we were told at Focus that Sweden is crushing us on a number of points. One of the reasons is that they burn almost all of their waste. The Government has promised in the revised national budget a reduction in the levy on the incineration of waste. It was increased. Will this lead to more or less energy use of waste in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e360	Now we have the situation again that five–six different questions are raised in each question to criticise the Government. It's not easy to answer everyone. Let me take the NOx emissions. If the Progress Party has come up with this at an earlier date, it is fine. I do not know whether it is a parliamentary expression to say that even blind hen can find grain, but at least it is an excellent image of this. It may be that the agreement with industry should have come sooner. Probably it should have come already approx. in 2000, just after the Gothenburg Conference, to get this going. But at least it's much better that it came than that it didn't come. And the governments that the Progress Party has supported didn't get it out. We've got it out. Now emissions are falling, and we can have a NOx policy in Norway. We're getting a little late, and it's because there's been so much time of death before we got there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e371	The President is probably somewhat in doubt that the expression used by the Council of State is parliamentary, as the Council of State itself was. Then it might be a good idea not to use it. Next follow-up question – Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e376	The councils have a history description that would make even his friends on the far left appear to be lowly. It is a fact that much of the environmental policy under the previous government took place through negotiations just between the then government parties and SV, and one would think that the SV in those negotiations would have had an impact on at least something – but obviously not. The international support received by Norway has been largely linked to the climate agreement and not to the Government’s original document presented in the Stortinget, for example. rain forest input generated by pressure from the opposition. But at least let me draw the attention of the Council of State to renewable energy, because we have enormous opportunities in renewable energy. Governments should perhaps listen to some of their own, for Haga said in 2007, when she was party leader and also state council, that there was a lack of willingness for renewable efforts. So the same Haga just two weeks ago said that there are strong forces in the government that are countering the renewable effort in the government. My question to the Council of State must be, who are those cancers? She represents the Center Party, who do you have left as a counterworker? [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e387	The President must ask the representatives to respect the speaking time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e390	Let me first say that when I now come up with a long list of everything we've got, I'm the first one to admit that we haven't got everything. That's why it's so important that we get re-elected in September, we can keep doing just as good things in other areas. One of the areas where we haven't had enough – I think all three government parties agree on – is renewable energy. We want to get significantly more both in terms of biomass, in terms of solar energy, in terms of wind power, and not least the difficult opportunities that lie in marine wind turbines, even if it is a little bit ahead of time. This is an area where we have not succeeded as well as in many other environmental areas. We failed to reach an agreement with Sweden on green certificates. Now the negotiations are resumed. The purpose of the oil and energy minister is to complete them by 1 October, and if we get it in place, or, alternatively, another equivalent system, the Norwegian renewable energy market will also be much better, as we have a common wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e400	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e403	The Minister for the Environment appears to be a potent player in climate policy in the international arena, but more and more as castrated in environmental policy at home. When he receives an international prize, e.g. therefore, for rainforest billions that the opposition got into the climate agreement, it is linked to increasing criticism and rage from the environmental movement due to repeated lifting breaches. The last to join the critics is an SV insurrection against the Government's vote in the case of oil sands. Now we read in the newspaper today that Hallgeir Langeland and No Marte Thorkildsen will write a letter to the Government to find out what has happened in an important environmental matter. It is quite psychedelic that the party that has the Minister of Finance and the Minister of the Environment must write to the Government and ask what is going on. The most natural thing would have been to ask SV in a letter: what is going on with the glider from the party's environmental policy? But now we have the Council of State here, so he can answer. Is he comfortable with SV having to write to the Government to explain the failure of environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e410	The President would point out that he is not in doubt when it comes to the use of the word "castrated" in this context. Although he has understood that this is a natural vocabulary in the Left, it is not a parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e413	We're going to have to take the debate on hens and castration and all of this eventually. But to answer this question really, get it out of the pingpong that's been in the last place: what's shown in the newspaper is that these want to ask questions in the big fraction, which of course is a normal thing. But we have now experienced that parties that have never previously decided to use state ownership to influence the environmental policy of a company, have suddenly started a pingpong about this in the media, after I took this up at SV's national meeting. Oil sand is a technology that I do not think we need, and which the Intergovernmental Panel has marked as particularly dangerous, but we need a broad debate on how state ownership should be exercised. When Stortinget discussed the ownership message, these themes were not thoroughly discussed. I don't even think the Left Party or the Christian People's Party at this point was even in charge of this. We need the broad debate now to define some principles of state ownership in such matters. We have no tradition of running detailed management in individual matters, no one wants to, and where the boundaries go for this, I believe is a matter we now need an open discussion about. We have already received part of the discussion in connection with the State pension fund – Foreign.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e422	Last follow-up question – Dagfinn Høybräten.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e425	I'll give the Council of State right at one point. It is quite clear that his artillery lists do not make any impression, nor on the Christian People's Party. That's it. My question relates to a point where I actually think there is reason to praise the Government, namely the tightening up that the Government has made on the environmental requirements where Norway owns through the Pension Fund. The Minister of Finance has explained this through an article in Dagbladet on 3 April, where she states that Norway will now become even more active and more broadly focused on the ethical administration in which Norway has minority shares through the Pension Fund. Considerations of the environment, social conditions and good corporate governance must be more integrated throughout the management of the fund. She also explains how to contribute to a positive change if you are in fact able to influence companies to change practices. This I think is very good. What I don't understand is why this is easier to get where the state is a minority shareholder than where the state is a majority shareholder. Can the Council of State explain that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e434	If we can get a proper exchange of views on this, I would like to start by saying that the Christian People's Party has been systematically a party in all of its history that has addressed state ownership while calling for it. But what it shows is that the whole field is changing, because the things that SV was alone about suggesting, for example. for the Statens Pensjonfond – abroad, has now been widely accepted in the Norwegian community. So there's a debate on change. I don't think we can decide on this one ownership exercise in Statoil as an isolated ad hoc case, but we need a broader debate on where the boundaries go, how to pursue strategic ownership without going into individual matters that I don't think anyone really wants. And I warmly welcome that debate, we need it, and it should be broad. But it cannot be operated in the ad hoc manner that the opposition has now addressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e445	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e448	I have a question for the Minister for the Environment. There was an awareness in the Stortinget when former councillor Åslaug Haga the other day said that there were strong forces in the government that countered a robust investment in renewable energy. It also alerted the Environment Minister, Erik Solheim, to the Daily Newspaper, to complain about the Workers' Party, which appears to be a brake on environmental policy. I see it as an exodus and a disclaimer of responsibility at a time when the list of bad environmental issues from the Government is long. We have already discussed the handling of the oil sands, which causes reaction and irritation in SV. We have repeated delays in cleaning in Mongstad, and we get what the Minister of Oil and Energy explains as a scrapping of the clean-up project on Kårstø. In addition, the Government presents a case of Goliath expansion, which will represent large greenhouse gas emissions, a case that SV has previously said they will actively oppose. We have received a natural diversity law that does not include the sea areas, which was a primary requirement of the environmental movement. We're getting to the top of the opening for oil business outside of Jan Mayen. It hears that SV was the only party to choose that one was against all the oil activity in the Barents Sea. So here we are facing a long list – and an increasing list – where the Swedish government delivers the exact opposite of what they have promised. Is it these matters and these failures that the Minister for the Environment has in mind when, on the whole of the first page of the Newspaper, he regrets the fact that he has to be in government with a Workers' Party which is a brake on environmental policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e459	Now both the Left and the Christian People's Party and others here are allergic to the show list we can put forward. That's why it hits these parts right in the middle of the heart. SV has been a driving force in this government. Based on 8.8 pst. by the votes, we have in a very good cooperation with the Workers' Party and the Zenter Party made a total change, a real pace change in Norwegian environmental policy. I document it with case by case, matters that were not dealt with by previous governments. They won't listen to it, but we'll get it out in the campaign as well. I think the Left Party and the Christian People's Party are a little jealous because they were never close to being able to get to anything of the same when they put in government with the Right. Then there'll be a long list. I don't know what matters it's desirable for me to pick from this list, but let me say: I don't know that in the government there has ever been any difference between renewable investment and carbon capture and storage. All members of the Government want to do both. We have come so far with carbon capture and storage that we can safely say that Norway is the world leader in this area. There's no environment, unfortunately, anywhere else in the world that's come anymore. It would have been nice, but we're world leaders. As far as renewable energy is concerned, we have not achieved as much as we would have liked, because of the difficulty in reaching an agreement with the Swedes on green certificates. But we're now fully grasping that work, and hopefully we'll get it to 1 October. So, once again, Kårstø is mentioned as if it had been scraped. Those who scrambled clean-up at Kårstø were the Bondevik government. We had to clean up the chaos that was created there with an emission permit for a polluting gas power plant, and have come in and demanded CO2 capture and storage. Yes, it takes longer, and it's harder technological than we should think, but you haven't put anything in the loop when you've expanded it. From just wanting to clean up the gas power plant, we have expanded it to look at cleaning up the integrated emissions at Kårstø.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e473	The Council of State is absolutely right. A total change has occurred in the policy on gas power. The previous government had a Sem-Declaration that said that they would not grant a concession to new gas power plants without a requirement for cleaning. It kept it to the point and the point. Today's government has a Soria Moria statement where it says the same thing, but it has broken the blatant at two points: the Mongstad gas power plant operates without cleaning from day one. One was supposed to clean Kårstø by 2009. According to Kristin Halvorsen, it was SV's great environmental victories. I quote: 15 years of gas power debate is now over. Now cleaning on Kårstø is at best exposed for many years. So we're in a new situation with a government breaking its promises at point-by-point, while the previous government kept exactly what it promised in the Sem statement. It can be documented. So this is a significant distortion of the story at this point and at the others. My question was: is it that the government's environmental policy is hampered by the fact that the Workers' Party is an environmental brake – that is what we see in the matters I have referred to?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e483	This is going to be an endless bike fight about the past, but let me just mention one symbolic matter. The left has been in government for approx. 10 of the last 30 years. It was never possible to produce a law of the land that all naturalists in the Oslo and Oslo areas have fought for continuously. We just did it. We got it done. Maybe there should be a little bit of mutual boasting of such things. So in the case of Mongstad, which is the most important thing. There's a delegation coming from all over the world to Norway because we're doing the most interesting thing in the world about carbon capture and storage. But this is technology that is in its initial phase, which is more difficult than we thought, more difficult than anyone thought, and where it is now fundamentally important both to put in place international principles for how to store, and, above all, to drive the technology. It's going to be long term. It may take longer than we think today, but it's incredibly important that it happens, and Norway is the spearhead in it, not one that kind of hangs a little bit like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e490	Then the President will allow four additional questions – first Ketil Solvik-Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e493	The problem with constantly changing state councils in this government is that one must start at scratch every time in terms of the Council of State's understanding of history. One has promised CO2 cleaning at Kårstø from 2009. Then stumbled one in his own legs. One calls it a conscious swallowstup, because it's much nicer. One has built two mobile gas plants without cleaning in central Norway. One allows gas power offshore without cleaning, but destroys the possibility of building more environmentally friendly gas power stations on land, as we have seen in France. The climate allowance law adopted has been adopted as the Progress Party originally proposed and SV would not have it. The NOx Code introduced is as proposed by the Advance Party and originally proposed by the Right. It is alarming that the Council of State was not even aware that this was originally a Progress Party proposal, when we know that the Government sells climate allowances equivalent to 1⁄4 of Norway's emissions without spending money on climate action directly. When talking about Norway as the world leader in CO2 clean-up, is the Council of States aware that a total of much more has come with a CO2 clean-up project in France, which is much mentioned in the media, but which the Council of State obviously has not got along with it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e518	It has now become clear that terms such as ‘castrated’ and ‘honey’ are not legal. I don't know if "impotent" is allowed. But if the Right and Advance Party – so we had a Bondevik government with a big Progress Party on the side that was a majority – already then knew how to get through the NOx Code, but didn't, what does that illustrate? They knew how it was going to happen, but they just didn't?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e526	The party of progress was not in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e531	No, but you had a clear majority at the time with the Right and that government. I don't understand why you didn't just do it, it wasn't the opposition that prevented you from doing it. We just did it. Now this is going down, and there's a pretty basic difference between talking nice about what you could have done once in the past, and actually getting done things. When it comes to Total in France, I don't know the details. Nothing is better than whether there are parallel projects internationally that are also good. What I can only see is that in all the political talks I have, both in the EU, the United States and elsewhere, Norway is seen as the spear-eating country for carbon capture and storage.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e538	The President will also ask the Council of State to focus on answering the question and to ensure that a dialogue is not given that is direct. All speeches in this Chamber must go through the President. There will be follow-up questions – Peter Skovholt Gitmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e543	Let me draw the attention of the Council of State to what the President just said, namely that the prime job of the Council of State here in the United Kingdom is just to answer questions. Now there have been questions about questions that have not been answered at all, but the Council of State appears to be a master of double communication, where on the one hand reference is made to the SV's programme, and on the other hand sees how it is not followed up by the Government. The truth is that the renewable effort in this country is in stable side rentals. Renewable energy is not on, it has been completely neglected. Wind has been one of the main projects for, among others. The Minister of Oil and Energy, and not a single wind power plant has been built in Norway. But then let me go back to what I asked for last, namely Hagas' clear view that there are forces in the government that are countering the renewable effort. Governments represent SV, Haga represents the Central Party. Who are the forces within the Government that are counter-renewal efforts?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e550	I find that most questions contain at least six different issues, and it is not easy to answer six different things at once. I have answered this question already. I have not recorded any debate in the government where someone has thought that either carbon capture and storage would be carried out or renewable energy would be generated. We both want to, but we have no problem admitting that because of the difficulties in obtaining the green certificates, we haven't come as far as we want on the renewable approach. But we're going to get a lot more over the next four years based on such an agreement. In terms of wind power, there's a lot we have to do. We now need to plan quarterly, and hopefully every time a national plan for which places it is right to have wind power, to avoid local conflicts, as there are around many of the places. Rogaland has made such a plan, and I know that the South Tree Team is in the final phase of creating such a plan. I hope other states can make similar plans, so we can get a national plan for that. And then we have to look at things in the grid so that we can easily get this power into the grid and have it exported, because the very great potential for Norwegian wind power is that we're reducing energy consumption here, but we can export it to the continent.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e557	Line Henriette Holten Heimdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e560	The Christian People's Party is not allergic to the icecream list of the Government, but it doesn't impress us. I'm going to give the Council of State one challenge: to tell the Government why SV in government is for Goliath expansion and for a management plan for the Norwegian Sea that opens up oil extraction in the Arctic, when SV is against this in the programme? Just explain this to us. No other thing I take up now than these two concrete matters, and the council asks us to answer this. Or is this reasoning attached to what the Council of State has now many times said: 'We just did it'?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e566	We made a comprehensive management plan for the Barents Sea. Then it was opened for the expansion of that very field. There was a drag fight, as everyone knows, between different interests. I mean I can be very, very proud of what SV based on well 8 pst. by the votes cast in the political draw. I also notice that the Christian People's Party, which is very high in retrospect, did not address this question – as far as I have registered, I reserve the right to be wrong. But as far as I have registered, the Christian People's Party did not take up this with any alternative proposal when the matter was up in the Storting, so here it is again, I think, boasting on the basis of slightly limited assumptions. This was part of a political compromise, which protected very many important areas in the Barents Sea, but where the balanced balance between expansion and protection opened up to Goliath. Other areas were protected, and all in all it was a great victory for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e573	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e576	I think I know what I'm talking about when I say that behind a non-slip façade it often hides more shades than what comes out. There is one page the Council of State has not been shown in all the answers he has given now. It's like the red-greens are green and kind, and everyone else has been at least not green, and is bad. And when promises are broken, it's to do something that's more valid and beautiful. It's a little bit like this, to use his own image, that he's achieved 100 pst. – a lot of people in the environmental movement may say that one has achieved a hemisphere of zero. I don't mean it – I've chosen to meet the Environmental Council by boasting of him when he does something that's good. And he does very much that's good, there's no doubt about it. But to substantiate everything that's good, it's pretty smart to be honest on everything you don't get, and that's of course a lot of the Environment Council and SV hasn't done on the environmental side. It's better communication than the government has shown so far. So this is the opportunity to nuance this image of who is kind and bad!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e581	It is at least an all right form of debate! Let me say that I have said repeatedly in this debate that I feel we've gotten too little on renewable energy. That has also been said by other representatives of the Government. It's an area where we've been given too little, and the main reason for this was that we couldn't get to the agreement on green certificates. It's an area where there's a lot of mess that we have to do in the years to come. There are also positive things happening in business – I was gone and looked at Statoil’s opening of the first wind turbine outside Stavanger, but we haven’t got it well enough in that area. In many other areas it is ‘give and take’. The management plans for the Barents Sea and for the Norwegian Sea were not identical as I would have them – I don’t think a person in Norway thinks so, but there is a balance between fishing interests, oil interests and environmental protection interests. But all in all, both the Barents Sea and the Norwegian Sea are major steps forward for Norwegian environmental management, so great that it arouses great interest in other countries, which see it as an example of what they can do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e586	The Storting goes on to the next main question, which is from the representative Tord Lien. The President would also like to give Bent Höie the opportunity to ask key questions, but that means that there will be no access to follow-up questions, beyond the additional question that the main questioner gets.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e591	I want to ask my question to Fisheries Minister Helga Pedersen, so we get more in the college. It goes towards a new seismic season, but also towards a new blue-collar and seismic season outside the Lofoten and the West. Despite the fact that the majority of Stortinget has argued that seismic shooting under the direction of the Government will lead to a lower level of conflict than seismic shooting under the direction of the actors in the industry, it has been one for the last two seasons, I say, a cloud-high level of conflict that is completely unexplained in Norwegian petroleum history. The decision of the Directorate of Fisheries to close down large parts of the bluefin tuna north of the West Sea and Lofoten during a period when fuel prices and raw material prices already gave the industry considerable economical challenges caused the catch volume of both sea and bluefin tuna to partially decline. The fleet has been partially compensated, but the land industry has not been compensated, nor does it feel that there has been a good dialogue despite promises of the opposite from the Government. This is an industry that already has low profitability, and that summer time is a good part of its operation based on blue-grass fishing, which was thus shut down. Without this fishing, many installations will have to keep closed during the summer, which in turn negatively affects local seismic activity, since this fleet segment will not be able to deliver the catches in its own ports. That is the question: Will the Council of State take the initiative to compensate that part of the fishing industry, i.e. the receptions, which is able to document delivery failures as a result of the seismic shooting, and which is actually doing a service to the Government, for the losses they suffer during the summer months – often with demands that they also remain open despite the loss of income?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e602	Firstly, since last year's seismic collection outside the Nordic region, there has been a wide-ranging dialogue between the fisheries authorities, the petroleum authorities and the fishing industry in order to improve this year's situation, which is to ensure that there are not so many conflicts. This year it will be done to ensure that the blue herring is fished before and after seismic collection, and this would ensure that fishermen get fished blue herrings disturbed and secured their income, and, of course, that the fishing industry will also receive raw material and supplies to its plants. There should therefore be no need for a separate compensation scheme for the fishing industry. I think we've had a very good dialogue in the last year. Extensive training measures have been carried out for those required to be fishermen on board seismic vessels, and I expect there to be less noise this year than it has been in the past.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e609	That, I think, was a slightly elusive answer. I have also received feedback from large parts of the fishing industry, i.e. those who are fishers, that the dialogue has been much better than it had been in the previous year. But for industry, this is not the case. I think that the bluefin tuna that will happen before the seismic period is going to partly go well, but it may also mean that during the seismic period, farms based on that operation must keep closed, also for seismic fishing. Then I'm very excited to see how much fish are left in these areas after the seismic shooting. I think the reduction in fishing is going to last for weeks, maybe for months after the activity is over. So I'm not quite satisfied with that answer. So: the marine research was to be present and carry out follow-up research, both in 2007 and 2008, according to clear promises from former State Council Odd Roger Enoksen. It was not implemented. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Government does not rotate this to 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e620	It wasn't the government that messed it up in 2008, as the representative Lien here says. The reason why the follow-up research project was not carried out last year was that the boat that was supposed to do it, burned, and it was not the government that lit it, to say it like that! It assumes that this follow-up research project will be carried out this year. I think it's incredibly important that you get that kind of knowledge, so that we have the best decision-making basis to make wise decisions about what's going to happen next in the Lofoten and the West Pole. And I'm a little surprised at the commitment of the Progress Party to precisely what is involved in seismics and replacements for the fishing industry, because seismic studies are now going to be carried out and then make further decisions on the basis of it. After all, the advance party has already pre-concluded that it is necessary to open the scratches and bits in the Lofoten and the Vesterål. In this case, it will result in significantly more seismic studies than that carried out both last year and this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e627	Then Stortinget goes to the last main question, from the representative Bent Höie. The President makes it very clear that there is no way to ask follow-up questions, except for the supplementary question that the main questioner gets.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e632	My question goes to the Minister of Renewal and Administration. Those who have the most important jobs in our society, teachers and nurses, earn 80 cents where employees in the private sector with similar education earn $1. If we are to create the world's best welfare society, education must pay off, even in the public sector. New estimates from the SSB show that we will need 40,000 new annual work in the health and care sector in 2030. The Social and Health Directorate states that 20-50 pst. by residents in nursing homes are undernourished. Over 40 pst. by their employees are unskilled. 20 pst. by residents of hospitals in Norway today are being mistreated. The answer to the quality challenges of public services is to reward those with education, well enough, and recruit new people for these most important jobs. Therefore, the Right has proposed a pool of skills, or an equal pay pot, as the Equal Pay Commission calls it, which represents a pay gap for those with higher education in the public sector in addition to the wage-earning framework. We are therefore concerned when a reader reads that the SV leader Kristin Halvorsen at the LO Congress ends the ranks of the men in the LO behind the low-wage strategy instead of taking up the fight for women with education in the public sector. Equal pay in 2009 and 2010 is about raising them with education in the public sector. That's where women with education work. Is the Council willing to challenge LO to tackle the fight for women with higher education in the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e646	At least I am very happy that Right now ends up with an old both SV requirement and red-green requirement, simply equal pay and – for that matter – equality in the public sector. It is in the public sector that we see that one has challenges related to equal pay when it concerns educational groups, but one also has major challenges in the private sector. Within travel, service provision and service industries, we also see that there are to a large extent women with low wages in these jobs. So one has a commitment here both in the private and in the public sector. I also don't think the representative Höie should be concerned about the SV leader. The SV leader has been very clear that this is our main concern in the election campaign for the cottage. SV will have a compulsory equal pay plan, and a central part of such a plan is to follow up the Equal pay Commission when it applies to the State Equal pay pot. This is an intervention in wage negotiations, and we're going to take that seriously. For this reason, we have said that we are totally dependent on the fact that the social partners themselves want to prioritize it. We want to contribute funding from the government, but how the money is to be distributed between the groups, we have great respect for the fact that the social partners are involved in the negotiations. We have a different view of this than the Right, which largely wants local negotiations and no central negotiations, no central ones at all. How to achieve the Right wants to achieve is a big question for me. What we've done in the government statement I have led is just to use the central figures to put the money into the professions where the women are, and in the payroll frame, to give strong leadership to local authorities, and to provide leadership for women in maternity leave to have their share of wage developments, in order to achieve additional wage compensation between women and men in the state sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e655	With the strategy now presented by the Council of State in charge, one will never achieve the objectives of raising the salaries of women in the public sector with higher education. With that strategy, which also the power investigator High Skee and the Equal Pay Commission have fixed, the LO will be a plug, and the Workers' Party will stand next to and hello. The question to the Council of State is, because this is also about political leadership, and this is perhaps the most important task we are facing in the years to come, namely to recruit people with higher education into the public sector to ensure quality: will the Council of State, now, say that the Government will take political responsibility in this area and say that it will establish a pool of skills outside the framework of wage-setting in order to ensure a pay gap for higher-educated public employees?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e662	When it comes to the goal of equal pay, at least this government can welcome Right after, and SV was the first party that went out with a crystal clear support for the proposal of the Equal pay Commission. This government has nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to equality and equal pay. We put down the Equal Pay Commission, which was exactly the basis for us having a debate on it. We got a number on the table, and we got some analysis that told us something about evolution. Two of the three government parties have followed up concretely on the proposal from the Commission. The third party, the Labour Party, has a slightly different attitude to it, but also supports the proposal for equal pay. This will be an important part of new government negotiations when we win the fall option. There's every reason for the voters to support us. In addition to that, we have done a great deal of work with extended maternity leave, with the ignition of self-employed workers, and other things that help to ensure equality, which, in turn, is an important part of ensuring greater equality and increasing pay for women in work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e667	The oral question time is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e672	There will be some changes in the set list of questions, and the President will show them in the context of the list that has been distributed to the representatives. The President proposed that the proposed changes in today's Question Time be approved - that is agreed. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Development on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who has a history of disease. Question 2, from the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, has been withdrawn. Question 3, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Development on behalf of the Minister for Defence, who has been removed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e688	This question, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Development on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e691	The question is: ‘More than one major aerodrome in the country is affected by conditions that may restrict or reduce traffic. Safety zones are required at the airports of Stavanger, Trondheim, Kristiansund, Harstad/Narvik, Kristiansand and Ålesund, where Avinor’s lack of money will result in shorter runways. For Bergen airport, the planned deployment is for the execution of mandatory security measures stopped by the Defence. These conditions give aviation a step backwards instead of development. What will the Council of State do to solve these problems?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e700	I thank you for the question of an important matter. Avinor’s societal mission is to operate a nationwide network of airports and an overall air navigation service. Avinor shall itself finance the activities as far as possible through its own revenues and internal co-financing. Avinor is facing major investment in the next few years and has challenges in financing all the investments. The challenges have been exacerbated by the financial crisis, both by the fall in the number of passengers and by the difficulty of raising loans in the private market. Avinor was transformed into a public limited-liability company in 2003 and is therefore responsible for its own investments. The company is now faced with demanding balances between making investments in projects that ensure the long-term financial sustainability of the company and projects that are necessary for the company to carry out its social mission in the short term. Avinor has chosen to postpone security investments at several airports. This may lead to the imposition by the Air Safety Authority of compensatory measures to maintain safety levels, which may lead to reduced transport standards at these airports. The Government will indicate that the Soria Moria statement states that the aeroplane structure shall be maintained. For the Government, it is important to stress that measures aimed at the safety of travellers must be taken first and that Avinor must be guided by clear guidance from the owner. In the past, the Minister of Transport has notified a big deal about the activities of Avinor this spring. In its work on the Communication, the Government is going through the framework conditions of Avinor in depth. As a result, Avinor was granted the State loan to Oslo Airport AS in 2009 of nearly 400 million. kr for the 2009 revised national budget. This will improve the liquidity of Avinor that can be used for investment purposes in 2009. The government will come back with further assessments in the ownership message.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e720	Thanks for the answer. Let me first make it clear that in the case of Kristiansand, the situation is very special. The reduced runway length requirement may result in normal aeroplanes actually not being able to use the aerodrome. The Avinor message, to which the Council of State refers in its reply, has not yet come to the Stortinget. It's one of the government issues that's delayed, so here there's no clear solution. There is a lack of money in the state company Avinor, which is the basis of this case, which may lead to a whole of 46 scheduled airports in Norway having changed operational criteria. That means you have to reduce weight for both landing and take-off. That means fewer passengers in the planes. It also means that you may have to reject regular scheduled flights that are used in today's operations. Is this the aviation policy of this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e733	I'm going to be very careful to go into the answer to something that's not my field of study. But when Avinor is converted into a public limited liability company, it is precisely because the right balances between different good purposes are to be made within the company. It is the very purpose of doing something about it to a public limited liability company. It is Avinor himself who has to balance the different purposes with each other in order to find the right measures. It also makes it possible to find solutions where the problems are. It's true, as the questioner says, that there are challenges in Kristiansand. But the list also applies to other airports: Bergen Airport, Flesland, Sandane Airport, Anda, Kristiansund Airport, Kvernberget, Røst Airport and Tromsø Airport, where there are also challenges. Measures that can be said to be relevant are those that were mentioned: lower emphasis on aeroplanes and slightly lower take-offs. But all of this is Avinor who has to decide within his budgets.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e740	This answer is a description of the total discharge. This is a state company that has received safety requirements imposed on the authority, and it is 100 pst. user-funded. When traffic goes down, the economy of the company is weakened. Should not the State itself finance mandatory safety measures in domestic Norwegian aviation, as is done by the State in other transport sectors, such as the railway sector? Will the State do something in the short term, or will the State only observe that 46 airports in Norway are hit by a lack of money in a state company and passively record the destruction of the traffic base and the reduction of traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e749	I also think Arne Sortevik has a certain understanding that it would be wrong for me to go thoroughly into answers in this area, which is not my field, and where there are only a few days, perhaps weeks, before the Minister for Transport makes a very thorough report on this area. However, on the basis of the international standards applicable to aviation security, it is always necessary to give priority to different measures. It's not like you can just spend money. Choices must be made. What's the right thing to do? Which measures provide the best assurance, given costs? The type of balances is always the most correct one for those who are closest to the problems. I think it is much safer that these kinds of balances be made by Avinor than that they should be made by big business representatives – and not least by government councils that don't have very much on the subject.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e759	From the representative Linda C. Hofstad Helleland to the Minister for Research and Higher Education: ‘The Hedmark High School has submitted a report showing a substantial distribution of bias between the basic appropriations of higher education institutions. For example, the University of Southern Trøndelag is coming. approx. 25 pst. In contrast to comparable schools, even when correcting differences in student provision and size of schools. Can the Council of State confirm that a review of the key for the allocation of basic appropriations to higher education institutions will be part of the investigation currently taking place in the Ministry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e767	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e773	This question, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Defence, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Development on behalf of the Minister for Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e776	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Defence the following questions, which will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘For many HV districts, there will be few or no exercises for HV soldiers in the current year. This is a dangerous development, and continues to do so, Homeland will die out as a defense. This alarm message comes, among other things: from HV-05 in Hedmark/Oppland. Does the Council of State worry about this development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e785	I thank you for the question. In recent years, home security has been undergoing a major and extensive transformation. The implementation of the quality reform and, in particular, the establishment of the response forces means that Home Protection is today much better adapted and relevant to the current challenges than the situation was just a few years ago. Personnel from Heimevernet also make a significant contribution to Norway’s operations abroad on a voluntary basis. This development is both correct and necessary and is a follow-up to several long-term defence plans, to which the Storting has joined. In the new long-term plan, the Government is proposing to increase the defence appropriations by 800 million. kr. At the same time, resources shall be released through internal efficiency improvement and changes in the structure and number of bases of defence. This is a process that takes time. The economic impact and an overall balance between organisation and resources are therefore not fully achieved until the end of the long term. Until the planned resource release measures are sufficiently effective, it has been suggested that the training and exercise activity in Home Security will be reduced for a short period of time. This has been further explained by the Government in the 2009 defence budget. However, the exercise and training activity related to the effort forces is a high priority in 2009. This has been done to ensure that the development of the strength is continued in line with the quality reform. Among other things, it is planned that the number of personnel and the number of training days for the response force in 2009 will be the highest since the strength was established. In the 2009 budget, the Government has clearly indicated that the training and exercise activity in the Home Security shall be stepped up beyond the period. There is therefore no reason for the representative’s concern that the Home Protection system will become confused over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e798	I thank the Council of State for a supplementary answer. It was said in the answer that the appropriations will increase by 800 million. kr in the future, but it is not in proportion to what was presented in the revision, where the Home Protection system was actually reduced by nearly one million. Home protection has been a major change, from 83,000 men a few years ago, down to 50,000 and now 45,000 men today. The same applies to the number of districts that have been reduced from 18 to today’s 12th – I think it is. When you see that the number of soldiers outside of Homeland Protection is only 18 000, you realize that Homeland Protection is a big part of the defense we have. What I'm really afraid of, and I think many others are afraid of, too, is that the great local knowledge that Homeland Security has is going to disappear. The individual soldier knows where the individual bridge is, where a special building is, etc. With the development that we've seen, with a decline in the number of soldiers and home security districts, a lot of that local knowledge disappears. When you don't get practice, this looks scary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e807	I share Mr. Bredvold's opinion that the Home Office has a lot of local expertise and much to contribute. I don't have much to add to the answer I've given, other than that it's clear that Home Security is in a completely new military situation where it's planned less for invasion defence than before. More thought is given to terrorist actions, climate change threats and contributions to Norwegian operations abroad, where Home Security provides a base of knowledgeable people. So the Home Office has got a lot of new problems. It appears that there will be a slight reduction in the exercise activity of Home Protection for a short period of time, but that in the longer term, additional appropriations will be maintained and strengthened.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e814	I thank the Council once again for the answer. In Eastlanden on Monday, May 11, this year, the head of HV-05 – i.e. Hedmark and Oppland – said Nils Arne Skaret: ‘This year no HV soldiers will be trained in Hedmark and Uppland. – The development is dangerous. If this continues, the Home Office will die out." It is clear that when a colonel lieutenant — in this case the head of HV-05, which consists of about one. 3 500 soldiers – looking at the development that Homeland Protection is in, and it's not just him who says it, I get many such messages from other Homeland districts around Norway, we have to take such signals seriously as big-scale representatives, and the Council of State. That's serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e826	Yes, of course, you should listen to a colonel who is raising concerns. Fortunately, we have freedom of expression in Norway, and it is only positive that military leaders also take part in the debate on what is a right and sensible defence policy for Norway. I can't vouch for that claim, as I'm not an expert on this. Now, as we can see from the figures here, there's a short-term decline, but there's going to be an increase. And, as the answer says, it is planned that the number of personnel and the number of days of training for the response forces in 2009 will be the highest since the force was established. The exercise and training activity related to the effort forces is a high priority in 2009. Whether there are regional variations in this picture, I am not right to respond to it – then almost the Minister of Defence must come and give an even more precise answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e836	My question is to the Minister for the Environment and Development: «The stock for you is 39 young people according to the predatory game agreement. Last year it bred 51 yerv, an overperformance of 30 pst. According to the agreement, in the predatory game region 1, there should be no youirs. In Luster, the population of yours is nevertheless high and poses great challenges for both the outdoor industries and the wild rain in the West Jotunheim. Luster is in many ways the gateway to the West, and the establishment of a Yew tribe that can open the whole West to you. What will the Council of State do to ensure that the Yews don't get foothold in Luster?'
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e845	I want to thank you for the question. Robbery is an important and valuable part of the Norwegian natural diversity, and as is well known, predatory game management has been thoroughly treated in Stortinget. In Norway, it is clear that we will have 39 juveniles of yerv, 65 juveniles of gaupe, 15 juveniles of bear and three juveniles of wolf in the management area of wolf. One of the main principles of predatory game management is that predatory and land-based grazing is to be land-differed, which means that grazing and predatory game are given different priority in different parts of the country. For you, it is among other things. in the case of predatory game region 1, the target for juveniles has not been established. The region includes Sogn and Fjordane, Hordaland, Rogaland and West Agder. I would like to stress that the principle of area differentiation does not mean that areas which are priority areas for grazing are at all times free of predatory game or that grazing animals are to be excluded in areas where predatory game is given priority. Jerv and other predators have a high migration capacity, which means that at times they will also stay in priority pastures. The geographic location of Luster means that from time to time it will wander into you from nearby areas, no matter what administrative boundaries we draw on the map. So, in the future, it has to be assumed that there will be you in the area. At the same time, I would like to clarify that the threshold for the felling of predatory game is low in areas where grazing takes precedence over predatory game, as in the municipality of Luster. In Luster, since 2005, there have been three juveniles of yours. In all of these, dams and cubs have been taken out and killed by the State's nature oversight. In addition, a number of individual animals are fielded with the use of helicopters. In 2009, eleven animals were collected in Luster by two hi-takes and five individual animals by decision of the Directorate of Nature Management. This shows that the environmental management already implements the necessary measures in line with the management objectives for region 1. On a country-by-country basis, hiccups and exceptional falls have caused the real number of juveniles before grazing to be very close to the stock target. In 2007, after exceptional withdrawals, there were 40 young people, while in 2008 there were 41 young people. This is equivalent to a high level of administrative precision, and it is therefore not relevant to talk about over-fulfilling the national stock target for you.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e860	I fully agree with the Council of State on one thing, that a border on a map has little relevance to predators. Then you can ask yourself, ‘ Shouldn't that in itself indicate that you should have taken a revision of these limits that you have, after all, set. I am so pleased that the Council of State admits – I should say – how many animals have been shot in Luster. For DN – the Directorate of Nature Management – before last year’s season, it was claimed that there were a maximum of two animals in the area, and 11 had been shot – so it would be an over-fulfill of 550 pst. I'm assuming that the Council of State would be very satisfied in a number of other areas. But there's also another area where predators are out of the zone they're going to be in, and it's Osdalsfög the municipality of Rendalen. It is clearly established that the young wolf will only take place within the management area of the wolf. Will the Council of State do anything on that occasion?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e869	I'm sorry, but I didn't understand the last question. Can the President allow Tord Lien to repeat the question – was it about the Osdals?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e874	Go ahead, Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e877	Thank you, President. I'm sorry. So I'm asking about the Osdals, which is documented breeding far beyond the management area of the wolf. What will the Council of State do?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e884	That's exactly what I thought the question was about, since the initial question was about you. But don't do that. First of all, I think when it comes to borders, I can use the old statement for Heide Steen, that he saw no boundaries under water. I don't think you guys and wolves see all the boundaries we draw on maps either. I think we just have to realize that. So it's not possible to be absolutely precise. But the answer I gave about you guys is that it's working, that we take out exactly what we're saying we're going to do according to the predatory agreement, and that we're actually finding the right balance between it being predators, which almost all the Norwegians want in Norwegian nature, and that you can drive grazing and feel safe in the districts. In the case of the Osdalsflock, it is a matter for consideration in the department. I can hardly answer that in Stortinget until the matter has been resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e893	I guess the last thing I have some degree of understanding for. The case has been pending for so long, despite the fact that the message has been that the predatory settlement is to be settled. The representatives of the centre party are moving around saying that we have to deal with the predatory settlement when they are challenged on the stock targets. In this case, however, it is clear that as long as this debate is taking place, there is no automatic means for the predatory settlement to be fixed, as the predatory settlement clearly states that tiger breeding outside the management area should not take place. In this respect, it may be close to assuming that the rapprochement will be firm, almost only rhetoric used by some of the government’s support players when appropriate. Then the question is, isn't it time for us to actually review the entire predatory settlement?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e898	No, in my opinion, predatory policies are sensible policies, which we can safely include in the next period. Of course, there will always be a need for continuous adjustment, updating and looking at what has worked well, and what has not worked well. This is a settlement that has been supported in this period by all parties except the Advance Party, and it reflects what I call the silent majority, the silent majority – it was Nixon's vice president who found that expression. It is a large majority of Norwegians who want predators in Norwegian nature and who also want to be able to operate sheep farming in District Norway and to feel safe there. We have to deal with both. That's what the predator deal is about. The Osdals are a balance between the fact that this is outside the wolf zone, as the questioner says, and that on the other hand, it is not likely that this flock will cause damage in the area it has acquired a revir.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e908	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘Five regional children’s homes are now established. Large distances to children’s homes mean that both courts and police use the new offer too little. The reason is lack of staff and high travel costs. In concrete terms, this means that many children do not get the coordinated follow-up of the children’s homes were meant to give. In order to resolve the problem related to the Court of Justice, will the Council of State consider a system of permanent judges associated with regional children’s housing to conduct judicial hearings and to ambulate them to the relevant court when the case is being dealt with?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e917	The answer is, yes, we'll evaluate that. I am pleased that the representative Aspaker raises a question about children's housing. It is stated in the Government's statement that children should be met in a much better way in the criminal justice system than we have traditionally done. That's also why we wrote into the Soria Moria statement that we should consider establishing one children's home. During these years we now have behind us, we have not only ‘assessed’ to create one, but we have created five – in Bergen, Hamar, Kristiansand, Trondheim and Tromsø. I'm very happy about that. It is something that, in my opinion, will benefit many children, but it is not least an example of how to get more professionals to deal with when people are in difficult situations, and that criminal law alone does not get a monopoly on how to meet children who are being abused – because we need another alternative. We need other ways out for those kids. But we also need the criminal law responses – and we do. I have asked for an overview of how many children have been at the children's houses in Norway, and this gives reason to pay tribute to the children's houses, the police and the courts that follow closely with the children's houses. For example, the children’s home in Bergen had: in 2008 153 child referee hearings. There's a lot of kids. So far this year, 97 court hearings have been held in Bergen, which make their numbers rise. At Hamar, 70 court hearings were held in 2008 – so far in 2009, 55. So you're in good shape. The volume, the volume of it, is actually larger and higher than what I dared hope for, taking into account the problems that you have in view of the fact that there are no children's homes in every municipality in Norway. In some places, children must also be taken into account. It may be long to travel from the middle of Hålogaland up to Tromsø. It may also be a long way to travel to the Hamar Children's House, which makes it difficult for us to reconstruct some holes. I've said before, and I'd like to repeat it here in Stortinget, that we should aim to add to the structure we have today. I have particularly pointed to Stavanger and Ålesund, and not least that we should get the children's house in Oslo operational so that we can meet a larger number of children who need good help. When I answer the question so clearly and clearly whether we will assess the issue of more firm judicial relations, it is also about letting the judges go. I am familiar with the fact that, among other things, in Kristiansand District Court, such a scheme is considered. Kristiansand District Court takes care of the judicial hearings for a larger area, so that the envoy on Lister does not enter Kristiansand when he is going to take a court hearing. I cannot see any consideration, either of a legal security nature or of a practical nature, that would speak against allowing such practical solutions to be established. I know that there is also dialogue between the Police Directorate, the Court of Justice and the Children's Houses about this. So this is the relationship we have to evaluate when we now see how the children's houses will still work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e931	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer, which I am very pleased with. Clearly, there is a strong cross-political commitment in the Storting in order for more action to be taken, to which the parties have also committed themselves through the national meetings this spring. Children’s homes are one of the measures at the top of the list. It is also the case that if this is really to become a nationwide offer, we need to eliminate the arguments you have today to some extent in order not to use the children’s homes. I fully agree with the Council of State that it is desirable that more children should be able to come to one door, so that they do not tell their story many times. At the same time, I also recognise that there may be arguments between them that the children's houses should not be used anyway. Now, when the Council of State is so clear about this with regard to the court, does he see that there may be other ways to deal with it with the police, because the police are using some of the same arguments for not using the children's houses?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e942	I believe it is the child’s best that must weigh the most – not the judge’s best and the police’s best. That's why I've said in several contexts that I actually believe that some of the actors have to find themselves in having to travel a little if it relieves the pressure on the children. But we're going to be open to practical solutions that help us get a good deal of order around this. The government has also set up its own special teams for this type of issue. Obviously, if we see practical solutions, we're willing to evaluate it. I am also very pleased, as the representative of Aspaker said, that there has been a cross-political pressure and a cross-political consensus in building up such offers. What I have registered is that it took a red-green government to establish the children's houses. Then there is also a red-green government to develop the scheme in the best possible way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e949	The council must only admit that he came to the table a little bit, because there were completed investigations. It was just a matter of realising the plans that were in the department – but now let it lie. It is important for me to get a confirmation from the Council of State that there is now going to be a children's home in Oslo during the year, as foreseen in the budget. So I think it's a pleasure, as it's suggested here, that maybe there'll be more children's houses – both in Ålesund, Stavanger and several places – to actually get the system nationwide, that we shouldn't settle down on the five houses that are established today, is what we're going to have at the seventh and last. We live in a country that has some distance challenges. Even if you eliminate it with costs etc., it is clear that there may be few crews so that someone has to be gone all day due to assignments that take only a short time when you are at the children's home itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e956	First of all, we did not come to the table when it came to the children’s houses. There were many thoughts and plans around it, but the main challenge was to get propositions merged and to get more departments to work together, and the economy. We chose from the government's side to prioritize it – not great tax relief, etc. to those who are already well off. It was a very clear political choice. If the previous government couldn't have established these houses, it wouldn't be worse. The second is that we aim to open a children's home in Oslo. We're working hard on it. I've had a meeting with the police director today on this. I've also had meetings with the police chief in the past, so I hope we can do that in 2009, as we have suggested. With regard to the other places in Norway — Stavanger and Ålesund — I have pointed out that there will be some holes, especially where long distances are involved. It is a budgetary question that we have to come back to in future budgets. Then I'm also a little concerned that we shouldn't let the system grow too fast. We have to be able to see how this works, but we're on our way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e969	I have this question to the State Council of Storberget: ‘Crise centres are safe places of residence for people in an acute crisis situation. Crisis centres also serve as a temporary place of residence for persons who are exposed to trafficking in human beings prior to their residence or repatriation. I have become aware that some victims of human trafficking have remained in crisis centres for a long time. This is an unfortunate situation, both for the victims themselves and for other users of the crisis centres. What will the Council of State do to ensure housing for persons exposed to trafficking in human beings?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e978	First of all, I would like to say that this is perhaps one of the important questions about how we meet those who come to Norway to run prostitution, and we have pointed out that we need to find ways out of prostitution. It is easy to resort to laws and special appropriations against the police and special projects, which are important, but at the same time this is one of the measures that really puts us to the test. I have today tried to find out how many people are in the crisis centres today. The ROSSA project, which the representative of Dørum knows very well, has informed me that it does so by Today, there are probably just over 40 people in crisis centres. Six-seven of them have been there for a long time. We now see that a good part of the measures that the previous government agreed to initiate, and that we have chosen to continue, among other things. through the ROSA project in Oslo, works for many of these girls -- maybe better than we expected. But there are challenges, especially in terms of housing. What I want to say about actions is that I believe the ROSSA project, which was launched by the then Dørum State Council, is a very important project. It's targeted, reasonable, it works well, and it's been evaluated well. That's what we want to keep going, and we've also added that to keep going. It's absolutely crucial. Then, in the autumn of 2007, there was an application from the City Mission of the Church – namely Nadheim, who, in my opinion, is doing an exemplary job in this area – together with the ProCentre and the ROSA Centre, to the Ministry of Justice to support the establishment of housing with a follow-up offer to victims of trafficking in human beings. There is part of Action 10 in the plan that we published, «Stop trafficking in human beings». This project and the application have been met. That resulted in the opening of Laura's house in April this year. The centres have great names – Rosa and Laura. They may be named after many people who may have been central to this. Laura's House is in many ways the answer from the Government to the representative Dørum's question. It is an offer made specifically for victims of trafficking in human beings. Not only are dwellings offered here, but there is also a 24-hour follow-up offer with individual action plans for each resident. It has been committed to close cooperation with other relevant professionals, and the operational responsibility of Laura's House has been delegated to Nadheim, an establishment that has many years of experience in this. So I'd just like to say in the end that the Stortinge has granted 10 million. to follow-up for volunteers and other actors, in particular those girls who are in trafficking in human beings and in prostitution. We're about to distribute these funds now. For us, the question from the representative Dørum helps to put extra pressure on measures that can help to settle. Then I'm not just thinking about housing, but when we in the department now distribute this money, I want to stress the need for measures that can help you get into the usual social framework, that is. employment measures, educational measures and other measures. Because that's often a prerequisite for being able to get their own place of residence. We're going to spend that money well. There are funds that will be used in addition to what is now mentioned, including: to Laura's house, and as I hope can get a certain geographical spread, so that we can get some action in Stavanger, Bergen and elsewhere where we know that it's doing good work criminally, but also for these girls.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e996	I thank the Council of State for a very thorough response, an answer that clearly showed that the heart of the Council of State beats, and what my heart beats for, goes in the same direction. I'm glad that the Rosa project, as I know, works that way the Council of State now confirms. My main concern probably concerns those who have been there for a long time, as the Council of State says, six–seven people are. I perceive as him, that Laura's House and Nadheim, after Laura Nadheim, are an excellent measure, and I myself was gone in the forerunner of this almost nine years ago. That it has now been established in this way is very good. I also share the Council's view of spending money to follow this up and get to a fixed solution, whether it's education, work or housing. So my supplementary comment is just the following: I assume that the Council of State will follow up on this, so that all the things that must be of plugs in the system are followed up, because I believe that's the purpose of the answer that the Council of State has given me.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1005	Yes, I think that's an obvious point here, because we can grant money and create projects. But if we're going to get people to make a real shift in life, it doesn't just help with an empty home. A prerequisite for getting a dwelling is often that the work or education offer is in place. I mean with all due respect to announce that one of our main challenges is to get more professionals to talk across the ministerial boundaries. That is why I am pleased that in the case of Laura's House, there are several departments that are in and coordinate it – the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, the Ministry of Justice, etc. I'm in and I'm pulling it off. There aren't so many people we're talking about overall, so this rich society here has to be able to deal with this challenge wisely. In fact, it is much more about more actors looking at them than about budgetary issues. So I've decided that we're going to start to have an overview of how many people are sitting in the crisis centers at any time, so that we can intervene when we see that it goes too long.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1012	The Council of State is at the heart of this: how do you get people across institutions and levels of government to cooperate? A few years ago, I helped with the Ministry of Justice's money to hire child protection workers at police stations in Oslo, to get something going that the Municipality of Oslo later took over. I hope the Council of State is either inspired by this idea, or other ideas, and does what he can to ensure that there are some in the state system that at least in a start-up phase can help to be good losers for those people who are going to find the foothold that the Council of State is talking about. You get rid of it on this path of life where things are going to come into place, I think you also have to look at some of the culture that makes the levels of administration work together. I'm simply leaving behind the hard reflection of this life school. It wasn't after the textbook to hire a child protection consultant on a police budget, but that's what was actually going to do to get a solution in the end. I'm just leaving the idea at the Council of State, because I see that we have equal perception, not only in terms of the ideal, but also in terms of putting it into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1021	We are in complete agreement here. I believe that many of the success projects we see include: in the direction of my own department, it's not where we've necessarily sucked in as much money as possible, but it's where we've managed to get other actors out in society to join in and pull the load. The child protection workers at police stations are a very good example of this. It has not only helped the police to do a better job, it has also contributed to raising child protection in terms of the need to be alert to a part of the problem. The children's homes that are established are a very good example of cross-professional work, and we see that many kids already report that you feel that you are being met in a completely different way. It's not about the money in it. Something has to be at the bottom, but it is primarily that you don't have to go from door to door. With regard to this work, especially for women who work in prostitution, I am convinced that there is something that poses challenges for girls who come here to the country, get a reflection period, it's just to find out in this society, whether it's in private or in public. We have to help them with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1033	My question to the Minister of Knowledge is: ‘It is the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge to provide all students in this country with the training they require. Educational materials adapted to the knowledge promise Sami has been a lack of product. In oral Question Time on 30 April 2008, the Prime Minister replied that Sami children are entitled to learning material in Sami, and on 7 May 2008 the Minister of Knowledge replied in writing that § 9-3 of the Training Act requires schools to have access to the necessary teaching materials. What will the educational curriculum situation in the Sami school now be at school start to fall, school year 2009/2010?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1042	The textbook situation of Sami speaking elephants has been a challenge for a long time. There is still a lot to be done before everything is as it should be. because the missing capacity is present in the Sámi publishing house. For the Ministry of Knowledge, it is important to ensure that the Sami-speaking students are taught the same quality as other elephants, and that there is good, continuous teaching material in accordance with the Knowledge Lift. It is the Sameeting that is responsible for stimulating the production of Sami learning material, and annually funds are made available to it over the state budget. On top. 223 Sámi educational administration in 2008 raised about 32 million. kr. Of this sum, the Sameting used 15 million. kr for teaching material. This year, there's something over 33 million. kr. In addition, the Ministry of Knowledge in 2009 has set up a pre-project on digital learning material in Sami with DKK 250000. After consultations, there is still agreement that the responsibility for Sami learning material should lie in Sametinget. The Ministry of Knowledge has been in dialogue with the Sameeting on the coverage of Sami learning material. The Ministry has stated that it is important to have a full curriculum in the fields of education adapted to the current curriculum, the Sami Knowledge Lift. In order to quickly meet the needs of students for whole learning, one has to some extent to rely on the translation of good learning from non-Samian languages. In a short time, a working group will be set up to see if it is possible to streamline the production of learning material. The term of office of the Group, including its members, is now being worked on. the working group will be asked to submit proposals for changes in order to make the development of learning material in accordance with the framework plan for kindergarten and the knowledge promise Sami become more effective. The Sameting has developed its own strategic plan for Sami learning material for the period 2009–2012. For immediate action, the Sameting has allowed extra resources to translate into Sami by existing teachings. I mean, budget-inner. S. No 12 for 2008-2009, the Ministry of Knowledge and Education and Research, in the Parish Church, Education and Research Committee, asked the Ministry of Knowledge to consider supervision in order to ensure that the rights of Sami elephants here, including: for teaching material, to be fulfilled. In the 2009 letter of allocation to the Directorate of Education, the Ministry has followed up the comment by writing: ‘The Ministry asks the Directorate to carry out in 2009 the monitoring of the rights of Sami students under the Training Act, including access to learning material, by county municipalities and municipalities.’ As I see it, there is reason to believe that supervision will show that the situation is still not good enough, and that there is a need for dialogue and follow-up between the Sameting, the Municipalities and the Central Governments, both in terms of capacity, scope, competence and priorities in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1062	I thank you for the answer, and I have a follow-up question. This is a matter I have focused on countless times in this growing period, and since this is the very last ordinary questioning period in this period, I want to bring forward this important matter one last time. As a longtime teacher in the Sami school and with their own children who have been students there, I know too well what this is all about. The left has wanted to spend several million more dollars in its alternative budgets for Sami learning material production throughout this process, but unfortunately this has not been supported by the other parties. In the autumn of 2009, national tests shall be carried out in Sami for students with Sami as their first language. In general, what benefit from national tests does the Minister of Knowledge see for students who in this case have been missing and without education much of their schooling?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1073	The benefits of national tests and other ways of monitoring knowledge are present, even if the training has not been satisfactory, because it is important to have a precise knowledge of the situation and the benefits of learning. The unfortunate thing is not because the training situation has not been good enough because of lack of learning material. This is, as the representative says, a very serious problem that has been over time, and I shouldn't overlook the fact that money can have something to do with it. However, there are well-established and well-documented problems that are also very central: the lack of good planning, the production of books that are not used and the lack of cooperation between the various actors to ensure that books are published. That's exactly why we've implemented several actions, which I've mentioned here. They will be supervised by us, and the Sameting has taken immediate action after dialogue with the Ministry of Knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1080	I thank you for your answer, and I have one last question. Since 2005, there has been a dramatic decline in the number of Sami pupils in primary schools throughout the country. In two years, the number of Sami students has fallen by 26 pst. This, of course, has to do with the great lack of access to teaching material, and for too long it has been, but it is not well enough to facilitate it in other ways for those who want, and are entitled to, education in the field. Among other things, in Oslo, it has been too difficult for students who want to learn Sami, to be able to do so. Education has often been added to another school and to the other side of the city, which of course also affects the teaching of other subjects. What will the Minister of Knowledge now do to make it easier for students who want to have either North, South or Lulesamian wherever they live in the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1089	All the elephants in Norway are entitled to training in Sami, and we have the criterion for how that right should be put into practice. They give good dishes to the students in my view. But there may be different reasons why there will be fewer elephants that have Sami. I'm not going to ignore the fact that it may also have to do with the learning material situation, but I have to make it clear that it is up to the individual municipality to facilitate that right to be fulfilled in a good way. We're busy following it up. So I've gone through the steps that have to do with the educational situation. I agree that it is extremely important to do something about it quickly, and that is why we work closely with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1094	That leaves the question mark. – The representative Per Sandberg has asked to ask a topical urgent question to the Council of State, Dag Terje Andersen, and it has been agreed. Then Per Sandberg will have the floor to ask his question. The number is from three to five minutes, a maximum of five minutes. Then the Council of State will answer the question – perhaps a little more liberal, if he wants to. Then other party groups will have a brief comment, and then the Council of State finally. This is in accordance with the second paragraph of Article 37a of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1105	On the basis of the statement we woke up to today early, I chose to take the initiative and use Section 37(a), because I believe the situation is very serious. For a long time we have been almost warned from the police security service that some people have come to Norway with an unknown agenda. Today, therefore, we are getting evidence through a large look-up in the Evening Post that a number of people with direct and indirect links with the Taliban have actually been given residence in Norway. I see that in the UDI guidelines, there is a separate chapter on the Taliban, and what is to be taken into account is that those related to the Taliban will be allowed to stay in Norway. In itself, it is critical to leave the UDI almost to interpret these guidelines so that anyone can stay in Norway. I also allow myself to quote briefly from the Evening Post. Four examples of people who have had a strong relationship with the Taliban and who have stayed in Norway have been identified: A person informed ‘participating in the arrest and torture of local commanders fighting the Taliban’. - I've had a stay in Norway. Another person applied ‘for a stay in October 2003 on the grounds that his family was responsible for a number of killings’. - I've had a stay in Norway. A third person ‘applied for asylum in 2003. Grounded asylum application that ‘his family lived well under the Taliban’. — Has stayed in Norway. A fourth person sought ‘asyl because he feared being killed after helping seven Taliban prisoners escape from a prison’. - I've had a stay in Norway. I also record that one of our soldiers, a veteran, who is the only one who dares to stand up, says in this context that the “most veterans are afraid to stand up”. In the defence, they are ‘warning that reactions may occur, inter alia from external environments’ in Norway. So in such a situation, UDI and the sitting government will give more and more stops. It is suggested that there are seven people so far, but no one knows how many there are. For the Progress Party, this is totally unacceptable. I also believe that both in relation to the safety of Norway and the safety of our soldiers, there is another serious issue in this picture, namely that the asylum institution is being powdered to those degrees. The intentions of the asylum institute are reversed from having the opportunity to provide protection for persecuted persons to protect those who persecute, and I don't think Norway can be familiar with that at all. So, even if the need cannot be demonstrated, people who have at least indirectly killed Norwegian soldiers and who almost daily fight against Norwegian soldiers who are simply out in peace. These persons are open to stay in Norway. There is evidence that Norwegian immigration policy has been totally pushed aside from what was intended. And you keep using international conventions. The European Convention on Human Rights is used in such a way that the Convention is also seen in a light that is not respected. When the PST has warned for a longer period of time, it is now time to ask the Council of State: Will the Government now review the guidelines, in particular the chapter on the Taliban and other people who have been involved in terrorist activities, and edit them in such a way that they are prevented from staying in Norway? Will the Council of State and the Government also ensure that we take control and control of the UDI and UNE in such a way that we get the results and wishes we have in relation to providing residence in Norway, namely to protect the people who need it and to combat terrorism, which is one of the major goals that Norway has also joined?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1137	First of all, let me stress that being a war criminal does not in itself provide the basis for staying in Norway, which may give the impression of the evening post. Persons suspected of war crimes shall be assessed for criminal prosecution in Norway. A national law firm has been set up, among other things. shall investigate and assess criminal prosecution of possible war criminals. Although it is established as a reality that such persons may be subject to persecution in Afghanistan, it does not mean that Norwegian foreign authorities provide them with immediate protection. The cases shall be considered in relation to the so-called exclusion clause of the Refugee Convention. Exclusion means that persons who have committed serious crimes are not entitled to refugee status in Norway. That is what is the basis of UDI practice in such cases. In this context, I would like to point out that, according to the UDI practice note, issues of exclusion should always be considered. I do not know the individual things that are mentioned in the evening post today, and therefore cannot go into each of them. However, on a general basis, I can say that it is not unknown to the foreign authorities that asylum seekers provide information that is manifestly incorrect, because they erroneously believe that it could provide a basis for residence in Norway. As far as I have been able to bring about the clean thing today – it is, after all, less than an hour since I was told that I should come here and answer this question – UNE has not given a residence to any person where it is believed that he has a central connection with the Taliban. I stress that we have not yet been able to go into the matter thoroughly. However, I am informed that UNE has never confirmed, as can be seen from the Evening Post today, that an unknown number of Taliban have been accommodated in Norway. Persons who may fear persecution on return to their country of origin but who have committed serious violations against civilians, etc., are initially excluded from refugee status. However, our international commitments imply that persons such as: the risk of death penalty, or the risk of torture on return to the country of origin, is difficult to return by coercion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1151	The President is now making brief comments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1154	I had expected the Council of State to take this matter considerably more seriously. Here one is facing a situation in which the Norwegian Asylum Institute is at risk of being hit by a lack of trust and popular dissatisfaction because one sees this kind of unsustainable outcome. The questions raised here are, of course, linked to a guideline approved by the Government. It is clear that this applies, for example: a central link with the Taliban. ‘Leaders and commanders at provincial or central level and/or those who have committed a serious infringement may be exposed if they do not have an influential network to protect themselves.’ This is what the guidelines say, approved by the Government. I had expected today that the Council of State had said that these guidelines should be reviewed and amended. The other relationship that the Council of State did not have is that some of these people have been refused UDI, but have been given residence by UNE. There is once again a big question about the autonomous role of the UN. The point is that if the Council of State does what both the Right and the Advance Party are actually asking for, that is to say, changing the guidelines, it will have meaning in relation to UN practice. This case and the case that we have had relating to people from Somalia who are using the threat of sexual mutilation in order to stay, clearly shows that there is now a need to also instruct UNE on fundamental issues, so that one is again given political guidance with Norwegian asylum policy. So to the next question that the Council of State doesn't address either. He points out that we have our own state attorney's office to assess the prosecution of war crimes. But how is the State Attorney to be able to prosecute and assess criminal prosecution for war crimes, when it is clear that the information provided in the asylum interview to the UDI and possibly UNE is not passed on to the police or to the State Attorney? There is also no possibility of criminal prosecution. This too must obviously be a system failure that the Council of State has to deal with. It is clear from Article 1F of the Refugee Convention that in the examples that the Evening Post is drawing up today, as it appears, there should be obvious reasons for having an exclusion in relation to being able to stay. This is also a good reason for the Council of State to be examined in concrete terms when he is given the time to do so. So to the right, there is a clear demand that the government review the guidelines in order to make changes related to actually highlighting having a central position and having committed an assault as a special reason to stay, in relation to a political opinion. This has to be changed. The second is that one must clearly put in place a UN-related system that allows one to provide policy guidelines for UN decisions of principle – not in individual cases, but in principle decisions. Thirdly, we need to ensure that we have a system that allows us to ensure that when things that are clearly punishable are discovered, further warnings are provided, so that they actually become a criminal prosecution. If you don't create an asylum institution that has the population's upswing because it's considered reasonable, I'm afraid we're undermining the international conventions that Norway is part of and about which it's important to protect.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1176	The next speaker is Bjørg Tørresdal, then Trine Skei Grande.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1179	Norway shall not be a place of refuge for terrorists from the Taliban or for criminals. Our international commitments, which we agree on in the Storting, do not mean that we are to create a haven of refuge or a refuge for people who will break international laws. However, it is demanding to provide protection for those who are entitled to it and at the same time to have the right balance vis-à-vis those who are to be protected. With regard to the criminal prosecution of war criminals, the Christian People's Party is quite clear that all those who violate Norwegian law after coming here, or who have been suspected of committing criminal acts against the civilian population, and there are grounds for criminal prosecution, are to be punished. And that’s how – one could get a different impression when a read Evening Post today – that no people can stay in Norway without further delay. It shall always be assessed whether there are criminal offences that will be rejected because it states in the law that people who commit criminal acts or war crimes are to be expelled and not allowed to stay. Presentations of the kind we got in the evening post today are going to be wrong, because they don't tell the whole story about how our law works. The Christian People's Party is committed to a fair and tidy asylum policy that also has confidence in the population. For this reason, it is very important that the Council of State takes this into account and specifies both to the administration of foreign affairs and to the population that people who are guilty of assault against persons – in Norway or before coming here – are not allowed to stay. So Norway does not send people back where they are at risk of being tortured or given the death penalty. But once again, you have to be able to have both of these thoughts in your head at once. Like the Right Party, the Christian People's Party will urge the Government to go through the Code, so that there is no doubt that they will be prosecuted, those suspected of being punished. We need a system to ensure that the police get the necessary information, so that the state attorney has a chance to take these matters. As far as UDI and UNE are concerned, the Storting does not know the entire content of the cases that have been made in the evening post today, and it is difficult to stand on the Great Britain's pulpit and have opinions on UNE's assessments. Once again, it is important that we have confidence that the administration is doing its job, and it seems necessary in this situation that the Council of State is using the opportunity he has for political governance, for tightening up the regulatory framework and in the governance notes of both UDI and UNE. It's going to be wrong when you're left with the impression that because we're a country that's going ahead in the fight for human rights, a country that's going ahead in the fight against the death penalty, we're going to be a place of refuge. This is not the way to understand the legislation, and it is now necessary to tighten up and get a review, so as to ensure that everyone who is to be prosecuted becomes it and that no one gets an automatic stay in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1194	Then the State Council Dag Terje Andersen gets an opportunity for a brief summary comment. Sorry, Trine Skei Grande, the president forgot. I'm so sorry! It's probably because the president wanted to go back to the hearing in his committee, as he looks at the screen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1197	I'm sorry about the postponement, President, but I really want to say something on behalf of the Left on this matter. I don't think it's right because of a newspaper article to judge either a system or a code as useless. But what worries me very much, just as it worries Bent Höie and Per Sandberg, is that the impression that has been given today helps undermine the confidence of the asylum institution in most people. The Asylum Institute is a very fragile and important human right in our legal system. That is why it is important that we politicians fence the institution of asylum. But I think there are two aspects here. One aspect, which may seem a little strange from today's point of view, is that, in my opinion, it is clear from all conventions that war crimes, crimes against humanity, give no reason to stay, no reason for asylum. I think that is a clinking clear premise in all the legislation we have. I assume that the government is also enforcing. But the aspect where I think the Government is leaning back very well is that if it's the case that we get criminals into this country who have committed crimes against humanity, we also have an international legal responsibility to put them in charge of their actions. It has been difficult in many areas. We've been trying in the ex-Yugoslavia area to really lift a court order in that area. The fact that we have had a change of regime in the United States enables us to make a much stronger ring about the international legal order, as Guantanamo has been laid down, said that we should have proper legal proceedings, and that we should not use military courts in this area. I had expected that a government that sees refugees with a leaflet as it may look like they have on the basis of today's media postings had taken an initiative to also lift this in relation to international courts of law. With regard to Afghanistan — the abuses in Afghanistan and in that area — they could have been very good at bringing their criminals up to an international court as well. Norway could have contributed and contributed to this if it is that Norway has such offenders among its asylum seekers. I had expected that the Government had also lifted it internationally, that they wanted to exercise justice in this area. In addition, I think it is very important to review our entire asylum institute if it is such that you can provide a criminal record such as this and believe that it should give access to asylum. The left will join in and fence the asylum institute, and we will also join in saying that we are not sending people back to the death penalty. But it's actually like we have Norwegian soldiers who sacrifice their lives and who fight to get a regime in place in Afghanistan. It also requires an international legal order linked to the criminals who have violated the Afghan people, and I believe that Norway can also contribute from here, if we see that we have criminals from the middle of the country coming into our country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1210	I am pleased that others have underlined the importance of the problem being discussed here, against the intention of the institution of asylum. There was also an important balance in relation to the narrowing of arrivals proposed by the Government last autumn, and now introduces as consultations and necessary processes are in place, just to defend the institution of asylum and not to erode it. So I'm very pleased, and can confirm what Trine Skei Grande calls for, of course, that people who are war criminals, as I said in my post, are excluded from getting asylum in Norway. Then I would like to stress to the representative, Höie, who said something about not taking it seriously: what I tried to get in my post is that I take it so seriously that I want to go into it more thoroughly than to conclude on the basis of the headlines that are in a newspaper today, especially from some of the information that I have received by taking it seriously and checking what is happening, and – I must be allowed to say – we started that of course before we were told that I was here at short notice. I'm interested in such issues, and the studies we've done so far just show that in some areas history is a little bit different. It is often mentioned in the media on refugee issues. I believe that it is just to take it seriously – not just to rely on a look-up, but to go into it thoroughly, as I said in my first post. The way it's done is often that we ask the UDI for a statement of practice, a statement of practice, and then it gets to be on the basis of it and the facts behind the history that is the basis for us to stand here now, that we figure out what action we're going to take in that case, just to maintain the balance that Skei Grande, Bent Höie and others have been in for. We take it so seriously, I can assure the representative, Höie, of that. I would also like to agree with the representative, Höie, in relation to his problematisation, that decisions are sometimes taken in the UDI that are being converted into UNE. This is to be done because UNE is a legal body designed to guarantee the quality of protection or residence on a humanitarian basis, but at the same time in a balance so that UNE does not become a body that develops its own policies as an alternative to national policies. It is the balance that is important to maintain, and I agree with the representative, Höie, that when UNE has now acted as an organ for quite many years, there is reason to see whether the practice and experience are in line with the intention as it was. I remember that it is not long since we also used the tools we have in relation to UNE, precisely in view of what Sandberg's representative was about, cutting and Somalia. We have some possibilities, but there may be reason to discuss together whether those opportunities are good enough, given that we have gone into the matter even more thoroughly than we have had time to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-20.ana.ud876e1221	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word in accordance with § 37a of the Rules of Procedure before the meeting is cancelled? – The meeting has been cancelled.
