ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e45	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Workers' Group to the representative Jorod Asphjell from 17 March until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the commodity, Knut Gravrök, is invited to meet during the period of leave. Knut Gravräk is elected to the Lamentations for the time he meets the representative of Jorod Asphjell.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e66	Knut Engraving is present and will take the seat. The representative, Gunnar Kvassheim, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e71	On behalf of the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug and myself, I am delighted to propose open meetings in the control committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e76	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e93	In 2005, there were about 90 000 unemployed in Norway and an equal number of disabled people. In the period up to the second half of 2008, official unemployment was more than halved — a reduction of more than 50pst. – and we experienced a huge shortage of labour in many sectors. The reduction in unemployment during this period was joyous and means that, at the beginning of the financial crisis, we now have a better starting point than many other countries. On the other hand, in the case of disabled persons, developments were not as good. In the period up to the second half of 2008, the number of people with disabilities was reduced by only 7 000, or a reduction of 7 pst. This shows that this group was unable to benefit from the good labour market. These are people who need comprehensive measures, such as workability clearance, qualification and training. As we now experience increasing unemployment among people who do not have special help needs, we must therefore ensure that this does not happen at the expense of those who are already out of work. Unfortunately, we're seeing signs that that's exactly what's going on right now. Labour market statistics from February this year show that there are more people with disabilities waiting to be reinstated than a year ago. We also see that the number of measuresimplemented is lower in 2009 than was the case in 2008, with a decrease of 5–6 pst. This is contrary to what has been the ambitions of the Big One, and it is necessary to raise questions about how progress may be going in the wrong direction in such an important area. In the global economic crisis we are now facing, the growing unemployment rate is one of the main challenges we face. Still, we have to be able to have two thoughts in our head at once, and we have to be able to lift our eyes. In Norway today, almost 800,000 people are out of working age. The unemployed are just a small minority of these. This alienation is perhaps the greatest challenge for us as a society. Too many people in this country feel that involuntary alienation helps to empty their everyday lives for purpose. It was not least to give these a new chance that we established the Nav reform. The outside world was there before the crisis, and it will be there after the crisis. But now, when the labour market is getting tighter, we risk even more ports in long-term or permanent exclusion. In this situation, we have to think in the long term. We have to think about how we can do something about the challenge of alienation. State Council Dag Terje Andersen said in a debate in the NRK a few weeks ago that he would listen to all the constructive proposals that could facilitate the work in Nav. This is something I and the Right are taking seriously, and we will continue to make proposals that not only solve the crisis Nav is standing up, but that in sum will provide a better welfare offer to all those who are out of work and who want a new chance. Then, of course, we also expect the Council of State to take the time to evaluate our proposals with an open mind and in a serious way, and not just shoot them down like an ideological reflex movement after a short time. When we get reports from the industry that measures against people with disabilities are falling, I think the responsible person would be to strengthen the measures. I note that the Government in its budget proposals is satisfied with the overall amount of action, but when we know that costly and long-term recovery plans are weakened as a result of increased focus on cheap measures, I have problems seeing how you can be satisfied. We know, for example. the impairment of qualification measures in relation to persons with disabilities. Is there a lack of governance or priority that is behind this? Another problem today is that we do not have measurable statistics on the effect of different replication cycles. For this reason, during the budgetary procedure, the Right asked the Government to provide impact analyses of various remedial measures against both the disabled and the ordinary unemployed. We've asked for an overview of how many people get into work, and how many people are in work after one year, three years and five years respectively. I believe it is directly alarming that the government is unable to provide such information. When the Storting is asked to allocate nearly SEK 6.3 billion to labour market measures, it should be a prerequisite that information is also available on how the use of public funds works. In the course of this extension, we also have problems interpreting the statistics that are available. My main focus today is how we can give more people with disabilities a chance in their working life. The available statistics combine different categories which make this difficult. For example, there is a variable called training, in which there is probably both the qualification of the disabled, the AMO course for the unemployed and training as re-training. These are three different types of action aimed at people with different needs and where public responsibility and effort are different. Is this related to the fact that we have today aggregated the budget lines for labour market measures into one item called ‘Actions for job seekers’? The main challenge today is that we have a large number of people in pre-employment working life outside of work. Many people have a strong desire to work, and I think we have a moral duty to help to fulfill this desire. The assumption of success in this work has been adventurous in the period of ageing that is now approaching the end. Firstly, we have had a consensus on welfare policy. Where the fronts have previously stood between system thinking from the left and individualism and tailoring from the right, the tailoring sea has now become the prevailing ideal in welfare policy. Secondly, the government has been at ease. Where a total increase took place, the Nav reform has demonstrated loyalty in the current period to both the Nav reform and the proposals for appropriations and legislative changes that the Government has found necessary to follow up, as well as to the decisions and assumptions underlying it. Then it should be added that the Right throughout the period has also followed up the reform with critical questions and its own proposals for improvements along the way, which we see today clearly has had its reasons. Thirdly, we have had a historically good labour market. Until the autumn of 2008, we had far more job vacancies than the number of unemployed in Norway. The economy has asked for labour to such an extent that formerly regarded labour as animal labour has been sought after. Unfortunately, we have to state that the government has not used the good labour market to lift the groups that need it the most. The government has failed to give a vital handshake to the weakest of us, those who had really hoped in, believed in and deserved to get a new chance and get into work. I think it is unfortunate, and I hope the Council of State is sincere when he says he will listen to constructive proposals from the opposition. Strengthening the follow-up and action against people with disabilities is one of the most expensive labour market measures we have in Norway, but it is worth the price. The cost of not doing anything is so much greater. For society, it will make the difference between a lifelong social security beneficiary and one who participates in the labour market, thereby contributing to the creation of value added and as a taxpayer. For industry, there will be a difference between skilled labour and no labour force. For each user, it will be the difference that an opportunity to participate, to contribute and to serve their own lives rather than to live on the alms of the state. Most important, however, is the social aspect. Having a job to go to, feeling that a person gets to use himself and his competence as well as being part of a professional and social community has a significant self-esteem that extends far beyond the benefits for the individual employee. This is also valuable from a wider public health perspective, by the fact that work generally has a health promotion effect and prevents solitude. Therefore, when we are about to experience a narrower labour market in the time to come, it is essential that we use this situation to restore to the disabled. We know that the situation in the labour market will turn back, and that we will again experience shortages of labour in many sectors. We must therefore ensure that many more people with disabilities are qualified so that they are ready for the labour market as the demand for labour once again rises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e128	The interpellant is raising an important debate on how to create an inclusive working life even now during the financial crisis. In the last few years, Norway has been experiencing a strong economic recovery with a very low level of unemployment. We can summarise that ‘all’ have been winners in the labour market. The figures show 93 300 registered workers on average in 2005 and 80000 on average in 2008, i.e. a decrease of 12 000 to 13 000. Increased efforts on vocational training have contributed to high inflows. However, this figure has been somewhat reduced because there are more deaths than starters of vocational rehabilitation. This is due, inter alia, to: the good labour market and the effort to include the labour force. The development of the number of people with disabilities is not only affected by the labour market, but must also be seen in the context of the development of the number of people receiving different health-related benefits from social security. In order to stimulate increased professional participation and to prevent passive social benefits which could lead to permanent exclusion from the labour market, several major changes have been made to the legislation on labour and health-related benefits. The aim has been to turn passive benefits into active measures such as vocational rehabilitation. Any person who is diagnosed for a longer period of time shall be assessed in the light of the need for labour-related assistance. The number of people with disabilities is therefore partly influenced by the number of people out of work due to illness and partly influenced by the size and content of the re-introduction effort. From 2005 to 2008, the proportion of disabled persons in labour market measures increased from 66 pst. to 69 pst. Interpellant notes that this proportion has fallen to 64 pst. in January 2009. Many closures are completed by the end of the year and therefore conclusions should be drawn with caution in view of the level of action in January. Most people with disabilities who do not participate in labour market measures are in a preparatory phase in which they are able to clarify and assess their working capacity. This is an important preparation for the response action itself in order to ensure the most appropriate provision of services for all. For some, the clearing and planning process may be time-consuming. At the end of this process, there is a clear objective to reduce the waiting time until the start of thereduction measure. In other words, the development is more nuanced than that of the interpellation. The number of people with disabilities is relatively stable compared to the number of unemployed, both in the ups and downs. However, I agree that it is worrying if the proportion of people with reduced working capacity who are offered vocational retraining is reduced. Furthermore, I agree with the inter-pellant that the increased investment in the ordinary unemployed must not go beyond the efforts of the most vulnerable in the labour market. The government has now presented a package of measures to meet the increased unemployment caused by the international recession. These are exceptional funds in addition to funds already allocated for 2009. The increase in the number of response sites will help to ensure that the provision of disabled persons is not impaired in 2009. The interpellant asks what specific steps will be taken by the Council of State to strengthen its efforts. The government follows up St.meld. No 9 for 2006–2007, Work, well-being and inclusion, which make up for major changes in order to improve the provision of services and interventions to users. New legislation on labour-related measures expands and strengthens the range of measures available. These include: establish an offer of work-oriented rehabilitation and launch a test of a temporary wage subsidy. These are measures aimed at the most vulnerable groups in the labour market. Persons with reduced working capacity have access to the full range of measures and services in the Employment and Welfare Act. Different measures have also been put in place within the agreement on inclusive working life between the social partners and the authorities, including: a new scheme for the follow-up of sick leave with the provision of health and rehabilitation services, the so-called ‘Responsors-back’ scheme. A number of measures are also being taken to increase the participation of people on the edge of or outside the labour market, where the Nav reform is particularly important. The government implements qualification programmes and different strategy plans against poverty, work and mental health, habilitation and rehabilitation, and inclusion and integration of immigrants. I would like to stress that people with disabilities have been and are a high priority group in labour market policy. The size of the group’s labour market measures has increased significantly in recent years. The transition to work has gradually increased to nearly half of all those who have completed their vocational rehabilitation. The notification measures are continued at a high level in 2009. I believe that the level of ambition of the vulnerable groups should be high. A worsening of the labour market situation makes it more difficult for people with disabilities to get into working life. Job seekers are exposed to exclusion and exclusion mechanisms when the labour market is deteriorating, especially if the recession persists. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion will therefore follow developments closely and will assess the need to strengthen efforts for people with disabilities in the future. A new temporary income insurance system of redundancy payments is introduced. The conversion involves, inter alia: systematic use of work performance assessments to clarify the need for labour-oriented assistance at the earliest opportunity, so that each person can obtain the appropriate services as quickly as possible. I will contribute to the overall organisation of measures taken by the State of Labour and Welfare so that the measures envisaged can be implemented and the proposals in the St.meld. No 9, Work, well-being and inclusion can be realised.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e154	I thank the Council of State for the answer and note that there are a number of things that we agree on, and that is something that we strongly disagree with. Among other things, we probably strongly disagree on what reality actually looks like. When I hear the Council of State, I get the feeling that he's overly trivializing the challenges we're facing, and that it's too much of a picture of the situation. I also get the feeling that the Council of State and the Government are not taking the seriousness of the challenge we're facing. When the Council of State says that ‘all’ have been winners in the labour market’, I think it is a rather special way of presenting reality. I showed in my post that unemployment has been reduced by 50 pst. in recent years due to a continuous and very high economic cycle. During this period, the disabled have not been in the vicinity of a corresponding reduction. The reduction in the unemployment rate for the disabled has been very modest in relation to the situation. There is some seriousness in the situation that, in a history-long and strong economic cycle, the possibility of giving the weakest in the labour market a better offer and a new chance has been neglected. We now see that Nav is struggling in many fields, although of course there are some offices that are doing well, and that work well. But Nav is facing significant challenges and is in deficit in many, many areas. For 13 out of 17 different social benefits schemes, the deadlines are not met. It is therefore necessary to take care to produce it in such a way that because of the fact that you have now been given control of the exact emergency of processing applications for unemployment benefits, the Nav crisis has been resolved. It's a significant simplification, and it's also leading people behind the light. The problems associated with Nav in all the other areas remain, at least to the same extent. What is my concern is that the government has announced that they want to postpone the perhaps most important part of the Nav reform, that is, the implementation of the work capacity assessment. That's the first thing you came up with, which you wanted to postpone. So what's the contents and the nerves of the Nav reform, and what was supposed to be targeted at this particular group that we're talking about here, is the government wants to postpone. I think that is very passive and actually a failure statement to the very weakest in the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e165	Let me start with the interpellant's reference to day-to-day payments in relation to those who become unemployed. Of course, it's totally unacceptable that people don't get their daily allowances within the deadline. But I dare say that I have never stated that question without at the same time stressing that there are other and major challenges that we have to address in relation to Nav. So who should have subdued it, I don't know, it's at least not this council. I do not debat and do not paint the situation. I am providing some information that shows that we have actually had some improvements. At the same time, I have underlined the challenges we are facing, not least in relation to the fact that Nav is not just going to pay the daily allowance, but that they are also going to make an offer so that people can come back to work, including offers for those who are now unemployed. For this reason, both in the treatment of the State budget by the Stortinge, where the party of the inter-pellant proposed to cut the number of labour market measures, which would not, of course, improve the situation, and in the January package of measures, that the measures needed because of the increasing number of unemployed should be added and not be in competition with measures for the weakest in the labour market. This is provided by the documents underlying the treatment of the Storting. Then I have a comment on that with the postponement of the redundancy scheme. It's a new income insurance scheme, where we combine three old income insurance schemes. It is true that we believe that it should be postponed until 1 March, and that is precisely because we were at the beginning of the upgrading, training and phase-in of ICT that was necessary to put it in place from 1 October. In a situation where we need to get even better grip on the development of waiting lists on income protection, we found it right to wait five months with the introduction of it. The instruments associated with the redundancy benefits — e.g. as from 1 January of this year, that the instruments can now be seen across the previous categories of rehabilitation, rehabilitation and temporary disability – can still be used across borders. So the instrument will not be deferred, even if the very system of redundancy payments is suspended as a basis for securing income. Otherwise, I would like to end by saying that what we, for example, are doing. Now introduced with unlimited wage subsidies, it turns out that one has very good experience with just for the target group that both the interpellant and I are engaged in. So part of the things we're doing now actually works.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e176	Like the Council of State, I agree that the interpellant is raising an important debate, but it would be wrong to claim that this debate is of new date. I also think it is a little strange to hear Right now's concern that the level of action is high enough, since the Right in the context of the 2009 State Budget, dealt with in the Stortinget as late as at the beginning of December last year, actually suggested cutting the level of action by 150 million. kr. One hundred million. Although correctly proposed for the basic programme of skills in the labour market, a cut of 50 million remained. kr. At the same time, the right proposed to cut the level of action by 2000 places. The same thing happened in 2008. On the right, a cut of 2000 sites and a cut in the 160 million allocations were proposed. kr, then even without a transfer of funds to measures such as: the basic competence of the labour market. The right-wing party seeks to give the impression that they have wished for a stronger commitment to measures for disabled persons than the majority of them have. As late as yesterday, Monday, March 16, 2009, Right Per-Christian Foss writes in Today's Business that ‘... the volume of labour market measures to this group is lower in 2009 than in 2008...’.» He goes on to write: ‘Rights have put in their alternative state budgets several action areas for the disabled...’ So that's wrong. In its alternative state budgets, the right has cut the level of action. It is sought from the Right to give a skin of the opposite, by tricking a little bit with numbers. It is pretended to be cut in ordinary measures — 3000 in the figure — both in the 2008 and 2009 budgets, in order to strengthen measures for people with disabilities by 1 000 places. But then, the Right elegantly jumps over the fact that it is no longer called ordinary measures and special measures for people with disabilities. The size decided, on a proposal from the Red-Green majority, to merge the two entries into one action item with effect from 2008. The reason was that we had a remarkable arrangement in the past, where it was possible to redeploy funds from special to ordinary measures, but not vice versa. So that's the end of it. As early as 2006, the old, incomprehensible practice in favour of the disabled was reinforced by the fact that the majority stated that such a transfer as we had had had from special to ordinary measures could only take place if some of the disabled persons had more use for the type of measures available during the time of the ordinary measures. So from the beginning of the period, the red-green majority has implemented changes that will benefit those with reduced working capacity. The overall level of action is therefore of importance, including for people with disabilities. In all the draft budgets, the majority has clarified that jobseekers with the most complex problems should be given priority within these frameworks. When the red-green government took over, the number of labour market measures was increased, both in 2006 and 2007, to the current level of 68 000 jobs, which has thus continued from 2007 through both the 2008 and 2009 budgets. In addition, there will be an increase of 650 million in the package of measures. NOK 6 000 new places in 2009, so now we're up in 74 000 places. So the multiples continue to increase the number of places, while the right continues to cut. And I'll think that the job-seekers with disabilities are more served by the majority's policies than by the Right in this area. So one last comment. Martin Engeset said in his first post that it was alarming that we do not have enough information about how actions work. There's nothing new either. That's why that very point was an important part of the majority's input into St.meld. No 9 for 2006–2007 Work, welfare and inclusion. And it has been announced in later government budgets that work on good measurement criteria is in progress and in a good way. There is important information for all batches, whether one is to increase the number of action sites, as the majority is, or one will reduce the number of action sites, as proposed by the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e196	I think the interpellant is raising an incredibly important debate – a debate that we really should have had continuously in this house, and at a much earlier time. In my opinion, there is little doubt that the disabled have had to thank them too much with great party speeches and fine words. The time for the nice words to be followed up with concrete actions – and perhaps to a much greater extent with stronger actions – has now come. If we look at what the FFO itself says about Nav and the major problems, we find the following: ‘Deficient summer jobs and experience in the course of the studies mean that many disabled people are not offered a job after they have completed their education.’ If we go back to the autumn of 2008, we see that 45 pst. of the disabled at that time were in work. It's showing numbers from the SSB. This is about the same level as in 1997. So it hasn't been the big improvement to get disabled people back into work. If we look at the 2008 figures, they show that about 92,000 people with disabilities want to get into work. There are twice as many of them as in 2007. The number of people with disabilities who wanted to return to work thus doubled in one year, from 2007 to 2008. So you can always ask, is it possible to get all the 92,000 back to work? Is it possible to exploit their residual working capacity? I believe that this should be an overall objective. Let's say these have 50 pst. residual working capacity. It will be 46 000 annual works. If we can't get everyone, but half back to work and if we, if these have 50 pst. residual working capacity, being able to exploit it, will be 23 000 annual jobs in the workplace, and we would have helped a lot of people with disabilities. It is also interesting to note what Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen said at the beginning of January on the ANB news: there will be twice as many older people per year. active in 2060. It worries the government. And they're notifying us of new measures. Several must be working, fewer must go to social security, was the clear message from the Minister of Finance at the time, which has also been a clear message from the Government in a number of other contexts. And she went on to say that professional participation among immigrants, disabled people, women and the elderly must increase. That's really the same thing as the Council of State says in the answer to today's interpellation. So we're still seeing that you don't get the big influx of people with disabilities. To achieve the Government's ambitions in the new perspective communication, new and more powerful measures need to be put in place, and they need to be coordinated through a comprehensive strategy that obliges the various actors involved to interact much more closely. For this reason, I have four challenges for the Council of State: Will he ensure that a separate action plan for the disabled is presented to address the transition between education and work? Is he willing to look at the state trainee schemes, extend them and actively market them much more than what has been done in the past? Is he willing to look at an improvement in the funding for students with disabilities so that the simpler ones come back to work, and thus follow up what was in their time intention, to remove the gaps in the transition between education and work? How can he better follow up the obligation of activity for businesses with more than 50 employees so that there is a greater obligation in relation to the problems facing the disabled? I hope that the Council of State is also willing in this interpellation debate to address these challenges, and to outline what he intends to do further. The time for party speeches is over. The time has come for concrete and powerful actions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e236	In the postwar period, there has been a broad consensus on welfare policy in Norway. It has been an area for the broad compromises, not for the cheap polemics. I think that has been a great advantage. I think Norway has earned it. We also often claim that the Nordic welfare model is a kind of model for the rest of Europe. You can probably discuss how much common Nordic it really is, because there are differences between Denmark, Finland, Norway and Sweden, but there are some common features that are absolutely interesting. I would like to stress that the Nordic welfare model is not a social-democratic product, but a product of quite broad political compromises, which we have the power to maintain through changing governments, and that there has therefore been predictability and stability associated with the arrangements. But then comes the degree of self-criticism we have to exercise, and that is that the Nordic welfare model has ensured us high professional participation. That increase is what women have stood for. There are many reasons for this – which I am not going to come up with here – but unfortunately we also have a record in the outsourcing of employment through various social security schemes. And we haven't been able to create social security schemes that make it easy to go from social security to work. I think everyone, regardless of the government position now and now, should contribute to a little self-criticism in these very areas, because we cannot in the long run continue to develop this way, if we are essentially to rely on the Norwegian population to be the basis of the labour market. There is no resistance to labour immigration, but we may not be the country that is the highest on the list of attractive labour markets in the world – if I may say so a little cautiously. So the inclusive working life we didn't quite succeed with. The most disappointing thing, I think, is in many ways that we have left behind the best years of post-war maybe, with an enormously high economic growth from the second half of 2003, in 2004 and even the first half of last year, where we have had a fantastic growth, but in these years we have actually not really managed to create a more inclusive working life. The weak groups that were out of work are still there. In 2005, there were about 90 000 unemployed and the same number of ordinary unemployed. In the period up to 2002, unemployment was halved — excellent — but the reduction in the number of people with disabilities was only 7 000. The Council of State spoke of the fact that both the number of persons on the measures and the number of people with disabilities were ‘relatively stable’. I think it bears witness to a lack of ambition. Indeed, it should have been possible in these good years to bring about a formidable reduction in the number of people with disabilities, because the labour market was keen on new participants. So we had periods of 100,000–150,000 job vacancies and were never able to really get a break for the transition from social security or various measures to an active working life. I record that the Council of State saying there are statistical sources of error in measuring the exact number of re-entrys in January, that someone is on the way out, or someone is on the way in. But at least it remains to be seen whether stability is the only thing you can boast of in this area. In fact, I remember from the last period, when we had a worse labour market, that the Workers' Party was a very strong critic that we did not get a greater reduction in the number of insured persons and a faster transition from social security to work. Therefore, I am quite surprised that the red-green government now, at the end of this period, has not actually managed to carry out one major reform in this area. I record that there is now a technical postponement of the redundancy scheme until March next year – for reasons explained by the Council of State – but some major reform will not be left after this period. I had actually expected that from a party like the Workers' Party, which I shall say something positive about, in the sense that for many years the Workers' Party has been a driver of some reforms in this area. In this period, I think that has been, in total, a defect – and that for a period when it had actually been possible. Finally, to the Council of State: Will the Council of State ensure that Nav is able to expand its capacity in terms of performance assessment, by also using the labour market enterprises’ capacity in this area – they have offered? Will the Council of State ensure that Nav can also use private employment rental companies to expand their capacity so that they can improve in other areas? Will the Council of State ensure that the head of Nav is given greater governance powers to ensure that there will not be such a difference in the capacity of the various offices as it is today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e255	There's an important debate the interpellant adds up to, and as I see it, there's two main issues associated with this interpellation. One is to what extent today's organisation of Nav, i.e. the reform itself, contributes to strengthening the problems. The second is, to what extent are changes in the labour market contributing to the current high level of problems and challenges? I want to look back a little. I remember that as early as 1997, when I first came to the Stortinget, we had a debate in the then Social Committee on the organisation of social security, employment and social security. The background for it was just that it did not work satisfactorily that time. You got the impression that people were being clientized, was sent from one instance to the next, where one instance often said that this is not our responsibility, so someone else has to take it. That way, there was a kind of black player game where it was to define the responsibility you had for others to take over. What is a great strength in the reform is that responsibility is now clearly placed in one place, namely at Nav, and then you have to find the solutions there. However, a number of issues are also highlighted, so that, in a transitional phase, until all the Nav offices are up and running, there are new challenges to be faced. It shouldn't surprise anyone. At the top of it all comes the financial crisis we are in, which also increases unemployment in Norway, with the consequences it has both for the labour market and for greater performance-related activity. Before I ended up at Stortinget, I had an advisory position for the County Street Office in Finnmark. I have to say that it was very interesting to study the causes of sick leave and the fluctuations associated with sick leave and unemployment. I remember that at the time there was a debate in Stortinget, where there was great concern about the increase in sick leave and the costs associated with it. What was interesting about that debate when you followed it from the outside was that the focus in its entirety was on the increase in paid sick pay, without any, neither the then state council nor any of the representatives in the hall, drawing out an exactly similar reduction in daily allowances. Thus, increased employment was created where the total cost of daily and sick pay, from 1993 to 1996, was almost constant at DKK 23 billion. But everyone focused on the increase in sick pay, and no one focused on the decrease in daily pay. And what's done too little research is how those who somehow need help and benefit from the public receive different kinds of benefits almost like a tilting board – and don't get one type of benefit, they get the other. If you see that it goes up one place, you see very often that it goes down another. A focus that only focuses on one of these benefits will not capture the kind of fluctuations that we now also see in the labour market. It is obvious that when there is now an increase in unemployment, it must of course be assumed that there will be an increase in day-to-day benefits. It also appears that the understanding of causes of sick leave in some work groups is too poor. I also find it strange that many of those who have attacked today's sickness fund scheme have not gone into and looked at this to a greater extent, for example among fishermen. The absence of fishing professions is not at its highest when they are to take out the lottery, where an effort was to be made, but perhaps could not do so because of disease. The sick leave comes when the lottery is taken out and you really don't have anything special to do, and instead you're going to wash your vessels. This means that there is a serious discrimination caused by the fact that the sick are receiving benefits during that period, while those who have fished up the ticket without being sicked are not receiving it. An example I might mention is Kautokeino, where sick leave was surprisingly lowest on a national basis, but in return they had the highest daily pay and about the highest social benefit. If you do not understand these types of mechanisms, analyse them and act on the basis of them, but only act on the basis of e.g.: health care, there will be so little certainty that people are likely to be seriously wronged and thus not achieving results from the measures taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e269	The theme of today's inter-pelling debate is the response to a vulnerable labour market group. I believe that across all parties, the representative shares the concern that people with disabilities, as it is now called, meet today with a labour market that seems more exclusive than before. We have been behind us for many years with a fantastic strong labour market and yet we have struggled to include everyone in this market. What, then, are we going to do when the outlook in the labour market is significantly worse and is expected to be weak both this year and next year? One of the answers, I believe, is to strengthen the commitment to longer-term actions and response chains, and measures that offer close follow-up over time to the individual. The fear of so-called lock-in into interventions rather than spreading to regular work for users with complex needs seems to me to have been exaggerated even in good times – and now I think there is even less reason to worry about it. However, we should be very concerned that a weak labour market can lead to the permanent exclusion of vulnerable groups. It is a sensible strategy to focus on measures that can qualify in the longer term and increase the chances of maintaining labour market ties when the labour market is gradually improved. The interpellant refers to statistics showing that the so-called action intensity has fallen in the last year. Compared with the fresh monthly figures for February from Nav yesterday, they show that people in this target group who do not have measures have increased by 5,700 in the last year. At the same time, the number of people with measures has fallen by 3,000. Of course, it is wrong to stare blindly at this, without looking at the reasons. That the number of persons in a screening phase is increasing when the number of registered persons with reduced working capacity is increasing is, of course, a natural consequence. I'm not going to make a big number in this debate of these numbers in isolation. What's important is the ambitions and plans for the future. Can the Government state clearly that the number of measures — and I am talking about measures adapted to those with complex needs — will follow the number of people in this target group that Nav is registering, if our fear of increased influx actually strikes? That's the most important question to clarify today. Tomorrow I will ask the same question in the questionnaire, and I will continue to do so in months to come. Let me also draw the attention of the Council of State to an important observation that a unanimous committee had in the budget position of the autumn. The Committee then asked the Government to provide good information on the priorities envisaged in the action portfolio, including the special focus on people with disabilities, as well as other selected focus groups. The fact that one now does not distinguish between so-called ordinary and special labour market measures in the budget does not mean that the Storting does not want to give leadership to important social policy-driven labour market policy priorities. For the Christian People's Party, we have to add that we do not think that the Council of State has put a lot of effort into providing good and detailed information on these priorities. Abiding market situation means that these issues will be even more topical in the future. It is even more important than before that the efforts towards vulnerable groups are reinforced and debated. We hope the Council of State will continue to contribute with commitment and glow for both.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e284	Unemployment is rising faster than previously assumed and is definitely faster than the Government’s 2009 government budget. Experience in the past has shown that they are those with the shortest links to the labour market who first have problems both in getting out of work and in keeping their jobs. Professionally disabled people are among those with the greatest difficulty in entering the labour market. That's why it's important that they be given priority. It has done so by proposing to increase the number of job-impaired action places in the budgets over the last three years. It's kind of interesting here. I have to mention that I think the representative of Ballo's posts was interesting in relation to the sliding transitions between benefits. That may not be particularly new for any of us, but I would say that the representative Ballo's reflection was interesting. There were many who were unable to benefit from the positive developments in the economy and in the labour market and who now need long-term recovery courses with a significant degree of individual follow-up. In this group, there are many who will work and who can add valuable skills and labour to society, only society and working life are able to include them. An individualised quality management approach is the best community can help to improve the quality of life for longterm unemployed and people with disabilities. Nav needs to make sure that the day-to-day payments are sorted out – it can be done in a simple and unbureaucratic way, such as: we proposed – after 14 days regardless of whether the application has been processed or not. When we proposed it, the Prime Minister was also in favour of it. It is a challenge that I also pass on to the Council of State. Then there are people who want us to use more private solutions in this situation, for example the agency, etc. There's no solution as Left sees it. The action itself, such as training provision and skills enhancement, can be carried out by private enterprises, non-profit institutions and the like, and would like to see more permanent work organised. However, it is for the public to be responsible for the fulfilment of the individual rights of the disabled person, who must have a coordinating role and who must ensure privacy. This does not want the Left to privatize. Instead of choosing an unbureaucratic way of resolving the issue of day-to-day pay, the Government will postpone the implementation of three simplification mechanisms that are absolutely necessary in order to have an effect on the Nav reform – a solution that may seem restrictive, but is in reality a measure that does not solve the challenges in the short or long term. In the view of the Left, the government’s solution will only make the situation even worse for those in queues and other users of Nav’s services. In addition, this release undermines the whole basis of the Nav reform, namely the working line. The interpellant also points to an important issue: when one has not managed to reduce the unemployment of people with disabilities by more than 7 000 in good times, the challenges are great today, when the crisis is here. This is the time for major challenges, and the government has not spent the good time getting more people with disabilities into the labour market. So it's a little weird to hear the Council say these numbers are stable. I think it seems defensive and a little ambitious from the Council of State. In recent times, the government has also not had an overview or control of the greatest welfare reform we have had in recent times. That gives cause for great concern.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e305	Like other speakers, I would like to pay tribute to the interpellant for bringing up a very important matter. This is a matter that has been on the case card for a long time, and which is quite challenging. It has to do with the organisation of Nav, we're going to admit it. There is reason to have some impatience in Nav, but at the same time have a realistic relationship with the organisation that is to solve the major challenges we face. To merge three different agencies or organizations into one and believe that we're going to make it work optimally from the beginning is to be optimistic. I have been working on this problem at both local and county level, and I find that we have been dealing with the same problem for a long time. It is not easy to motivate neither the levels of government nor the private sector to meet the needs of people with disabilities. We can only look at the challenge we have in getting apprenticeships. We have young people who want to. We have young people who are impatient after having practical experience. We have a lot of problems getting the necessary apprenticeships. It was said by the representative of the Progressive Party that the time of the celebrations is over. We must demand action now. Yes, if it was so simple that we found the fasitant answers by browsing a reference book, I think most of the people would have been busy finding them. They're not easy to find. We note that there is a growing awareness in public organisations, in the administration and in the business world of providing opportunities for people with disabilities to enter the labour market because they will be a positive element in solving the challenges we face. I think we're going to have a realistic relationship with the fact that it's possible to increase the number, so that it gives visible results in a short time. Let's still be impatient. Let's see that there is a growing commitment to action, and let's focus on trying to be pedagogical in the motivation towards the parties who are going to say yes to taking the disabled into work. It's a long-term job, but it's a positive job, where we can contribute to giving important elements into our business life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e318	When I have promoted this interpellation, it is because my right and I are seriously concerned about the development of measures against the disabled. In addition, the single entry of labour market action budget lines, i.e. job-seekers’ actions, was decided through the call for proposals for work, well-being and inclusion. The intention in this was good, a more flexible scheme that would help to make the measures more impacted by tailoring around the individual. On the right, this conversion was supported, but at the same time pointed out that this should not lead to a reduction in costly measures at the expense of cheaper forms of action. Unfortunately, the reports we get from different action organisers indicate that this is exactly what is happening. A unanimous Labour and Social Committee wrote in its budgetary position for 2008: ‘The Committee assumes that the Government of future budgetary documents provides information on the planned composition of the portfolio of measures and differences in costs between different main groups of measures providing at least as good a basis as in the past in relation to both the priorities and, where appropriate, proposing another facility.’ This recommendation was not followed up in the 2009 budget papers. The merger of one item, as seen on the Right, has had the effect of prioritising the cheapest measures at the expense of the more expensive and those which have the best impact in the long term, for this is actually about priorities. Then I agree that you should not look blindly at developments by just looking at the January figures. No, we haven't, because the February figures don't give any reason for optimism either. As the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund pointed out, development continues in a negative direction, even though the government is trying to produce another and completely signed reality. I think the representative of Ballo's post was very interesting. I made the following reflection, namely that today's Norwegian welfare society is very good in itself. Each scheme and benefit may have an independent and good reason and intention, but side by side and on top of each other, the effect and the result may be different from what was initially intended. This is complex, and it is precisely for this reason that there is reason to look critically at some of the arrangements we have, which effectively contribute to keeping groups out of the labour market. At the end of the day, I hope the Council of State will have a good answer to the challenges that Per-Christian Foss came up with. In addition, I would like to ask the Council of State if he believes that the relocation companies do not have available capacity, and if they misinform when they point out that the measures have been reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e338	To the last question, I can only say that the purpose of the merger in terms of instruments and aggregation in terms of the income protection basis is to give more flexibility to the user. Of course, it has not been possible to choose cheaper measures, but it is necessary to tailor better measures and to have measures that are more adapted to each individual user. That's the starting point. The possibility of achieving this is better if the level of labour market measures proposed by the Government and adopted by the Stortinge is granted than the one proposed by the Right, but which the Stortinge has fortunately not adopted. I think Per-Kristian Foss had a very constructive approach to much of what is common, linked to the Nav reform and the welfare measures we have discussed in that context. I can initially assure both the representative Foss and others that the Director of Labour and Welfare has and will have the powers that he can have. What was pointed out by him yesterday was the fact that Nav locally is a joint project between the state and the municipality. In that case, the State decides not on its own but on the basis of agreements of intent and cooperation. I have spoken to him both before and after that interview yesterday, and it was not intended as a signal that the Directorate of Labour and Welfare does not have the necessary powers to follow up the state's part of the tasks. I must be allowed to say that it could be very tempting to take a discussion regarding the Per-Christian Foss' description of the Nordic welfare model. I hope what Per-Kristian Foss said about our standing together means that in the future we will not have proposals to privatise the school system in Norway, which is an essential part of the Nordic welfare model, that we will not have proposals that lead to greater pay differences – small wage differences are an essential part of the Nordic and Norwegian welfare model – and that we will not have proposals to weaken the work environment promise, which is an essential part of the Norwegian welfare model. I hope that means it. But so have several, including Foss, been involved in the reforms carried out by this government. The Nav reform is a relatively large reform, if I may say so. We're dealing with it together, but it was introduced in this period of government. In terms of instruments, I would like to point out an unlimited wage subsidy, that you can now permit your unemployment benefit for a period when you try to get to work – first five years and then possibly five more – so that you can try your way into work without losing your social security rights, and not least what we have done through the Nav reform of the qualification programme. There are over 4,000 people who have never received an offer before, who are now actually offered to come back to work. Individually, they are important, in addition to many other measures, in order to jointly achieve the objective of making us even better at helping those who want to return to work from a passive social security life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e349	The debate on substance is closed. 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e363	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. The President notes that the Council of State is not present at this time. In addition, the President will make suggestions that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a confirmation. The first speaker is Tom Stroemstad Olsen, for the case-speaker, Inger Løite.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e372	Local democracy is a fundamental part of a well-functioning democracy. A strong local democracy is both the foundation of popular rule and a prerequisite for trust and legitimacy in the National People's Rule. With both municipalities and county municipalities, the population is given good opportunities for participation and involvement in the public debate. St.meld. No 33 for 2007-2008, A strong local democracy, deals with a good review of the trends in local democracy, while making proposals for strengthening local democracy. The most important thing, in my view, is what is proposed in the message in connection with the vote. Low turnout is a major democratic problem that all parties must contribute to solving. This is one of the most fundamental things we have in our democratic system. If this fails, democracy will also fail in Norway. It in itself is, in my view, very serious. Representative democracy is at the heart of the Norwegian People's Republic. For this reason, electoral participation should be generally high, and all parts of the people should be represented as much as possible. A lack of opinions is important for politics and democracy. Here we have no choice, here we have to act widely in all parties. That is why I am pleased that an overall committee points to this in the vote. The majority believe that the measures that could increase the turnout are positive. Special measures against young voters and immigrant groups are important to increase their participation in elections. The government provides special measures and customised information to these groups. It is also important to facilitate the possibility for those who do not have the opportunity to vote on the election day to give their vote in advance in an appropriate and good manner. I think it is good that there is an opportunity to extend the opening hours of the polls to noon. 21, and that there is an opportunity to hold two days' choice. In particular, this is important for municipalities where a large majority of the population are weekly commuters. In addition, the Ministry will also work on a solution with electronic voting procedures. We want to strengthen minority rights in terms of decisions on extended opening time in the polling rooms and two days' choice. We will do this because we believe it's a value in itself that as much as possible is given the opportunity to give up their vote. In this area, economic considerations cannot be more important than our democratic system has. Trials with 16-year-olds’ voting rights shall also be carried out in 2011. The announcement says something about the common election day, but this is a process that is now taking place in the political parties, and the government will follow the signals that will come to a conclusion at a later stage. Personally, I am pleased that the system of direct elections to the rapporteur is now being removed. After several years of direct election attempts by the rapporteur, we noticed that in some municipalities the scheme is particularly poor. We have examples of a civil majority with a non-citizen rapporteur, and vice versa. This is particularly true in that we are then given a role of rapporteur without political substance. This does not at all strengthen the political debate. In the future, the Ministry will work to further develop the rapporteur’s role, including: by giving the rapporteur the right to vote on political issues in the Municipal Council. For policies to be more interesting and for a living local democracy, it is important that politicians do not delegate too much from political to administrative level. That is why I am pleased that this communication proposes to adopt a new delegation regulation from the local government to the administration during each parliamentary term. In order to have a functioning local democracy, the framework must also be clear. Here I would like to show that the total income of the municipalities has increased significantly during the current ageing period. As a result, the municipal sector has been able to recruit 45 600 more from the third quarter of 2005 to the third quarter of 2008. The majority believe that the designation of state transfers to municipalities should be limited as much as possible, as this gives municipalities an important space for action. However, this may be necessary in some cases, especially in the case of new national initiatives. A good example of what we have done is that we are immediately on the verge of full child - care coverage. This was an important national effort with which state resources were used to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e400	I believe that in a democratic society, the decisions must be made as closely as possible to those concerned. Good dialogue with citizens and best local knowledge are essential for a good decision-making basis. A well-functioning local democracy is therefore very important. In order to ensure democracy, we depend on broad participation both in elections and through activation, involvement and representation in political bodies. I believe that local democracy has lost during this government, among other things. due to new planning and building laws, regional reform and new income system. The Planning and Building Act, adopted in the autumn of 2008, limits the influence of local democracy in a number of areas. Construction bans in the 100 meter belt along the sea are tightened, which is very impractical both for coastal municipalities and for many small island municipalities. The influence of municipalities is weakened by regional plans and bans on shopping centres of more than 3000 square metres. Local self-government is a prerequisite for a living democracy. Local self-government also provides better solutions adapted to the individual municipality. The county council lacks sufficient population support to contribute to the development of local democracy, such as: is shown by the fact that the turnout rate is lower in the case of selections than in the case of local elections. Three levels of administration contribute to a lower provision of services for the population, because unnecessary resources go to administration and bureaucracy, while many small municipalities lack sufficient resources and weight to build environments of competence. The promotion party wants fewer and more robust municipalities, and it seems that there are now more and more parties inside this line. The Progress Party also believes that the counties should be closed down as an independent level of government. There is a clear tendency for municipalities to have more statutory tasks without adequate funding being provided. Several statutory tasks are involved in undermining local democracy because several priorities are moved from one local government to another: the Stortinget. The municipality shall have a generalist responsibility towards its inhabitants. This means that formal responsibility is shared between the State and the municipality. However, general responsibility must also mean that municipalities must have a responsibility to cooperate when necessary to perform tasks. In some areas, specific legislation may require that the tasks be carried out by cooperating municipalities, such as the host municipality scheme, which the Progress Party considers to be a good scheme. Today’s policies provide little encouragement for municipalities to invest in business, which is also a challenge. Therefore, corporation tax should be returned to the municipalities. Decisions shall be taken as close as possible to the citizens of the country and involve a significant decentralisation of power in which citizens are given greater influence over their own lives than they have today. The municipality must not only manage state schemes but have a real influence over policies in areas relating to the municipality's inhabitants. The municipality must and must be responsible for the availability of good services to the population. The municipality is also responsible for paying for those offers and ensuring good quality. The Progress Party believes that it is immaterial who provides such a service, such as non-governmental organisations, private suppliers, as long as the municipality pays and ensures quality. Greater competitive outsourcing and free user choice will provide better services and involve citizens. The ability to operate quality control is important. Finally, I would like to stress that it is problematic that in several cases the municipality is both an inspector and a service provider of the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e432	The President will ask the representative whether he intends to take up the suggestions made in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e435	I want to include our suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e440	The representative Ib Thomsen has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e443	There is no shortage of party speeches and fine words when it comes to local self - control and local democracy. It probably also carries this message to some extent. That's why I think it's extra striking that the contrast between the parties, the beautiful words and the reality that it's felt out there among local politicians, among the locally elected and most of the people, can be very often great. The experience out there is that there is less room for local self-government — that space is getting smaller — and that more power is being moved out of the local government and into this room, or even worse into departments and bureaucracies. There was one who once said that all power should be in this room, but I don't think that was what was meant by the proposal. So you go away from popular control, you go away from decisions that are anchored in elected bodies near people, and then you centralize them into the Storing and into Oslo. There are many examples of this, such as: that, under this government, free revenues have actually fallen by nearly NOK 1 billion. The Planning and Building Act is an example, and several others could be mentioned. Local democracy is a strength. Returning to a stronger local democracy also requires tough basic principles. One of them is that there has to be a difference between the municipalities. If local democracy is to have some function, have some value, there has to be a difference between who controls. There must be a difference between a red-green municipality and a right-hand municipality. It also means that there may be differences for the population — and then they put their local elected representatives in charge. This big message is largely about how to strengthen local democracy, and like the previous representative, I fully agree that focusing on the county municipality is a dead end. The county does not have the democratic legitimacy of the municipality, and I don't think people perceive or have the same close relationship with the county that they have with their local elected politicians. I would like – briefly – to comment on three specific points and please say a little bit about the Right Reason for them. The first concerns the trials to be carried out with the right to vote for 16-year-olds. Now it's been a reverse operation in itself. As far as I remember – at least it seemed like this – the former Central Party Minister was quite strongly opposed to this. But now you've turned around. It is true that all age limits are to some extent arbitrary, but the Right believes that today's age of voting represents a reasonable balance for when an adult can be regarded as a member of society. In addition, it is worth bringing with it two very crucial things – the first is that the turnout of the first-time voters is already low, and lowering the age of authority by two years will hardly change it. Another thing that's interesting is that if you listen to the young people yourself, then all the studies show that 16-year-olds don't want to vote. They want influence, but they don't think voting is the right way to go. A brief comment also on minority rights in local democracy. There is reason to be skeptical of municipalities where large parties join together to reduce the number of municipal government representatives, especially if it is aimed at strengthening their own position. Nevertheless, the Right does not believe that there is a need for such a strong minority guarantee in relation to this that, in the worst case, it is at the expense of necessary changes where needed. There is simply too much local variation that you can have a central minority guarantee in this way. So, finally, one of the proposals in the Storing Communication that could have the most far-reaching impact, namely the introduction of a single election day for the choice of choice and local elections. Even today, local policies are struggling to become visible. For some strange reason, the municipal election campaign has stamped as a kind of B election fight – it's not as important who you choose to run the municipalities where people live. What will happen if one day is introduced and local politicians, for example. from my home country, Telemark, has to compete with Jens Stoltenberg, Erna Solberg and Siv Jensen for the attention? I fear that it will be like taking a struppet on local democracy and making a difficult situation even worse. In Telemark, where I come from, I've met several central party representatives. They're always good at stressing that they're for local autonomy. I have to say that I hope that the centre party in this case will think about and oppose the proposal – if that is at all possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e467	The power investigation concluded that democracy and the people's regime were under pressure. The pressure is expressed in various ways, according to the final report of the Powers Investigation. We see a development in which decisions are moved away from elected bodies and over to the market. The liberalist thinking – New Public Management – that we have had since the 1980s has been very central to moving decisions from political bodies to the market. They also stress that there has been legalisation. This means that decisions are moved away from politically elected bodies to the judiciary. By law, we give people rights, and then it's the judiciary that gets responsibility and takes over part of the distribution policy. The power investigation also pointed out that decisions are being moved from national levels to international levels. We also see that the breakdown of the election has gone down, or, I guess, it's stabilized. Now, the difference between the upsurge in municipal elections and the upsurge in county elections is probably not the most dramatic – perhaps a few percentage points – but we have seen a tendency for fewer people to participate in the elections. We also see that the opening up of the political parties has fallen, they have fewer members. There are some exceptions, but generally there is a lack of integration of the political parties. As we have organized our democracy, the political parties are the foundation of this democracy. It's a challenge when the digestion fails. Nevertheless, people obviously have great confidence in the democratic bodies in this country, so the very decline in the turnout does not have to be dramatic. But we have to be on guard. Some comparative studies have been carried out in the education sector, and they show that the professional level among Norwegian students is similar to that of these PISA surveys. But in one area, Norwegian students are on top, and that is in terms of understanding democracy and being committed to defending democratic bodies and structures. It's positive in such a time. The changes that are now taking place are important, but they are not dramatic. We're not moving any milestones with this message today, let me stress it, but some important adjustments have been made, such as making it easier to access the polls, making it easier to get to two days' choice, and increasing the time of selection. There are important adjustments and important changes. The attempt to get 16-year-olds to participate in the municipal elections is also important, at least for our party. Then you can discuss the value of such an experiment in a few municipalities. But it's important to see how this will turn out, if the 16-year-olds want to participate in the election. During this great period, this is the second democratic reform – I will call it regional/local – that we have dealt with. We have the regional reform, and there we took some important steps. We strengthened the county as a planning authority. We gave some new tasks to the county council in the transport sector, in the cultural sector and in higher education. It was important to move decisions from central agencies down to the regional level. And then with this message we make some changes. What is perhaps the most important thing, as I see it, is that we underline the municipal government as a collective body. That it constitutes a collective body is important in relation to the direct election of the rapporteur. We stress that this is a collective body, and this collective body must elect rapporteur. It's an important principle that we stick to. We point out that the right to set up the local authority is also an important matter. The relationship between politicians and bureaucrats locally is important. In addition, it is important that we maintain a certain number of elected people, that it should not be easy to reduce the number of elected people, and that we grant certain rights to the minority. There are important adjustments and changes. So I think that we're going to revitalise local democracy, we need to move bigger and more important subject areas out to the local government and to the regional level.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e484	The Christian People's Party believes that decisions must be taken as close as possible to those of a democratic society. Good dialogue with citizens and best local knowledge are essential for a good decision-making basis. The municipalities therefore play an important role in our democracy. Municipalities are needed as providers of local welfare services, such as arenas for local democracy and as a government body. A good community economy is a prerequisite for good welfare. According to the Technical Calculation Committee, the growth of the local economy has been about the same during this government as under the previous one. The red-green lots try to give a different impression. As a curiosity, it can be mentioned that if one sees the entire state budget as a whole, only a microscopic proportion of increased appropriations can — approximately — be made available. 6 pst. – is explained by so-called ‘welfare over tax laws’ policies. All 94 pst. can be explained by increased use of oil money and other factors such as the increase in structural tax input. In other words, not a big piece of art. As I said, the municipality is the main provider of local welfare services. The Christian People's Party believes that the attention given to the individual user and the quality of the service offered must be focused. It may be worth noting the increasing use of competitive tendering and the use of tendering procedures in the current government. This is certainly not always the best service offered to users. I am thinking in particular of the situation of the many non-profit and non-profit organisations that have had to cease their activities in the fields of drug care, child protection and rehabilitation because of this offensive tendering policy. Increasing participation and involvement in local policies has been the overriding concern in the work of the Local Democratic Commission. A well-functioning local democracy is very important. In order to ensure democracy, we depend on broad participation in elections and through activations, involvement and representation in political bodies. More tasks should therefore be transferred from the state and closer to the most, to the counties and to the municipalities. Local politicians must be able to be held accountable. The voters must feel that a voice in the urn on election day actually means participation in important matters relating to them. The development of very many intercommunal companies can be a challenge in this respect. Municipalities use this model to exploit economies of scale, but suddenly they become directors of companies rather than elected politicians who are responsible. This is becoming a democratic problem. I believe that in several cases we would have been better served if the municipalities had rather joined forces – but this must happen voluntarily! Another challenge is if the state becomes too greedy for power. The state must govern as far as possible through a framework that increases the free movement of local authorities and strengthens local democracy. Designation of state transfers to municipalities must be minimised, but may be necessary and important in some cases. This applies in particular to new and national bets. Most of the time, however, the municipalities themselves have to decide on their money. We must ensure that the municipalities do not receive statutory tasks without adequate funding. This undermines local democracy because several priorities are moved from one local government to another. Measures that may increase electoral participation are positive. All teams of the people shall have the opportunity to participate in elections. Opportunity among young voters and immigrant groups is lower than elsewhere in the population. An additional focus on increasing voting participation among these groups is therefore welcome. Immigrants are also less members of political parties, the Stortinget and other public bodies than the rest of the population. But figures from the previous municipal election can be a positive sign of development. Statistical central agency statistics show that the number of local government representatives with backgrounds from Africa, Asia, Latin America and Eastern Europe increased from 92 in 2003 to 140 in 2007. It's joyous and something that I think will be helping to increase further participation in both elections and social inclusion in this group. It will be exciting to see whether a global event such as the presidential elections in the United States can also have a positive impact on local democracy in a country like Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e504	A unanimous committee wants local democracy to be enshrined in the constitution. The centre party has long considered this and has made several constitutional proposals, including before the deadline for such proposals during this period. Thus, the Constitution appears to have an important addition to it within four years. I think that's a pleasure! A key prerequisite for the functioning of the local government is that there is consistency between the sum of tasks and the resources available. It is important for me to stress that there is not enough money to solve the tasks that local authorities have assigned to them by the State. In addition, you have to be able to do the tasks that people have to do for their elected representatives. Without such an ‘additional economy’ to meet important local needs, people and elected people will ask what is the point. It will be worse if you also have to cut off statutory duties in order to get the ends to meet. Many local elected representatives have experienced this as a reality. Such a situation must go beyond the turnout and respect for both local and central politicians. The Centre Party considers that it is appropriate to provide for the introduction of a local income tax based on a local referendum in order to finance a defined activity. It may be an activity offer for young people or a place of residence or meeting for older people in cooperation with volunteers. We believe debates about such funding will increase the commitment to the functioning of the local government and to the personal choice. This does not mean that we have given up getting a solid enough municipal economy through decisions in Stortinget. We realize that there will always be local needs that are not captured by an income system if it is never so perfect. The local challenge shall not always be postponed! That being said, transfers from the state must be large enough and predictable enough. The majority must have confidence in local elected representatives. This room must stop adopting underfunded reforms or create expectations about a quality that we have not paid for. I think it is necessary to point out that today's consultation system between the State and KS works better than ever, but still not well enough. It's important that the KS, which represents the local elected representatives who know where the shoe prints, be met with respect. A living local government assumes that our decisions will leave the municipality to find the practical solutions. Retail management by Oslo is not popular and provides poor and expensive solutions. However, the centre party considers that it is necessary to earmark appropriations to a certain extent in order to ensure that particularly important reforms can be carried out at the same time everywhere. So a few words about the single theme in the Storing message that we have commented on in the setting. In the Centre Party, there is no mood to introduce a single election day. We believe that our own election day for local elections ensures the best for the local people's government. It is up to the parties to ensure increased focus on local issues and candidates in the local election campaign. If we get to that, the turnout will also increase. It is positive that it is now only the Progress Party that proposes to introduce a single election day. The testing scheme with voting rights for 16-year-olds will now be implemented in a small number of municipalities in the 2011 elections. To put it like that, this isn't a battle cause for the Center Party. I believe that the system of local referendums on local extra tax and other crucial issues should be legislated. The central party believes that this, together with the increased use of citizens’ initiatives, will contribute to more local policy debate. The central party will uphold the principle of the generalist municipality and is pleased that the announced municipal health reform will take place within the municipal structure we have today. We have many good examples of small municipalities cooperating well to find practical solutions to extended tasks. At the same time, there will be benefits to be gained by systematising the forms of cooperation and also in this field informing about the best experience. Finally, I would like to express my satisfaction at the fact that Norway is not a member of the EU and thus avoids the degrading remote control that this would have led to. I am pleased that a solid majority of the Norwegian people are loyally supporting the Central Party's fight against EU membership.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e530	The left is pleased that our proposal for a local democracy commission in the last period has led to a big message about local democracy. In Stortinget there are also several different proposals for a constitutional attachment to local democracy, and the Left finally sees the finish line for such a constitutional attachment. The left is for strong local democracy. It implies a high level of trust in local elected and local government. Of this, freedom and financial resources must follow to solve tasks and challenges locally. The municipal economy has been less mentioned in the notification and cancellation, of course, since the municipal proposition lays down the framework. But there is a connection between Storting's regulation and financing of the local economy beyond the horizon of an annual municipal bill. We think it's natural to stop a little bit by the big multi-annual picture – several other parties are doing it at the moment as well. In order to ensure that local self-government has the opportunity to shape social development, the Left believes that municipalities must have greater and more real economic freedom. It could mean some inequalities, but we want the diversity and local priorities. Norway does not consist of one community, but of many. The large number of national reforms and requirements for minimum standards could make Norway equal, but at the same time poor. We want to reduce the state control of local communities and not take them as hostages for national detail planning. Today, the municipal sector is regulated by some 7 000 legal paragraphs. The left has therefore started a debate in its own party on the relationship between state and municipality, as Denmark did. The Danes were both radical and courageous when they decided to set a limit of 30 pst. for the size of the country for the purposes of public welfare tasks. The Danes obviously trust local democracy – in addition, it is a very offensive district policy. The debate on trust in local democracy, the organisation of local democracy and public administration and the ongoing centralisation are also pressing ahead in this country. I think it is important to say that this big message does not address these major challenges in any way. The work of the administrative reform, which the state, and not the local democracy, has won, shows the counterpowers that rise against decentralisation. As far as the financial conditions are concerned, the Left considers that municipalities that wish to do so should receive all transfers from the State without designation. In addition, it is necessary to provide for an increased possibility of affecting the local taxpayer, increased access for local resource taxation and for the municipality to receive a share of State-imposed environmental taxes. The left also believes that today's policy provides little encouragement for municipalities to invest in industrial development, and therefore corporate tax should be returned to the municipality. The message contains a lot of good news about the future framework for the choice of local elected representatives. Testing by electronic voting is positive. The same is true of the experiment of increasing the participation of young people in elections through selected voting procedures for 16-year-olds. The left supports this. Many 16-year-olds are more politically active and committed than many more adult people. Getting a vote in local elections could stimulate continued societal involvement. We also need to ensure that we recruit and maintain a greater diversity of local elected representatives. Adult men employed in public administration are today a too dominant group in many local governments. Direct choice tests have been carried out by the rapporteur in local elections and the scheme has been popular. The left considers that each municipality must decide for itself whether it will have direct elections by the rapporteur. This can be combined with a citizen’s master’s function, where the right to vote is transferred from the administration to the elected level. A central element of democracy is that the voters themselves decide who they want as representatives, both through party democracy and the ballot. Moreover, democratic elections do not determine whether the representative has certain external characteristics, such as gender, ethnic background or orientation, but what kind of political positions the representative is defending. The left therefore wants to reintroduce the right to cancel candidates for municipal and county councils. Left will also reduce the requirement for listing by local selection. This will make it easier to set up local lists that are not linked to registered batches. A common election day for gambling and municipal and county elections will undermine local elections by overshadowing local issues by the election campaign. The left will therefore not support the proposal for a single election day. I take up the proposals of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e553	The representative of Bjørg-Irene Østrem has taken up the proposals she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e556	In the title of a strong local democracy, there are two clear meddlings. On the one hand, we have strong local democracy. The municipality and the county municipality still have an important role to play in the design of welfare services and the development of important details. The municipality is still the most important player in creating good communities where people can feel safe and prosperous. On the other hand, we want to maintain a strong local democracy and strengthen it. It's going to be even stronger. The work on this big message has a story. The final report of the final report on local democracy was presented in 2003. They said local democracy was in crisis. They pointed to scarce financial frameworks and increased legal control as evidence that the municipalities had lost their operating space. Lower voting and fewer members of the parties were other signs of this crisis. It was the origin of the creation of the Local Democracy Commission. Their work gave rise to a more optimistic view of the situation of local democracy. The local authorities have a room for action. The citizens have confidence in their local politicians, in fact to a greater extent than we do in national politicians. Local authorities also facilitate participation between options, so that people can have a direct impact on municipal decisions that apply to everyday life. Many municipalities are pioneers of democratic development in the Norwegian context. Although the selection selection has been evenly downgraded in the last few years, the last option is an exception in this way. In spite of the changing electoral process, there has been a growing local involvement among the population. Local authorities can do much for local communities within the framework of municipal self-government. Close contact between citizens and municipal and local populace provides a better basis for public sector development than the country with a long distance from its inhabitants, if they are responsible for the task-solving. There are forces today that want a Swedish-speaking community sector. A proposal is the use of state aid. Another proposal, on which someone has been involved, may be to take concrete tasks and responsibilities from the municipalities. We cannot imagine that we are in danger of getting local populaces who are responsible for blindly putting into action government policies, and becoming deprived of the possibilities that are currently developing policies on their own, or within frameworks set by the state. In this way, this big message is important, because a broad majority underlines that we want to stick to today's municipal model. Here are some concrete proposals which the Committee has commented on alternately, for the first proposal relating to the liquidation of elections. I record that there is considerable support for a minority in municipal or urban government to require longer opening hours and two days of choice. When it comes to local democracy between choices, it is, in fact, important for us to legislate the principle that local communities can hold local populations and introduce a code for collecting statistics on local populations. It is a crutch that this is not legal before, nor has it been such a home for an important institute of Norwegian local democracy. Now it's going to work out. When it comes to the organisation and strengthening of local democracy, a law now stipulates that qualified pluralities are necessary to change the number of local government representatives and that the local government will adopt new delegation regulations in the municipality during each electoral period. It should also be explicitly stated in the municipality that the local authority should decide who should give the setting in cases. The Committee has no comments on this last point, and I believe that it also has broad support.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e571	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e574	The Council of State and her party have criticized the Progress Party several times because they believe that the Advance Party designates too many funds for basic welfare services in the municipalities. They say this weakens local democracy. I see that the Council of State has repeatedly suggested the possibility of earmarking funds. Does the Council of State, including the Government, see that when they impose new tasks on municipalities without accompanying funds, they can also help to weaken local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e581	The answer to that is yes. For a long time, local authorities have been subjected to new laws that cost money without being paid for by means. It shouldn't be like that. I believe that this representative and, to the extent that a Joint Committee have been heard, I have expressed many times that the starting point is that there should be consistency between the tasks entrusted and the means put at their disposal. Then I have to say that ever more tasks and even fixed price financing requirements will be to invite local elected representatives not to consider how a question, a task, can be resolved locally, but only as an exerciser of a government policy. That's not what I call a strong local democracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e588	In one of its many performances over the years, the Party Secretary of the Workers Party, Martin Kolberg, called for a joint election day. Very well known, it is also within the Workers' Party's draft large-scale programme for the next period. Now it is that in the notes to this message only the Progress Party is left at that position. But at the same time, none of the government parties, including the Center Party, have joined the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left's note on page 15, where it is said that one is opposed to having a common election day for municipal elections and major elections. My question to the Council of State is: if the Labour Party and the Advance Party decide, as a majority, to carry out a common election day, will it be democratic that such a narrow majority will overrun the minority in such an important matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e595	It is clear from the big news that the government believes this is a question that has so many pages that it should be clarified in the individual party. Now I am not going to be tempted to call proposals from my distinguished government partners undemocratic, but what I can say is that the Central Party is disunity in the proposal that is in the Labour Party's programme. We see that common election days can both be practical and have other advantages, but we are very concerned that what can then come into focus are the central issues rather than the local issues, the local candidates, the local variants that should flourish in a local election campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e600	I would also like to address this with a common election day. It says in the message that one has not concluded in the Government, but when one invites the other parties to conclude, the other parties do. They conclude in this case. Then it remains that it is only the government that has not concluded in the process, but that has provided a big message just about local democracy. I think the representative of Brustad Moe was clear. The center part has concluded, and they've concluded wisely. It's not wise to merge election days. Why can't the government, which has worked on an important big message, conclude in such an important matter in this very message? Is it impossible to agree on the only sensible thing here: keeping the arrangement that we have today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e607	The answer to that is that we have spent time in the preparation of this big message on many other questions – we have proposed changes, both legal and other, for example. 16-year-olds can now smoke in some municipalities. Let's see if this might help to increase the selection process. Incremental selection is one of the arguments for the common value date. The Labour Party itself had a desire to discuss this at its national meeting. It's a wish that I thought it was wise to come to the meeting. The answer to that question will probably lead to different parties during the spring.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e615	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e620	In the debate it is said that this message shows that there is ‘trust’ in local policy and in local policy. That in itself is a strange statement, for who should have confidence in local politicians? Yes, there is such a centralist idea that we should have confidence in local politicians here at the Stortinget. I want to turn it upside down and say: do local politicians trust us? That would be an equally interesting question, but no one is asking it. So I sincerely hope that we end up with that kind of wording. Those who should have confidence in local politicians and those who should have confidence in us, that is the people, and it is shown by elections, election attendance, etc. So a little comment to Ib Thomsen, which says that the decisions have to be made almost as far as it goes. If it's a party that's against it and demonstrates it at this setting, then it's the Progress Party. By proposing that the money follow the person, they take away the local opportunity to dispose of the resources in different ways. This is the most centralistic idea in this setting: that the money should follow the person. We can therefore be attacked for the question of the 100-metre zone, or whether the municipalities should be allowed to decide where the slot machines are to be located, but it is, of course, debatable in relation to the dramatic fact that it will be taking away from the municipalities the right to distribute the resources – the free resources. So to a mantra that the Right time and time again serves that the county council lacks legitimacy. What does that really mean? The legitimacy will be given to you by election attendance, by election break-up. And we know that the break-up at the municipal elections and at the county elections is essentially the same, it might be dividing 2-3 pst. – 62–63 pst. at the municipal elections, a little over 60 pst. in the case of county elections. And then the limit of legitimacy goes there. They have to stop using the word legitimacy, they have to use other terms: they don't want three levels. It's an honest thing, it's a political choice. But stop using the word legitimacy, because that's not the case. So to the common election day. The government parties say we should discuss this, and for my own part, personally – we have not discussed this in the party – I would say that there are good reasons to discuss it. It is a little difficult for many people to see the relationship between flooding and municipal/communities when we have two different election days, and they do not fully see the relationship between the frameworks of the municipalities and the decisions taken in Stortinget. By adding up to one election day, you're going to be able to have some relationships that you don't have. I am not saying that we should go for a common election day, but I think there are good reasons to problematize it, there are good reasons to discuss it. That's why I think it's strange that this is now being said that we've decided this. It's not like that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e631	I registered that in the line change to the Council of State there were many who were concerned about what the Workers' Party had as a proposal in its programme on the common election day. It is true that we have a common election day as part of the programme proposal, but it is also an important one in terms of the common election day. So I'm simply asking for respect for the Workers' Party to discuss a common election day at its national meeting – and then we're going to come back with what we end up with. But at least we're going to have peace and quiet to debate what we're going to mean on that matter. The representative of Røe Isaksen also brought it up with local maritime administration, and that it had become smaller in some municipalities. I fully agree with that, but that does not mean that there is more power in the Storting in that case. What is the problem in local government is that politicians choose to delegate too much responsibility and political power to the administration. Then there will be less local maritime administration, I totally agree with that, and that's one of the things we have to deal with and change. I know a lot of politicians in local government who are frustrated that there are no issues for political treatment. Why don't you get it? Well, that's because you've delegated too much away from politics. Local government politicians must wake up and take policy back! That is why it is very good that we get the delegation regulations to be dealt with once in a period. It is very important to address the policy again. If a local government has delegated too much, the parties will be very similar, and then it will often be very difficult to get people to understand what is really politics, and what is administration. In some municipalities, the administration usually decides the most. It is politically elected, in fact, and it is very regrettable. Therefore, it is important to get this back that there should be a review in each period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e640	I have one comment on the proposal on the common election day. There may be interesting reading of the local democracy commission’s attitude. She shows that there are different views, even internally, in different parties. The more exciting it is that some parties now leave this a matter at their national meeting. Then there have been some other issues raised here. One is the income of the municipal sector under the previous government and under this government. I realize that there can be people from both the Christian People's Party and the Right who are tired of speaking in that field. But it is that when things are to be settled at the end of the year, there will be a sum of well over 30 billion dollars in transfers from today's government to the local government, towards 19 billion dollars under the previous government. There's something more than $1 billion, in my way of calculating it. It is also true that at one time the SSB operated with 45 600 more annual works – that was after the third quarter last year. I think we can be a few that there are a few more years' work, a few more kindergartens, a few more hospitals and different other reinforcements during this period. Then it's amazing to record that there's someone who claims to be more concerned about local democracy than others, but who in other respects will cut the third elected level, which today represents the populace from a whole state to make decisions in important areas for the inhabitants. They also don't go off the road to stumble against today's municipal structure, and they maintain that trust is important. They need to know that trust in local populace and also the uprising of elections is greater in smaller municipalities than in large ones. In the end, I might have thought that there were a few more questions about the follow-up of voting procedures in local elections for 16-year-olds. It has been a pleasure to record that there has been a great deal of interest from spokesmen and from local government that is very different from political groups. There are trials that we are now preparing and going out with the offer after the decision today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e653	The promotion party is criticised by SV because it is intended to ensure basic welfare services for the inhabitants of municipalities, such as health, care for the elderly and school. So it's debatable that the municipalities are forced into new rules by Stortinget. Many municipalities are tied to their hands and feet in the field of business development, such as shopping center expansion and construction in the beach zone – whether housing or leisure properties. SV calls it trivial to crush local self-government in these important areas. Then you can't separate ropes and bars to see what's important for local democracy. We believe, as I mentioned, that the important thing for local democracy is that citizens get good services in health, school and care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e662	I believe that most of the representatives in this Chamber, whether permanent members or alternates, are familiar with the essence of the democratic process. At least I've got the impression that it's a discussion. I am aware that discussion is important. It's important to break up, and dialogue and discourse are important, but it's also a point of some sort of conclusion. It may not be unimportant that after discussing the matter, you too come to a conclusion! What is interesting about the posts of the government parties and the particular Workers' Party is that it is presented as if the whole of political Norway should press a collective pause button in the discussion on the common election day – for the sake of the need of the Workers' Party to discuss this in-house. This means that at least I wonder whether this matter is really motivated by the discussion of a common election day – for the Central Party’s opposition to a common election day – or whether this is really about keeping calm and order internally in the Government. In that case, there's a reason that's a quite different and much less satisfactory than the one that's been given from this pulpit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e669	I took the floor to explain to the representative Rolf Requam why the Right believes that the county council does not have the necessary legitimacy. A clear expression is that the turnout in the county elections is significantly lower than the turnout in the municipal elections. The second is that the municipalities, i.e. the local politicians in the municipalities, have shown that the decisions of the county councils do not have the necessary legitimacy without the decisions being anchored in decisions that actually come from the municipalities in advance. This is seen very clearly in spatial planning, where the legitimacy of the county councils' participation in spatial planning is rooted in the fact that individual municipalities have agreed in advance. One also sees that the municipalities, despite the fact that we have a popular third level, have built up a regional infrastructure with cooperation between municipalities to solve the tasks that Stortinget really thought the county council was going to do, among other things. in the fields of industrial development, spatial planning and regional instruments. Then one must also see that the vast majority we now have, and the Government, have proved that they do not see that the county council has the necessary legitimacy either, because they had to carry out a regional reform that was to transfer significant tasks to the counties, to new regions, but it ended with a stomach pad in which it was actually only ‘pottel’ that was transferred. It shows that the county as a popularly elected level has neither legitimacy in the municipalities, in the inhabitants, nor in the state. This is also the starting point for the Right to believe that the most sensible thing is to put down the county municipality as a popularly elected level and get bigger and more robust municipalities that have legitimacy both in the population and in state authorities. Then to the Council of State and municipal economy. I expect the Council of State to look forward to tomorrow's Municipal Report, entitled «Better than Erna», which is the title of the Commentary of the Municipal Report on the KOSTRA figures, which was presented yesterday. What is clearly stated by the Technical Calculation Committee is that the clearest expression of the municipality's financial autonomy is the annual results provided by the municipalities. The annual results of the municipalities for 2008 are historically poor. The red-green government took over a sector in balance, with clear profits, an actual annual profit of 3.6 pst. Now it's minus 0.4 pst. The government took over a municipal sector in balance but left a bankruptcy dwelling with the new government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e678	Rolf Rikvam has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e681	It is obvious that Ib Thomsen has not understood the difference between managing the funds from the central level and being subject to local/regional priorities. Of course, we are in favour of ensuring welfare services, by granting a sum to be shared by local politicians, cf. Today’s magazine – Ib Thomsens and my local people – shows that the municipalities have different priorities. Some focus more on education, some more on care, etc. And then we get differences. That's what local priorities are, and that's what we want, unlike deciding from a central point of view. Then to county legitimacy. I fundamentally disagree with Bent Höie when he says that state politicians should have their legitimacy from the local politicians. What kind of system are we talking about? We are talking about different political levels, and the politicians who are at different levels get their support from people through elections. When the county councils adopt their input into regulatory plans, it is based on regional plans and not on municipal plans. It has to be obvious to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e688	I will not go into debate now on the county council. It has not been long since we adopted the law for the new administrative reform, and I find it not appropriate to continue that discussion. Here we are simply disagreeing – really disagreeing. What made me take the floor now is the rather peculiar way Bent Höie chooses to produce the local economy. I have to remind you that the main reason – the clear reason – for 2008 for many municipalities to become a difficult year when looking at the results of the accounts is large losses on funds. It has been said to have generated negative numbers in Kommune-Norway, which we've seen almost everywhere else in society. Not least we see that the government has lost money on funds – not so little either. So this goes directly into the municipal economy. Fortunately, we have made arrangements, so that those who have had the biggest losses have the opportunity to lubricate this a little more than several years. I just have to remind you that since we took over, the real increase in the total income is over NOK 30 billion, if one compares the last year of the Bondevik government crashed, and 2009. And if you look at annuals that say something about the efforts made to the population, there are almost 35,000 more annual works than when we took over. If one compares to the period when Erna Solberg was the municipal minister, there was a decline in the number of posts of about 1,400 years. If we look at the number of people employed, it's about. 48 000 more, and this is because we have put a real focus on the kindergarten sector, and that we have also made up in the care sector. We have further ambitions to improve the quality, so that Kommune-Norway will get good drag help from a red-green government over the next four years as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e697	Last weekend, Sogn and Fjordane Labour Party had an annual meeting. They adopted a resolution that I believe the municipal minister may already have got on his table, on the municipal and county economy. It is pointed out from the representative, Hagebakken, that the reason why it went so badly in 2008 was that the municipalities and county councils lost money on speculation in funds. It's right for some municipalities, but not for everyone. Not everyone has speculated in axes and things. Only look at what has happened when one has adopted the budget for 2009 in Sogn and Fjordane, and record all the proposals for the closure of schools, the closure of health and care settings, etc. One can also walk around and count the number of basins that have been watered after this government has taken over the country. The representative, Reikvam, wondered how it was possible to trust us with the people. Yeah, we'll do that when there's a choice. I represent a party that seemed to have reasonable coverage to claim that people have good confidence in us. If we're to take into account polls, we have very good confidence. Then the representative Rikvam gets to assess his position and SV's position, and what confidence they have from the people. So it was shown that local politicians have to take power back from the administration. That's exactly what I'm saying. I thought that representatives from the government parties should send a signal to their respective local politicians and tell them that they must vote for it. I know the municipalities of Sogn and Fjordane best and how it stands out there, and it's very difficult for the Progress Party to get multiple numbers to take power back from the administration. It has the other people want to stay there, so don't blame them for what's going on. When it comes to public additions, I have several times taken up this with the Minister of Municipal Affairs, which goes on several occasions in the care sector, and shown what is wrong with the numbers that have been entered. I want to ask the council to notice it and look closer to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e709	It was Hagebakken's contribution to the community economy that made me take the floor again. It is obvious that the government and government parties are now trying to blame the financial crisis for the situation in the municipal sector, because then one can in a way create a picture that this is something that comes from outside, for which the government is not responsible. It's a basic mistake. When the municipal councillor at the municipal report’s website today says that 2008 was an exceptional year, it is also a fundamental error. The derogation year was 2006. This government had a significant investment in the municipal sector in 2006. As a result, in 2006 the local government sector had exceptionally high results and strong growth. This also created an expectation in the municipal sector that growth would continue. It didn't. In 2007, there was a decrease in the free income. In 2008, there was a decrease in the free income. So the year of the derogation for this government in the municipal sector was 2006. The 2008 deficit is largely linked to the simple fact that revenue is not in line with expenditure, and the reason for this is among others. the strong cost growth resulting from the growth in 2006 and that the Government has not followed up on this in 2007 and 2008. If we compare these two periods, we get to these 30 billions, which are constantly drawn out. Yeah, it was just supposed to be missing. If the government had not followed up and increased the appropriations for the local government sector, there would have been a real decline in the local authorities' ability to make an offer. It is precisely demographic and task developments in the municipal sector that have driven up these costs. If one compares the growth of the two periods corrected for demography and cost growth, the growth of the previous government was 4.2 pst, while the growth of now under this government has been 4.3 pst. That's what I call almost the same thing in such a big sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e718	It's actually kind of nice that a debate on local democracy ends up giving municipalities the greatest possible economic space for action. When it comes to national frameworks and local possibilities, I'm here enough to know that there's going to be a lot of debate coming forward on different issues that are being presented by different state councils in this room, and it's nice and important that we both in government and in general are occupied with the local space of action. So when it comes to the economy, it's for the first time in the SSB's used number -- 45 600 employees -- a smaller number in the annual work, that Tore Hagebakken was in. In addition, I have not used the word ‘exempt’ in the Municipal Report. I record that from time to time I am being quoted a little misleading, but I hope it appears in the Municipal Report that I have used three main reasons for the situation in 2008. The only thing is that the activity has its heights. The second is that the costs have been much higher for the municipal sector than for growth, government and municipalities themselves. Then the third is that there are some municipalities that have lost their financial positions. TBU, Technical Calculation Committee, says that the municipal sector should have 3 pst. operating results over time. If we sum up the numbers that are leading so far – now they are just enough temptation, even if they came yesterday – the number over three years is 2.8 pst. approximately 3 pst. It doesn't mean that everything is as good per. date in the local government sector. There are wide variations for municipalities here. There is a difference between keeping Oslo inside or outside, keeping the municipalities inside or outside. For me, it's like when it's about the economy, that I'm humble in relation to the situation that the municipalities have. I am pleased that, hopefully, it will be possible to consolidate the position now in 2009, because we have submitted, and have been agreed, the proposal to increase the framework then.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e727	I'm not going to continue the economic discussion indefinitely, but I feel like I have to comment on what Bent Höie said. Instead of being as sensitive to the offensive as Bent Höie is, and when he presents the figures that can be found, which can put the government in a somewhat more favourable light than it strictly might deserve, I think Bent Höie should have thanked the Workers' Party and the Advance Party for the considerable contributions, in each of his rounds, a gift to bring Bent Höie & Co. So let's think about the percentages that you can stand here and sign with. Otherwise it would have been completely different percentages to refer to also in the statistics that Bent Höie and Right choose to use. So it goes with the story that the Right has not in Stortinget proposed more money to the municipalities than this government has proposed. But it's really quite sensational that the right at all is agreeing to go in for as much money as we've gone in for. But why does the right do that? Well, because they can use our welfare money because it wasn't taxed, as Right wanted, but more money for well-being. Well, that's -- I've heard a little bit different numbers, so I'll be a little careful -- somewhere between 11 and 13 billion dollars a year. So it's very nice that the Right is also involved and they use the funds, but they're going to thank some of us for being there at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e734	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 3 and 4 are dealt with as a whole and consider it to be adopted. [[See page 2321]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e763	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e772	First of all, I would like to say that it has been a privilege to be the rapporteur on this matter. Today, Stortinget deals with the government's proposal to strengthen housing support. This Communication is not only a good social housing policy but also an important part of the Government’s work against public poverty. The housing aid is an effective tool because it targets those who have both low income and high housing costs. Many disadvantaged people today cannot receive housing support because of strict rules. Following the proposals, all, with the exception of students without children and military, shall be able to receive housing support if they meet the requirements for needs testing. In practice, this will mean that up to 50,000 more households can receive housing support. Of these new recipients, about 10,000 will be families with children. The new proposals will in the long term increase the appropriations for housing aid by DKK 1 billion. In 2008, approx. 106 000 households were granted housing allowances, and approximately NOK 2.5 billion were paid. This provides a basis for saying that the scheme is now significantly strengthened. The amendment provides a significantly simpler regulatory framework. The threshold for getting housing support is lowered, so that far more than today are eligible for support. The income limit will be raised. The requirement that persons living on their own must be secure in order to receive housing support is removed. Couples with no children or low income alone may also apply for help to cope with their living expenses. The beneficiaries of housing aid under the new scheme will not be excluded from the scheme if they take up paid work. This can contribute to increasing participation in the labour market. A good and safe place to stay may be a necessary condition for many people to apply for a job. We know that today. The changes also mean that housing aid will be much better matched with the loans and grant schemes of the Husbank. Several can establish themselves in owner-occupied housing, financed by a combination of housing support, basic loans, start-up loans and, where appropriate, housing grants. As of 1 July this year, about 50,000 new households will be able to receive housing support. This will be a big day for all those who are concerned with the fight against poverty. Housing is a very targeted measure for those who really need it. That's why it's tightening up for those who have wealth. But it's an important exception. Housing wealth we know protects more than other wealth, so the government's proposal to strengthen housing support will also be of great help to young people and others with weak economies that establish themselves in their own housing. Those who are struggling with high rents and high interest rates on mortgages will also get it easier. Let me make it clear: everyone is entitled to a safe and good housing situation. This effort must be seen in the context of the desire to reduce the number of people with disabilities in the housing market and to put an end to housing unemployment. The boute poison bar is the upper limit of the boute poisons that are considered in the housing frame. Large urban municipalities, such as: Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger, Trondheim, Kristiansand and Tromsø will still have a higher bout toll roof than the rest of the country. It will also have the municipalities around these cities. The income limits are increased so that several families with children can receive housing support. With this proposal, a family of four living outside the press areas will fall out of the housing aid scheme if the income exceeds NOK 245000 per year. year, against NOK 194000 with the current housing aid scheme. In Oslo, the limit for such a family increases from NOK 219 000 to NOK 272 000. This is a happy message for all the disadvantaged families who are now struggling with poverty. This is very good for those who have difficulty, and I would like to welcome this message.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e789	Having security for owner-occupancy is probably the whole basis for having the opportunity to move on in life, to get out of poverty and get into work. Feeling an uncertainty about the housing situation, feeling an uncertainty about paying the rent or housing bill next month, I think that a user so much energy and forces it that there is little possibility of concentrating on other things. This means that the housing support system may be the most important system we have to reach those who have a poor economy in Norway and need the help and support of society. The housing support system has worked well for some, but there have been some rules relating to the housing support system that have turned out completely unfairly. In the last eight years, there has been a continuous improvement in the system, but with the decisions we are making today, we are removing the last unreasonable rules relating to the system. The two that appear to be most pointless are the functional requirement and the funding requirement. The first one is that one, for example. requires a dwelling stand to be provided, an apartment must contain a separate kitchen, living room, bathroom and bedroom. It appears today to be a requirement that makes it very difficult, for example: to be able to obtain housing and live in the middle of a city centre. This, of course, prevents those who want to live near the job and who do not have a car. In that case, the functional requirements of the housing aid scheme have in fact had no function other than that it has kept some people who would otherwise be entitled to housing support outside the scheme. The same applies to the funding requirement. For example, if a flat is to be rented, it is a requirement that the house in which a tenant rents the sock apartment should initially be financed by the house bank. It is a completely unreasonable claim that has excluded some of the most difficult in the housing market from receiving housing support. One has had examples of people who are very disadvantaged in the housing market being able to rent an apartment with acquaintances. Then they have got no because the house in which the apartment is, initially was not financed by the House Bank. That is a completely unreasonable claim. The improvements that the Government has made are therefore very good improvements. There is reason to congratulate the Minister of State for presenting a case which involves a significant improvement in the housing support system and which, in my view, is the most important contribution of this government to combating poverty. Many of these proposals follow up on proposals made by the Right in its alternative State budgets and in its Document No. The 8 that we now have to deal with. It is therefore very good to see that there is a broad political support for this improvement of the housing support system, which I think too many will mean establishing a security and a basis related to residence that allows them to use their personal resources to move on in life in terms of work and other activities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e800	We will deal with this matter for the first time during the treatment of the State budget. That is where we adopted the framework for the scheme and the extension of the framework. Now we adopt the more detailed rules. Let me first express my satisfaction that we are now getting what I want to call a power roof for the housing support system. These are perhaps the most effective measures we have to combat poverty. At the same time, there's reason for some reflections when we're operating on numbers. We know that this change we're now making will mean that 50,000 more people come under the housing aid scheme. That's good and right, let me underline it. At the same time, there is reason to reflect on the great differences that exist in our society. We haven't been able to even out the differences in our society. We've created many new ones in the last 10–15 years. We still have too many people who have to deal with relatively little. This is not a development that we want. Some of us don't want it at least, and we think this is unfortunate. Then we have to put in place measures, and then housing support is such a measure. It's the safest thing to do. The changes that we're now making are good and correct. Several will, as I said, come under the scheme. The roof to come under the scheme is lifted. Still, you have to have relatively low income, almost at the limit of what you can survive on, to get under the scheme. I record that the Right wants to lift the roof even more. These are things we need to discuss in the future. There is also reason to fear that even more than 50,000 people whom we estimate in this message and the setting will need housing support at a time when unemployment is increasing. I want reason to fear that even more will come under this scheme. It's good when they have a real need. The changes in legislation mean that we are better treated in a non-discriminatory way. This means that someone who currently has a better system — it was mentioned that groups with different disabilities and disabilities — may get worse. But we've clarified in the setting and in the announcement that something worse is coming out compared to today's system, the goal is to keep the arrangements or goods they've had. So collectively, this is good and correct. It is an important tool in the fight against poverty, while giving rise to a number of reflections that are not always as pleasant to take on, namely that we still have a society with too many differences.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e813	Own housing is about the quality of life of the individual. Own housing is one of the most important welfare goods in society because it gives dignity. In Norway, we have a high standard of living. But there are some people who don't have a fixed dwelling for different reasons. One of the main reasons is poor economy – poverty. The main objective of the Christian People's Party in housing policy is therefore to facilitate a stable housing market in which everyone can have the opportunity to live in owner-occupied dwellings. Housing aid is one of several important instruments in housing policy. The housing aid is good because it is about helping those who have both low income and high housing costs. We have been waiting a while for the Government's efforts to renew and modernise the housing support system. To say it like this, it's coming late, but it's coming well. In several state budgets, the Christian People's Party, together with the Right and Left, has proposed strengthening and changing the system. The government went high in the last election campaign and told them to eradicate poverty in Norway. It's an important goal, but I think the red-green parties have learned that some things are easier said than done. But today an important grip is being taken. A review and improvement of housing support is a step in the right direction in eradicating poverty. We've got the proposition on the table almost four years after the election campaign, and the proposed changes will give 50,000 new recipients of the housing support. Of these, approx. 10,000 are families with children. It welcomes the Christian People's Party. It is important that the most disadvantaged in the housing market, which is currently outside the housing support scheme, can be included. It is proposed that all those with low income and high living costs, other than military and civil servants, may receive housing support if they otherwise meet the requirements. Luckily, the requirement for housing to be financed by the Husbank is removed for all applicant groups. Income limits are increasing for families with children, which means that this extension will lead to housing support for several families with children. But there is something Christian People's Party and the opposition disagrees. We do not want to support the proposal for tightening up the system with additions to the roof of the press areas. We're asking why this is done, what causes you to narrow down into areas where the housing prices are extra high. The Christian People's Party has long called for modernisation and investment in housing support. The changes that are being made today are in line with the proposals we have made earlier in relation to the treatment of government budgets and municipal budgets. We support the main features of the proposition, but we would point out that they are legally late. Finally, we have a small concern that the conversion from young people to young people can lead to someone getting worse, and would like to have a clear guarantee from the Council of State that that is not the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e830	Left supports the Government's proposals for changes to the legislation on state housing aid and increased rates. The time has definitely come to modernise the legislation on which types of housing can provide housing support. Many with poor finances live in homes that do not necessarily have separate rooms for sleeping and eating. There are still very many apartments that do not have their own kitchen and bedroom. Moreover, income levels have been too low, and many families with children and the elderly have fallen outside the scheme. It is important to ensure that as much as possible there is a stable housing situation. Together with other schemes, such as: start-up loans, changes in housing support, increased rates, may allow more people to retain or purchase their own housing. This may mean fewer homeless and poor, but that's not the whole answer. The left wants primarily a citizen's wage, a guaranteed minimum income, initially for long-term beneficiaries of social assistance. We want the salary to be 2.5 G, approx. NOK 155 000 and that it is considered taxable income. The consequence of this will be, in practice, the standardisation of social assistance rates across the country. By keeping the housing support outside, it is up to the individual municipality to adjust the costs of living. It's obviously cheaper to live in Vadsø than in Oslo. Otherwise, the cost of living is calculated to be the same. The left believes that such guaranteed minimum income is important for the dignity of those who need help from the state and the municipality during a period of life. In addition, the scheme will be less bureaucratic, both for users and for the State. Another challenge for the poor and the homeless is access to housing. Today, too few dwellings are built to suit them with low or no income. Here, the country needs to stimulate and contribute to more and more adapted housing and make it easier for non-governmental organisations to build and operate housing for these. Several dwellings with a low economic threshold and housing guidance are important measures in this context.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e841	Today, the Storing makes a historic decision. There are about 100,000 households that are receiving housing support today. After 1 July, there will be 50,000 more who will have that possibility. So 50,000 new households can mean a city of the same size as Stavanger, full of individuals who want to be able to insert the key into a safer home. I thank you for the good words that have come in connection with this matter. I understand that someone has waited a long time – it sounds as if they have waited about as they themselves left the government. Then it's all the better that the system is now being implemented, by broad agreement. It is quite right, as has been said here, that this is a measure that solves all problems for those with a low income – far from it. But while both growth and government over several years have led to what we may call climbing and patching on bumps, resulting in improvements year by year, we are now laying down a principle that will be of great importance, namely that those to be assessed for supports should have low revenues and high construction costs. That's the starting point. Then students and military have their own arrangements. It is gratifying to know that now people will not be able to cope if they do not have children, if they are insured, if the dwelling is more than 40 m2, if they have an own door to the kitchen or bedroom, or if the dwelling is funded by the House Bank or not. Treating equivalence will also mean much simpler rules, which in turn have meaning for users, for municipalities and for the state. So that's the important thing, one point: more equivalent treatment. So we're increasing the income limits, which many people here have been in. It benefits families of children and others, but it is quite obvious that when a family of four outside a press area gets an increase in income, from NOK 194,000 to NOK 245000, and the corresponding figures for Oslo are from NOK 219,000 to NOK 272,000, it matters. It also has the fact that we are removing what has been practiced today when it concerns young people and their own income. So, in addition, Born should be able to pay up to NOK 30000 without going into the calculation of the bumper. So let's add up the roof, and we'll take new municipalities under this roof. The question that has been asked is why take is now set as they are, and what new municipalities have been entered. The simple answer is that we have found it necessary to build our proposals for new ceilings on objective statistics. So it's not understanding or seeing, it's objective statistics. That's also what makes us from the Government's side suggest increasing Bærum limits, compared to the minority. For young people: those who received support before conversion receive a guarantee against lower performances as a result of changing special rules. Collecting payments to the group will be 45 million. kr higher than today. Simplifications are something that disabled people’s organisations themselves have asked for. Then there are also new rules for wealth. There remains a question that the Government has said it will come back to, and it relates to the relationship between a very good social security resolution in 2008 and housing support. So we're going to get back to that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e863	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e866	As I've been about, this is a joyous matter. There are also some restrictions on the matter, and most of them are also well justified. But it is clear that some people will experience that the housing support is getting smaller – you see it – and that one is not left with more money than one does now. In the case, there is a reduction in social assistance, a change in financial assets, a reduction in the roof of large cities, new rules for young people who are disabled and a major change in the stencil of warming. With regard to the changes in the ceiling for some municipalities, it is not difficult to join the extension proposed by the Government in the municipalities to enter. What is more difficult to understand is the reason for the reduction in the ceiling applied to some municipalities. I would like to ask the Council of State a little bit more about what is the reason for the reduction in the amount that has been made for some municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e873	First of all, I think it's very good that the Right is so positive to the changes that are made. I've seen that Right has seen it as if we've fulfilled Document No right here. The 8 from the Right. I assume that Bent Höie is aware that we had started our work long before they made their proposal. But there are simple answers to the question of roof. First, the roof is not reduced in any municipality. And Oslo will have a roof that's taller, which is $1,000 taller than today, so no one's going to notice that the roof is going to be reduced. Once we've made the adjustments we've made, it's simply – say and write – because we've gone in and looked at what the statistics say when it comes to costs. That's what makes us realize that there's not the difference between Oslo and Bærum that former governments have made.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e881	I'll try with two questions to the Council of State. The first is that it's so hard to understand that one tightens into the press areas, when it's not that the roof has gone down. There is still a large difference between housing prices in the press areas and in the rest of the country, and both the prices of buying owner-occupied dwellings and rental prices have remained very high and increased in the press areas. It is therefore difficult to understand the simple answer to the Council of State. My second question is to get an overview of the contractions. When you see it from the outside, it's very much positive, but it's a conversion, and it's hard to see who this can hit. So my question is, can the Council of States guarantee that there are no groups other than those that had to be hit where a person is tightening up in relation to wealth, and those that had to be hit there are changing in relation to the areas of pressure? Is there anyone else affected by what is being tightened up in the scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e890	So if you increase a roof by $6,000, and at the same time you're going to decrease by $5,000, you're going to get $1,000. It applies to metropolitan areas. This means that it's not about a reduction for the individual, unless there may be other elements that turn in here, for example. the adjustments we have made in financial assets and the way they count. Then I understand that both the Dryersdal and others are busy getting an overview of the individual calculations. I can promise that it has been a nine-time job to count on a system that is not to frame, and that is not to frame the unintended. So we got a question from the Storting that we got so short of time that we didn't have the ability to deliver – I think I'll say it that way. If something unexpected came up, I'll be the first to take the initiative to clean it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e897	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e900	I'm glad that a unanimous growth today joins the Government's proposal to provide housing support to many more. It is an important contribution to countering poverty, reducing the number of homeless people and helping disadvantaged people to settle in owner-occupied housing. Each of the new beneficiaries will receive an average of NOK 20 000 per year. This will be a more accurate system, and individuals with the lowest income and the highest housing costs will receive housing support. The annual impact of the new scheme is approximately One million. Extra kroner. It is gratifying that a new NOVA report concludes that there is a positive interaction between the various housing social instruments to achieve the objectives set. For many there will be a combination of housing support and start-up loans from the Husbank that enable them to own their own housing. This year, the house bank will have increased its loan framework by NOK 2 billion, and we know that many municipalities are active in helping people with start-up loans, so that those who receive housing support for renting housing can become owner-occupiers. This is especially important in the period we're in today. Overall, an active housing policy at a much higher level is being implemented in 2009. I'll still challenge the right at one point. They're very positive to the new plan. Nevertheless, I wonder why they did not even find room for an improved housing support scheme when they were in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e911	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e914	It wasn't because of the last post I took the floor, but I can answer the challenge. The answer is that all government budgets submitted by the Bondevik II government included improvements in the housing support scheme. Then a housing scheme improved every year. The only municipal minister who has submitted a government budget without improvements to the housing support system recently is Minister of State Åslaug Haga of the Senterpartiet. Also the Right has, in general, proposed these improvements that are now being presented, not only in document No. The 8-proposal that was dealt with in parallel, but also in both of our last two alternative state budgets, and I would think that at least the first of these was submitted before the Government had seriously started working on this scheme. But what made me take the floor was the answer from the municipal minister on my reply, because on the basis of that answer, a few of the impressions could be that there was no reduction in the ceiling for individual municipalities. But there is a reduction in the roof in Oslo of NOK 5000, in Bergen, Trondheim and Stavanger of NOK 5000, and also in Kristiansand, Tromsø and Drammen of NOK 5000. If there is no reduction in the ceiling of NOK 5000 in those places, I have to ask the Minister of State to explain it to me, because then I have not understood what is in the proposition correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e923	The building cost in Oslo today is NOK 80000 and will be increased by NOK 1000. That means that Oslo keeps a higher hold, as they've already been. In addition, in many municipalities around Oslo and Stavanger, the roof increases considerably more, for example. with NOK 21 000 in Bærum, NOK 16 000 in Asker, Skedsmo, Frogn, Lørenskog, Oppegård, Nesodden, Sola and Sandnes. Otherwise, the ceiling will increase by NOK 6 000. I hope this was clarifying. But the point is that we have taken care of what statistics say about building costs. Based on that, we've calculated new roofs. It is not as it is produced that the citizens of Oslo who are now looking for support must operate with a lower roof than they have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e935	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 3 and 4. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e943	The size goes to voting in case No. 2–4 on today’s map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e952	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left-wing proposals No. 2-6, by Ib Thomsen on behalf of the Progress Party, proposals Nos. 7 and 8, from Bjørg-Irene Eastrem on behalf of Left It is first voted on the proposals from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e987	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2–6, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e1028	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the amendment of the municipal law and the electoral law allowing the local council to decide whether they want the direct election of the rapporteur.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-17.ana.ud912e1197	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
