ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e33	The President will propose the election of two presidents for Odelstingen’s meetings today and for the rest of February – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Svein Roald Hansen and Marit Nybakk. – Other proposals are not available, and Svein Roald Hansen and Marit Nybakk are unanimously elected presidents of Odelstinget’s meetings this month.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e58	The Presidency proposes to transfer the administration of the Stortinge pension scheme from the Pensions Board of the Stortinge to the State Pension Fund. The background to the proposal is a recommendation from the Board of Pensions after the criticism raised in the expert committee report, appointed to review the payments made by the pension scheme. The expert committee pointed out several factors that it considered problematic in the administration of the scheme, such as lack of supervision and control, and the lack of adequate competence and robustness of the pension scheme. The Pensions Board therefore recommended that the responsibility for managing the scheme be transferred to the Staten Pensionkasse as soon as possible. The Presidency adheres to the recommendation of the Board of Pensions. The State Pension Fund already knows the Storting pension scheme to some extent, and has a professional environment and expertise that will give us a reassuring and professional handling of pension matters. The pension fund also administers the pension scheme for government councils. As regards applications for waiting compensation, the Presidency considers that these should continue to be dealt with by a separate body in Stortinget as the ‘employer’ of the representatives. It is proposed that the decision-making authority in such cases be added to the Presidency when the Board of Pensions ceases to function. I mention otherwise, for the sake of order, that the proposal submitted does not change the mandate of the County Pensions Committee, led by Sigbjørn Johnsen. The selection is expected to deliver its report with proposals for a new pension scheme for, inter alia: the grossing-up representatives during the current session, so that the Storting will also be dealt with before the Storting goes apart. In this context, both the rules on pension conditions and the question of how to administer the scheme in the future will be assessed. This recommends the unanimity of the presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e71	It is a unanimous presidency that presents its position, and SV has a parallel view of what President Berit Brørby has said. At the same time, it is important for us to stress that we have argued for a long time for a review of the existing pension schemes. We look forward to the setting of the Sigbjørn Johnsen Committee, and see it as important that it be followed up. For us, it is also important to stress that we have full respect for the fact that the Board of Pensions has made a proposal that the Presidency is following, and that the solutions chosen here will apply until the Sigbjørn Johnsen Committee has presented its position. However, as Berit Brørby also emphasised, it would not mean that the work of the Sigbjørn Johnsen Committee was carried out in such a way that one is not open to conclusion only after the selection has provided the setting. In the case of the State Pension Fund, you have checked against the sample. It seems obvious that this is in line with the attitudes of the sample, so that a solution that appears appropriate is chosen here, including from the work of the sample. I've been in contact with the Department of Renewal and Administration and the Council of State there. It is important to stress that when the State Pension Fund is to take over the work of assessing pensions, it is of course based on the legal framework and the law that exists, the assessments are to be made and independent assessments are to be made. Otherwise, SV looks forward to addressing future pension entitlements when the Pensions Committee is done with its work. For us, it will be important to bring about harmonisation of gross domestic product pensions, so that there are pension schemes that will be as close as possible to the pension schemes that apply to others in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e86	This is a matter that has been both bad and difficult – not only for those who have been victims of a lack of law and unclear legislation, but also for the Storting as an institution. The reason why we now have this matter for discussion in Odelstinget today is, as has been said before, a letter dated 14 January 2009 from the Swedish Board of Pensions to the Presidentship of Stortingen. I will come back to it a little later. First, I would like to point out that when the Board of Pensions first became familiar with the first and preliminary report to the Riksrevision in May last year, the board immediately took a step and asked in the form of a decision for a complete review of this matter. When the final report came from the Riksrevision, there were unfortunately more unfortunate circumstances, not least that several recipients of the Storting pension scheme were produced in the media as recipients of an unaccompanied pension. I am very sorry, even though this information did not come from the County Pensions Board or the Stortinge Board, as far as I am aware. There's every reason for the media to apologize to those who experienced this powerful media focus. The expert report also concluded that some of these had also not received a pension that was contrary to the Code. On 8 January this year, the expert committee report was presented. The expert selection report concluded with both strong criticism of the content of the promise and the practice of it. The conclusion was that the pension scheme lacks supervision and control, as it was based on a trust relationship. The management of pension schemes lacked competence and was not robust. There were bad procedural practices, and the laws were not in line with social developments and changes or pension and social legislation. I want to make it clear: this sounds very bad. But basically, the pension scheme has worked very well, so I want to interpret the Expert Committee's report as a deviation report. Nevertheless, the Pensions Board took the criticism very seriously and thought it was important to have an objective assessment of and legitimacy in the further proceedings. For the future, we would avoid claims about the goat and oatmeal. That is why we took the initiative to shift the management responsibility and administration of the scheme from Stortinget to the State Pension Fund, which has both competence and legitimacy. It shows that Stortinget takes responsibility for the situation. Last autumn, the Board of Pensions called for matters relating to pension issues to be handled and administered by an independent body. The expert selection report is very critical to the robustness of the system. Errors and absences of the Storing Scheme make this necessary. It is a collective responsibility of the Stortinget to clean up so that no questions are asked about the quality of the treatment. Therefore, the Board of Pensions took an initiative before the Presidency to change Section 10 of the Act, i.e. to move the administration from the County Pensions Board to the State Pensions Fund, which was also in line with the recommendation made by the Expert Committee. I am pleased that the Presidency is now following the letter of the Board of Pensions, and that the case is being dealt with quickly, which means that there is no delay in the handling of the matters that both the Riksrevision and the Expert Committee concluded were not in accordance with law and regulation. That is why I am glad that the changes in the laws that Odelstinget is now going to adopt today will come into force immediately. When it comes to dealing with issues of waiting compensation, I agree that this discretion-based scheme is being taken care of by the Storting itself through the Presidency when the Pensions Board is now laid down. Otherwise, I show that a total revision of the Storting's pension scheme will be treated after the selection led by Sigbjørn Johnsen has submitted its selection setting to Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e112	This has been a demanding case both for Stortinget and for the Pension Board, but it is also good that Odelstinget today adopts a new law for the pension scheme, which means that the administration is moved out of Stortinget. The expert committee, which presented its report now in January, has proposed such a solution. The report is not a pleasant reading. There are many and many things that have been wrong for a long time. And many people have to share the responsibility that the pension scheme has got to live its own life without anyone cleaning it up. The report clearly shows that the Stortinget should have left the grant and payment of the deposit pensions to others a long time ago. The time after it was publicly known that the Riksrevision had examined the deposit pensions and found that several had received too much pension, and that the check was inadequate, has been demanding. But it is still good that this happened. Had it not been for the National Audit Office, these conditions would hardly have been revealed. The fact that the Presidency decided to set up an expert committee to go through the whole scheme thoroughly was also good and in line with the view we had in the Pensions Board. It is at the initiative of the Pensions Board itself that Odelstinget now decides to outsource the administration of this scheme. We considered it absolutely necessary to do this because of the lack of legitimacy of the Stortinget and the Pensions Board after what has happened in the last year. I think the Stortinget no longer has legitimacy in the population in terms of its own pension schemes. This means that we should be careful when we are to adopt a new pension scheme for wholesalers later this spring after the Sigbjørn Johnsen Committee has presented its position. The new system must ensure a safe and good pension for those who have been elected to the Grand Duchy. At the same time, the system cannot be perceived as being too generous in its opinion. A very important principle is broken in this case, and that is the principle of power distribution. It forms the basis of our constitution and is designed to prevent power from being brought together in one organ. Power shall stop power. This principle is disabled in terms of this pension scheme, and we see how wrong it has been. The size cannot break such an important principle, and we must ensure that it does not happen again. So what can the Storting learn from this story? The report of the Committee of Experts has shown that the Administration of Stortinge is to a small extent suitable for the functioning of the administrative body à la Nav, the tax administration or the KLP. They have neither the capacity nor the competence to do so. Nor is it desirable to have a heavy pension administration to manage so few pensions. In addition, it has been shown that it is difficult for Stortinget and its representatives to take individual decisions on former colleagues. Even I think it has been a demanding and, to some extent, unpleasant side of sitting on the Pension Board. Getting detailed insights into the economic and social situation of former colleagues does not seem to be a good thing. In addition, I would like to mention that in future cases, Stortinget should also follow general rule of law, such as the right to appeal or appeal against the proceedings. Much of the practice under which the pension scheme has operated has been achieved in a poor manner. There has been oral proceedings, and the legislation has been unclear. The law has been ambiguous, and decisions have been taken on the basis of previous cases. Thus it has developed a practice that has only been followed without having been asked what right we have had to give former representatives pensions. This applies, for example: calculation of the vesting time of representatives who have also been the Council of State. How has it been calculated? Well, it's become so that state council time counts. It is not possible to find a written source of such an interpretation. I would warn against continuing arrangements that have been ‘just like this’. I am of the clear opinion that all practices are to be based on a law that has come into existence in a sound manner, that is. with a thorough investigation prior to the adoption and application of a legislative or regulatory act. We should not repeat the error that a practice is growing without this being enshrined in a law that has been thoroughly and properly dealt with. In its report, the Expert Committee was critical of how Stortinget has handled this with regard to whether or not State Council time should be counted. They had two recommendations in their report related to just this. One was that the Constitutional Office of the Storting should investigate what should count as a peak time in order to be able to comply with the 75th anniversary rule. It is unclear to me whether this has happened, as this is not mentioned in the setting. The second recommendation was that the Presidency establish a fast-working legislative committee to draw up detailed provisions on the 75-year rule. I do not see that either. Reference is made to the Johnsen Committee's setting, which is natural, since this sample is to recommend a new scheme for large-scale investors. Nevertheless, I assume that the Presidency will come back to this by setting up a law committee. The Johnsen Committee is a politician-appointed selection — it is not a public law investigation. Before the decision on how to understand the 75-year rule, I believe there is a need for a legal investigation into the issue. The selection itself refers to the Johnsen Committee and they're aware of what's working on there. But they just as fully believe that because this is not a law selection, and because it was primarily the task of adapting the GDP pension to the new pension model in the social security system, the need for a separate law committee is still present. I agree with such an assessment and believe it would be wise for the Presidency to follow up such a recommendation at a different time from now. The legitimacy is so low in view of all aspects of how Stortinget has managed its own pension scheme that we should do everything that has to do with this, as thoroughly as possible. I have noticed that the Presidency wants the waiting pay system to continue to be administered by the Stortinget – not by the Pensions Board, but by the Presidency. There are arguments for doing so, not least the fact that the scheme is more employers' responsibility than social security. At the same time, it is hardly reassuring to the public that these decisions are to some extent based on judgement. The cleanup that took place in 2003 was good, and we who have been on the board during this period have had a much easier job than our predecessors. The Brørby Committee did a good job in that way. Equally fully, there are some principal problems in such an arrangement. I am thinking first of all of the fact that former colleagues have to decide on the future economic situation of former grubbing-up representatives. On that basis, I personally doubt whether the solution chosen is good enough. KLP has an early retirement scheme for retired rapporteurs managed by them on behalf of the municipalities. This scheme cannot be fully compared with, but it is possible to imagine that the current waiting wage system is divided into two schemes — a continuing training scheme/competence support scheme and an early retirement scheme for those approaching retirement. The latter arrangement can be easily regulated and transferred to CLP or SPK. An education support scheme will be easier to deal with for Stortinget, which is such a special institution. This case has shown that the Stortinget, more or less unconscious, has developed a pension culture with the absence of legislation and control. High levels of pension competence have been lacking, and there has been a lack of general legal certainty. The fact that the Storting as the country's legislator has let this happen over so many years is regrettable. Many have to share this responsibility, including those pensioners who have been paid too much in retirement. The size is earned by showing humility in how to handle your own pension in the future. Today’s decision is a major and important step away from the practices that have taken place. Now it's up to us to take this lesson further when, in the spring, we're going to adopt a new law after the setting of the Sigbjørn Johnsen Committee. The size should have a good and sound pension scheme for former depositors, but the size as a political body does not tolerate any more rounds in which the opinion is left with the impression that the national assembly of the country is rising above general legal certainty and does not relate to the principle of power distribution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e148	I am a member of what has now been called the Johnsen Committee, which is actually gathered at this moment to meet somewhere else here in the house. I just want to clarify what the Presidency determines in the setting that Odelstinget currently has to deal with, namely that the assessment of the future model for the administration of the new pension schemes will have to take place until the Johnsen Committee has submitted its recommendation, and that the selection on a free basis will continue to assess the administrative arrangements to be chosen for the new system. I think it's important to underline it, and I'm pleased with that clarification from the presidency in the setting. Let me also say that the idea behind the establishment of the Presidentship of the Johnsen Committee is that the Stortinget will now be able to adopt the principles of a new pension scheme for depositors, with effect from the next enlargement period. However, let me stress that there are a whole series of issues that nevertheless, in line with what the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection addresses – and which have been raised in the debate here today – will need to be assessed and addressed in parallel with the new system, which is being implemented from the next period, because we will continue to have, for decades to come, former depositors who have earned rights in today's system. Thus, it is not the case that the Johnsen Committee finds solutions to all the issues raised in the practice of today's system. It's important to clarify it. We will have to live with a previous system, a new system and transitional arrangements for some large-scale representatives who will have rights in two parallel systems in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e157	You get the impression that today this is more of a confessional than a pulpit. With regard to the last posts, I think it's a very strong thing that you're so clear on the critical point in the way the Storting has handled this. However, it is also important for SV to stress that when you leave the State Pension Fund to assess the content, there should be a legal basis for what you assess. Of course, the fact that it does not in any way flow to the State Pension Fund an understanding of a management that is not governed by law is important for SV. To the extent that the law has been practised in such a way that there is no basis for such an understanding, it must necessarily have the consequence that the State Pension Fund can obtain other results. So many people have said a lot about the Sigbjørn Johnsen Committee. It is obvious that there will be problems in the wake of it. But we in SV think it is at least a very strong force that understanding is so great that you need to have other types of pension schemes for the depositors – schemes that do not appear to be as lucrative as they have now, because they simply did not tolerate the public's searchlight. This is a good example of the debate that has come up here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e166	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 264]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e182	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e191	We now have to deal with the law on ports and waters. This is a very long-term update – I understand that in the work of the Committee – of the Port and Water Law of 1984. The work on the new law started in 2000, but it really speeded up after Helga Pedersen and the red-green government took over in 2005. For the ministerial hearing, with the 2007 deadline, 97 consultation replies were received. It says something about the need that many have felt for changes in the law. Much has happened since 1984. Developments in the transport sector have been significant. The different modes of transport compete more closely with the same customers. In particular, road transport has taken many tasks and is rapidly growing. This leads to increased pressure on the road network and, at the same time, increasing awareness of the use of environmentally friendly transport. Maritime transport is, as is well known, an environmentally and climate-friendly option in most cases. Therefore, the main objective of a new Law on Ports and Waters has also been to establish a legal framework that contributes to the development of ports into efficient logistics hubs, which is important for the development of maritime transport as an efficient and safe form of transport. This is a prerequisite for maritime transport to be able to compete with trains and trailers. This is also in line with the political objectives of the government of Stoltenberg II for maritime transport in the Soria Moria Declaration. It is clear that the port sector must be guaranteed a framework which makes it adaptable and capable of attracting goods. This is also essential in order to achieve the cross-policy objectives of transferring freight from road to sea. In addition to increased competition from other modes of transport and the need for more environmentally friendly transport, ship traffic along the Norwegian coast, both within and outside the territorial waters, is increasing. Increased traffic is leading to a strengthening of safety and portability requirements at sea. At the same time, we also get more international legislation that needs to be taken into account. The applicable port and water laws do not take account of these changes. It is therefore great that we finally have a legislation that provides a more appropriate management and management tool for the authorities. Ports and maritime transport have an important role and should have an even more important role in a comprehensive transport network with efficient transport corridors between production site and markets. In order to strengthen the market share of maritime transport, it is essential that ports strengthen their position as a hub in the logistics chain and in the transport corridors. This may lead to reduced transport costs for business and to alleviate congestion problems in the road network. It is therefore positive that a professionalisation of ports is now being opened up. An important part of this is to facilitate market-oriented investments and cooperation between public and private actors in public port activities. Nevertheless, it is important to stress that the port infrastructure itself, i.e. the port itself, should be owned by the public. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Progress Party, emphasises that the key changes to the Port and Water Waters Act are related to ownership, pricing and regulatory needs, because this is considered to be the main means of strengthening the position of ports. In its work on the law, it has also been mentioned by several actors that maritime transport charges, such as safety, coastal and unloading charges, contribute to the weakening of the competitiveness of freight transport by ships in relation to the use of trucks. It is therefore important for the Ministry to continue its assessment of the competitive conditions between shipping and the transport of goods by car, and for the Ministry to follow this up and come back with what they consider to be appropriate proposals to enhance the competitiveness of maritime transport — perhaps during the slogan: More ships, better climate. It is also very positive that a provision has been made to establish discount schemes that may include environmental differentiation. Environmental taxes will contribute to the achievement of the Government’s objectives in climate policy and the goal of more goods at sea. Finally, I would just like to thank the Committee for its good cooperation. I would also like to thank all those who have contributed to the hearings held by the Committee. It has been useful in the work on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e222	The Advance Party is also pleased that we have finally received a renewal of the Law on Ports and Waters, after the Port Law Committee delivered its work in March 2002. So it took more than four years before draft revised law was sent out to the hearing in December 2006. In particular, the previous government must take responsibility for the excessive length of administrative treatment. In particular, the Progress Party supports the legislative proposal. We are pleased that we are now getting a better and more up-to-date legal framework that can contribute to the development of ports not only to transport nodes but also to logistics hubs. In particular, the Party points out that it is now clearly opening up to the professionalisation of ports. We are pleased that an important instrument for such professionalisation is to facilitate market-oriented investment and cooperation between public and private actors in public port activities. This is good progress party policy. Nevertheless, the Progress Party has some comments and suggestions in the case. I remember the law dealing with two important areas: waters and ports. The Party wishes to establish the Coastal Safety and Preparedness Council referred to in the Report. No 14 for 2004–2005 on maritime safety and oil protection, as dealt with by the Storting in May 2005. We are promoting proposals for such an establishment. The Progress Party reiterates its efforts to bring together all the agencies in the transport sector in one department. The Progress Party promotes proposals for the transfer of the Coastal Agency to the Ministry of Transport. The Party points out that the legislative proposal deals with and has implications for the fees and use of fees and their scope in maritime transport. New fees are introduced. I refer to several statements, including: the person who has arrived at the Transport Committee of the Norwegian Shipowners’ Federation dated 9 January of this year, where it is stated: ‘The decisive argument for choosing maritime transport is low transport costs. In general, however, public regulation in recent years has resulted in an increasing cost of maritime transport, despite the long-standing political will to promote increased use of maritime transport. Moreover, these costs limit development and innovation opportunities.’;» The Progress Party proposes a comprehensive overview of charges and charges across the transport sector, and we are pleased that the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left support this proposal. The Progress Party has no faith that time — and attention — will be spent on an assessment of fees and charges when rolling the national transport plan. If we are serious about facilitating increased maritime transport, which is also the objective of this Act, we must, in the opinion of the Progress Party, make a thorough assessment of the use of charges and charges in order to achieve the objective – not only increase the level of costs and introduce new charges and charges. With the same justification, the Progress Party promotes proposals for presenting a separate case on security and preparedness status in the transport sector and related costs. The law is a law of jurisdiction. The proposal reminds us that there are a total of 28 key regulations administered by the Department and the Coastal Agency, as well as local regulations in over 100 port districts. The law is reinforced by the audit as a power of attorney. The Progress Party assumes that the Stortinget will be presented in a separate case with new overall regulations to this law before it enters into force, and we are surprised that we are standing alone on this important requirement. The Party shall support the introduction of an intervention helmet in the event of non-compliance with the requirements of a ship that is in danger. We support § 46 on designated ports. We are particularly pleased with the wording ‘Havns with state and private owners may also be designated’. Together with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, the Progress Party points out that the State should contribute funding and other instruments in terms of investment in infrastructure for national ports, as it also contributes in the road sector and the rail sector in order to ensure efficient, safe and environmentally friendly maritime transport. We support the proposal that port capital should not be used for purposes other than port activities, and emphasise that we want a narrow interpretation of the exceptional homes in Section 48 and Section 50. I am referring here to the proposals that have been made by the Progress Party alone or with other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e263	The representative Arne Sortevik has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e266	I am pleased that there has been broad agreement on many of the proposals from the consultation round to the final reading. There is also an overall increase in efforts to strengthen the position of maritime transport in national transport and transport to and from Norway. A good law on ports and waters will improve logistics. It will improve the profitability of Norwegian enterprises and contribute to environmental savings. It is only positive that the legislative proposal opens up further professionalisation of ports and facilitates more market-based investment. Public port activities can – I would almost say – occasionally be a suitable area for cooperation between public and private actors. The legislative proposal is, to a large extent, a framework law. It confers considerable power on the Ministry in drawing up detailed rules in regulations. For the right, it is important to bring together the regulations of the law into one common regulation and to clear up all the regulations relating to existing legislation and to ensure that a new common regulation becomes short, clarifying and clear. A complex regulatory jungle will not contribute to the promotion of neither ports nor shipping. The ability of local self-government and businesses to understand the choices that serve themselves within the current laws and regulations is central to the Right. It must also apply in the preparation of regulations. The Committee has been informed that it is necessary to allow each port to be required, for example: year-round operation. This requirement must be met if it helps to optimise the operation of the port and does not weaken competition between the different users of the port in question. It is also worth noting that the proposal to introduce a general standard of care is not included in the Government's proposal. An overall opposition believes it is important that a new law has such a provision and therefore proposes it. The principle of cost liability must continue to govern the exercise of the authority and administrative responsibility of the municipality in the maritime area of the municipality. The principle ensures that the municipality cannot impose greater costs on users of port and municipal sea area than necessary for the exercise of powers. Chapter 3 deals with coastal fees, safety fees and call charges. In addition, a ransom fee of 100 pst is payable. self-financing. Special additional costs of maritime transport are increasing, and it prevents the increased use of maritime transport and the transport of both goods and passengers. It is important to get a comprehensive overview of the picture of charges and charges across the transport sector, and the maritime transport sector in particular. Such an overview must be treated separately from the national transport plan, and an overall opposition proposes it again. It is in the Soria Moria Declaration a promise of a review of the entire tax jungle relating to maritime traffic and ports and fairways. That promise has not been fulfilled, but reference is made to the national transport plan. In the context of a question raised by the Minister for Fisheries at the end of 2005 by the undersigned, there is also a passport to do so. I really hope that the Minister of Fisheries will have the opportunity to do so in the few months that are left of her Council of State. It is necessary to improve the condition of shipping. Finally, let me commend the Minister of Fisheries for having now promoted his own proposition on the lifting of the submarine outside of Fedje. It's an excellent environmental issue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e287	The rapporteur has presented the main features of the law in an excellent way and why it is important. SV will bring forward three important objectives and considerations. Firstly, the need to strengthen business and coastal settlements: I come from a coastal area where fishing ports are important for food and housing, where ferries and fast boats are the very lifeblood of people. We have large ports like Tromsø and Harstad, and we have Hurtigruten as an important link. Therefore, legislation and other instruments that strengthen maritime transport are important both for the Troms and for the North. This law clarifies state responsibilities and gives municipalities as public owners a slightly larger room for action for political governance. This is positive for maritime transport. The Port Act is one instrument among several. It is also important for maritime transport that this government has increased the appropriations allocated to fishing ports, fairways and maritime safety. We have over-filled our national transport plan, and we must continue to do so. Strengthening maritime transport is important to pursue offensive environmental policies — in two ways. If we succeed in transferring more goods from road to road and refrigerator, we do a job to strengthen business and settlement along the coast, and we contribute to safer roads and to cutting climate emissions. It is important to transfer more goods from vehicle combinations along the road to track and keel. At the same time, maritime transport is struggling with high climate emissions, emissions of NOx and particulate matter. We can't keep doing that. We must make a gradual transition to more environmentally friendly shipping. It can make a contribution to this by law. It is therefore positive that a general framework for the establishment of discount schemes, which may also include environmental differentiation, has been adopted at the time of adoption of the legislation. For SV, this opening for environmental differentiation of fees is important and forward-looking. This is something we want to use in the future. Several countries assess such an environmental differentiation, including, among others: the California State has introduced emission regulations on calls as part of its environmental policy. A number of major port cities, such as: Gothenburg also imposes that ships at berth should not have the machinery in operation, but be supplied with electricity from land. This reduces both emissions and health problems in port cities. Thirdly, I would like to stress that ports are important for national infrastructure to serve the country and many local communities along our coast. Therefore, we must not add up to schemes that contribute to privatising port operations. The port organisation should be publicly owned so that the port capital belongs to the government. This is related to the fact that in most cases a port is a natural monopoly and the owner of heavy infrastructure which cannot be established by several actors within a limited geographical area. It is not rational for private operators to enter a position where the monopoly situation can be exploited. I would like to refer to several hearings, including: from the National Subcommittee and from Troms County, which are skeptical to further commercialisation of ports. Public governance is important in maintaining a level playing field and ensuring a coherent and functional port structure with good connections and cooperation between ports. Increased private influence on the development of the port must be fully investigated before decision is taken. We are in favour of modernisation, but we must have political governance. The fast route calls at 34 ports along our coast, from Bergen to Kirkenes. We will strengthen the Hurtigruten as a flagship for business, communities and travel life along the coast. It is important that the Ports Act and regulations facilitate strengthening the Hurtigruten in the future. That's me, and SV, very busy. That is why I would like to emphasise once again: ports and waters are national infrastructures that need to be strengthened in order to create sustainable growth, which enable maritime transport to cut climate and environmental emissions and serve our community. Our ports and fairways belong to the people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e305	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State for finally bringing this matter to the attention of Stortinget. The special position of the ports in the Norwegian legislation has made the work of the new legal text difficult, but now we have a new port law that brings together broad political support in the Stortinget. In my opinion, the Council of State has shown the ability to listen to owners and users, and the rapporteur has shown a willingness to compromise, so that a total increase is essentially behind this setting. For the Christian People's Party, the main objective of a new law on ports and waters is to contribute to the development of ports into efficient logistics hubs. In order to strengthen the market share of maritime transport, it is essential that ports strengthen their position as a hub in the transport corridors. If this is to succeed, it is necessary to facilitate market-oriented investment and cooperation between public and private actors in port activities. The Port Act is designed as a framework law, and it gives state authority great power through the preparation and use of regulations. The Christian People's Party presupposes that all the regulations relating to existing laws are now brought together in a common regulation, and that it becomes short, clarifying and clear. The Christian People's Party is particularly pleased that environmental concerns are well taken care of in the new legislative proposal, and that the law thus contributes to sustainable environmental management in ports and waters. The Christian People's Party is somewhat surprised that, after the hearings, the Government has chosen to withdraw the proposed norm of care. We believe it is important that a new law has such a provision, and we therefore propose it again. Maritime transport is subject to heavy tax burdens, and the Christian People's Party is therefore very concerned that the users of ports and municipal sea areas are not charged more than is strictly necessary. Special additional costs for maritime transport do not promote the cross-policy objective of stimulating the increased use of maritime transport for freight and passengers. The Christian People’s Party therefore supports the proposal to have a comprehensive overview of transport charges and charges. Furthermore, it is very positive that the Ministry may require the owner, the shipowner or the driver of a ship that is in danger of being stowed or otherwise endangers the safety of the waters to take action to prevent the emergency and to safeguard the ship. In an emergency, it is very important that ports have reception obligations, but the Christian People's Party would stress that residence in a port caused by state authority should be covered by the State itself. If we are to succeed in achieving effective national hub ports, the State must contribute to the financing of infrastructure, as the State also contributes in the road and rail sectors. Here, I think very much will depend on the willingness of now, when the law is in place, to also provide funds to really make the designated ports into national hub ports. Finally, the Christian People's Party supports the provision of the bill that port capital cannot be used for purposes other than port activities. We have, of course, taken note of the provisions of Section 48 that, in exceptional cases, funds from port capital may be used for purposes other than port activities. We are dealing here with the fact that the Minister, in reply to questions from the Committee, uses the term ‘several opt-outs’, and we assume that practice is in line with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e326	All laws have a purpose, more or less the future, and the promise we are about to discuss today is intended to contribute to a good development for ports and maritime transport in the country. The two main objectives of the new Law on Ports and Waters are to facilitate the smooth and safe movement of ships and to facilitate the efficient and safe movement of ports. As a basic premise, ‘life, health, environment and material values’ are taken into account. The center party and the other red-green government parties see that there is a potential to carry much more goods by sea, and think that this new law will help to do this. By reducing the growth of road freight transport, we will in the long term be able to reduce the maintenance needs of the same roads. And not least, with fewer vehicle trains in traffic, probably the off-road number could also go down. The Norwegian industry’s right to export depends on good framework conditions and freight costs are a critical factor for companies in international competition. The benefits of maritime transport include: the narrowing of the need for infrastructure measures. The ships must have functional ports to add, and the fairways must be accessible and safe, but the water does not, as you know, need new asphalt cover every three years. However, there is a large infrastructure measure that I am overestimated to be important for maritime transport along the most weather-hardy part of our coast, and that is City Ship Tunnel. We in the Center Party are looking forward to the final report on this tunnel coming, and will work for him to be built as soon as possible. We have ports spread along the long Norwegian coast, with different sizes and different functions. It is important that we make sure that there is a shortage of ports, so that carriers and businesses can meet their different needs. A port is a natural monopoly, and I would therefore like to point out that port capital should also be eaten by the public in the future. Nevertheless, the laws do not prevent ports from entering into agreements with private service providers, and it can contribute to effective and good solutions. It is important that the revenue generated by port operations is used to expand and develop ports for the benefit of users. Therefore, it is right that the port capital should be kept accountingly separate from the municipality’s other resources and that the possibilities to make dividends are small. The bounded opening of dividends shall be governed by the rules laid down in the Regulation and shall not go into line with the objectives of food and transport policy for the development of efficient and functional ports. The Committee has listened to useful recordings that have been made during the hearings. The new law on ports and waters is a framework law, and more detailed specifications come in the form of regulations. In the comments on this matter, the majority of the committee and the government have therefore stressed the need to clarify the importance of these regulations. I hope and believe that the new laws and the corresponding regulations will facilitate a good development in maritime transport in the coming years, in the interests of safe movement, value creation and the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e347	Initially, I would like to commend the case rapporteur for his good work. Law on ports and waters is not an easy matter to deal with. The Left supports the main lines of the Government's proposal for a new port law, as set out in the Committee's comments. The main objective of the law is to contribute to the development of ports into efficient logistics hubs. This can strengthen the market shares of maritime transport and provide a positive environmental and climate impact, while at the same time reducing transport costs for business and facilitating the capacity problems of parts of the road network. The left considers it positive that there is a broad consensus that it is important that maritime transport, with its environmental advantages, be developed as an efficient and safe form of transport, so that it can compete with other modes of transport, as has been said several times here. In order to achieve this, the Government – and I believe that the Government should have boasted – is adding to market-oriented investment and cooperation between public and private actors in public port activities. It also explains the parties to the government in their comments on the case. After all, Sweden’s former Prime Minister Göran Persson has expressed this approach in a striking way, as several government representatives have subsequently adopted: the market is a miserable master, but a good servant. Under this law, the Government follows up this and benefits from the market in the service of the environment. This approach, based on increased market orientation in combination with public ownership of infrastructure, should make it easier for the Government to transfer to other areas as well. Today, the competitiveness of train traffic is restricted because the Government does not want to break up the monopoly we have for all practical purposes within the rail transport sector. This is bad environmental policy. So back to the port law. The left has noted that the proposal to introduce a general standard of care into the law has not been continued. The left considers it important that a new law also has such a provision and therefore proposes this, as we have explained in the Committee's position on the matter. I would like to challenge the Council of State on what is the Government's reason for not having such a provision. Finally, last week several members of the Committee took part in the celebration of the Joint Transport Users' Association for the first 50 years. There was also a theme for ports. The signals from there were that fewer and larger ports were wanted, and that healthy, efficient, and nonfree passageways were important. This is also something we should take with us further.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e363	The government will stimulate the development of maritime transport, both because it is an environmentally friendly alternative and because it is a natural mode of transport for Norway as a coastal state. Increased transport puts pressure on roads and demands for more environmentally friendly transport. Maritime transport is climate friendly, and the transfer of goods from truck to boat can help reduce both the number of cows and the number of road accidents. The work on designing a new port and water law has taken some time, and several have been involved. It is a work that actually started as early as 2000, and thus it is high time to set up rules that are adapted to the day and the future. The law work has been on the table of several governments, and I am therefore very pleased that we have come to that point that the Storting is now putting a final point in the legislative process. The main objective of the new legislative proposal is to establish a legal framework to help ports develop into efficient logistics hubs. In addition, the aim of the law is to facilitate effective and safe maritime transport to compete with other modes of transport. The law facilitates the professionalisation of operations and cooperation between ports. The new law facilitates good propulsion, safe movement and proper use and management of waters. I would also like to stress that the law will be a central instrument in a comprehensive maritime and coastal management, by inter alia. legal rules are established for land use in the coastal zone. Furthermore, it shall facilitate efficient and safe port operations in maritime and combined transport as well as in the competitive maritime transport of persons and goods within national and international transport networks. There are many who have mentioned in this debate the distribution of charges and charges between modes of transport. This is something that the Government will come back to when we present the National Transport Plan later this year. The content of the law can be sorted under three headings: administrative responsibility, maritime safety and regulation of port activities. I'll briefly go into some of the most important things. The administrative responsibilities of the municipalities at sea are extended to maritime areas within the boundaries of the municipalities, as demonstrated by the Law on Planning and Building. The State shall continue to be responsible for managing the principal and assisting officers and maritime areas outside the area of responsibility of the municipalities. The country shall continue to be responsible for the navigation installations because this is important for safety in terms of design standardisation and their practice. This has been a topic in the consultation round. The law prohibits any use of vessels which could lead to danger, damage or inconvenience to the availability and movement in waters and ports. I have registered that parts of the committee are calling for a provision on a general standard of care. In this context, I would like to point out that the Ship Safety Act and the Law on Leisure and Small Boats meet the requirements of care of those who run ships and boats. So this is something that is already covered by other legislation, and that is why it has not been incorporated into the Law on Ports and Waters. An important measure in the new law, on the other hand, provides a clear basis for action against ships in hazardous and accident situations. This will enhance maritime safety and help reduce the risk of accidents. Ports are an important link between maritime and land transport, but can also be a bottleneck in the logistics chain. The Port and Water Law draws up framework conditions within which the port will operate, but will regulate little practical work in the port. It is important to ensure that ports have a good financial basis and it is therefore necessary to continue the rules on the separation of the port economy from the rest of the municipal economy. The port's financial resources are built up by taxes levied on port services. As a general rule, the law only allows port funds to be used for port operations, such as maintenance, operation, port expansion and development as a logistical hub. I have noticed the majority's comments relating to public ownership in ports, and I would like to stress that these are remarks entirely in the spirit of the red-green government. These observations will form the basis for the regulations to be laid down subsequently, on the basis of the law. The user payment of maritime transport is often discussed. In the new Port and Water Law, port charges with general price fixing for the port services provided are replaced. It will make the setting of port charges, or the payment, more transparent and contribute to a level playing field between maritime transport and other modes of transport. An important objective for this is to facilitate good commercial operations with a focus on cost control, which in turn will benefit users and maritime transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e389	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e392	First, I want to pay tribute to the council because she has turned the government and raised the submarine, instead of doing what the government wanted first, namely to cover it for. This is a law that has been pointed out by others. Here's well over 30 central regulations, probably. Can the Council of States promise that we will have work on the regulations which reduce their scope, which will make it clearer for users what the regulations should actually prescribe, and thereby also clarify the use of the law? It is a wish of many, including of the Progress Party, to increase the use of maritime transport. But as many users point out, costs are increasing. The fees are increasing, they're increasing, and the fees are increasing, they're increasing, with this law as well. What action will the Government take to mitigate costs, reduce costs, and thus encourage more extensive use of maritime transport, especially on the freight side?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e401	This law provides for significant simplification for users of maritime transport. Firstly, the abolition of port charges and the opening of normal pricing in ports have contributed to the removal of a drink of regulations. I also assume that in the further regulatory work we will make the regulations as simple as possible for users to relate to. But the opposition's wish that there should be only one rule to deal with will probably be an ambitious requirement. With regard to fees and charges, I do not agree with the description that this is constantly coming with new fees and charges, and that it is becoming more expensive and more expensive. Here we wind up the port charges precisely because there has to be a clearer relationship between the users of the ports paying, and what you get back. At the same time, municipalities must have the opportunity to recover the costs of managing the new sea area for which they are responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e408	Gothenburg port is in the process of competing several of our central ports in South Norway, both because it is efficient and because it is significantly cheaper on some ships than Norwegian ones. The level of the levy is clearly very much related to this. I want to take up again the same question that I asked in several letters and questions to the Council of State at the beginning of her period, whether she would look again at the fees associated with ro-ro ships and loloships, so that it is the cargo and efficiency that is at the centre. Can the Council of State at least confirm that this is mentioned and handled when she makes an appropriate proposition about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e415	This is a problem which has been asked, and which has been discussed in this room several times. I have no new answer to what I have said before. These are issues to which the Government comes back in the National Transport Plan when it is presented a little later in ours.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e420	We've got a revised law in place, and then the question is, what is it? The aim must be the development of ports and the improvement of environmentally friendly maritime transport. Here we have succeeded in transporting in and out of the country, but we have been less successful in domestic transport. It's so that I get a little awkward taste in my mouth every time I talk about that we're going to get goods over from road to sea. So the question is, how are we going to get there? We see that several of the larger ports live under great pressure from housing and business buildings. Both Trondheim and Oslo want fjordby instead of port. We see that railway terminals are located outside the port and that the service link is not as good as desirable. What does the Minister think is necessary in order for us to succeed in achieving the goal set by the law of getting more goods from the road to the sea?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e429	Firstly, it is very important that we now get the new port and water law in place, which is a modern regulation adapted to the challenges of maritime transport and ports. It will in itself be an act, with all the provisions that lie there, and with the further regulatory work, to ensure the position of ports and to ensure that ports develop into effective logistical nodes, as is the cross-political agreement. It is also very important that the Government has overfilled the framework of the national transport plan. We have spent more money both on fishing ports and on fairways. It is also important to make maritime transport safer and more efficient, to facilitate easy and efficient access to ports. Then, of course, in the further transport plan, one has to look at the other state infrastructure towards the ports. There are a lot of grips that have been taken, and that must be taken in the time that is coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e436	It is such that the costs associated with the use of maritime transport are closely linked to access costs. It is also true that there is a parallel between maritime transport and aviation, which we have dealt with here earlier in the Chamber today, in that they are mainly financed in the same way, namely through user payments. My point is that if you want to be serious about what you've been saying for a long time and say politically that you want to increase the use of maritime transport, you'll probably have to create a somewhat adjusted funding system where the state goes into and contributes more to mitigate the costs of just calling. There are some studies of the cost of boat calls of different sizes at different types of ports. One of the most recent shows that the fees imposed by the authority are approximately. half of the costs associated with going to berth. This illustrates the need for governments to do more in the road and rail sectors to pay some of the infrastructure costs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e441	There is at least nothing in this new law that says that it will be more expensive for maritime transport, on the contrary. The fact that we wind up the port charges and open up a freer pricing system is likely to contribute to both lower prices and, not least, significant simplification, which I believe is the most important thing in terms of maritime transport. I believe that in the Port and Water Law we are taking action that points very clearly in the right direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e448	I was into it in my post, and Jan Sahl was into it in his line-up – it concerns fast, efficient and cool passageways into the ports. It may be a little bit on the side of the law itself, but it's very important for the ports to work. Is this something that we can expect to get into the NTP? Is this important to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast in the work on NTP?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e454	I and my colleagues in the Government are concerned that the ports should be part of the transport network as such, and then it is important to see the ports in conjunction with the other infrastructure and the other state infrastructure. But I think I'm going to wait to say what's going on in the NTP, until we present NTP. So I almost have to ask the representative Tende to lubricate himself with patience. Anyone who waits for something good is not waiting in vain.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e459	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e462	Of course, with regard to the debate that has been going on here on taxes and the possibility for maritime transport to strengthen itself, I fully agree with what is now being presented, and with the opportunities offered to ports for a more correct pricing. But it's also worth thinking that the biggest competitor of Oslo Port is not necessarily Gothenburg Port, but the trails that carry the goods between Gothenburg and Oslo, and it might have been right to look at the pricing there. There is also an interesting EU directive, the Eurovignette Directive, which could help distort pricing in the right way between port and road transport. But the reason why I took the floor is that I want to pay tribute to the innovation in the law – which the Council of State so far had in mind – that the ministry can, according to Section 38, take action against ships that are in danger and that allow the owner, the shipowner or the driver of the ship who is about to crash or otherwise threaten safety, to avert the emergency. It gives us a whole new opportunity to act before the accident actually takes place, and the crew that sits on the surveillance centres does not have to sit and witness accidents that they believe could have been averted. It is not acceptable to take the chance that things can go well, because you are afraid of the costs of going to the port, of having to relieve the need, or of asking for assistance from another team. That's why I think this is very important. This, of course, could also affect ports, which may need to be more prepared to accept ships that have had to go to port, and it is therefore important that we also make procedures to deal with that type of situation. It is also important, as the majority emphasises, that the owner or owner of the ship is responsible for the costs of that type of situation. I see that the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left find that it is the State that should be responsible in this kind of situation. For me, it's going to be completely wrong. If I park my car, put it up in Maridalen or crash somewhere, you can be sure that if it is towed or wrecked, I will be responsible for it, and also the responsibility to pay for any damage it has caused to other things. I can therefore not understand that there should be other principles at sea than what we have on land.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e471	In Stortinget, before today, we are discussing a proposal for a representative on the modernisation of Norwegian aviation. It was a Document No. 8 proposals from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities, the Verification of Credentials and Then the Progress Party said they wanted their own big message about aviation. Now we are dealing with the law on ports and waters, and now they also want a separate case about ports and waters. Fortunately, in the years I've been allowed to be in the Storting, the world has gone a little further. In the past, we had one case for road, one case for aviation, one case for rail and one case for ports. Later we got a plan for all these transport measures. It is called the National Transport Plan. Here's a brave attempt to see communications in their entirety. And, as the Minister for Fisheries and Coast said, ports will also be part of the transport plan. I think the NTP has succeeded in seeing these measures as a whole – of course, assuming that we have governments that are willing to follow up with money. Then I won't even mention Bondevik II. By splitting up the transport sector, as the Party wishes, the whole thing will be gone. It does not want the Workers' Party. It would be going backwards into the future, and that's my truth no progress!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e480	When the representative from the Workers' Party could not succeed in repeating his arguments from a case in Stortinget earlier today, I cannot avoid repeating the answer, which is the same in this case. Treating individual transport sectors, in particular those sectors which are clearly favourably treated when we roll the national transport plan, is not going to reverse the clock. It is actually taking the challenges for the two transport sectors involved, namely maritime transport and aviation, seriously. It is not our intention at all that we should stop rolling and making national transport plans. But what we have now the opportunity to point out is that when we do what we're going to do later in ours, to deal with a new national transport plan, very much of the attention will be attached to the economic framework and the distribution of the financial framework on specific projects, corridors, regions, provinces, etc. We do not then receive the thorough treatment that we believe the individual transport sector should and should have, not least in the case of maritime transport, which we are discussing in connection with this legislative proposal. The legislative proposal is a good framework for modern maritime transport, but we need to have a more thorough discussion, a more thorough analysis and, not least, a more thorough strategy that will enable us to achieve the objectives of a broad consensus: getting more transport, not least more freight transport, on maritime transport – from land to sea. Then, among other things, we must: time to take a closer and more detailed look at the costs of maritime transport. We need time to look at the funding base for the maritime transport sector, which, together with air transport, has a completely different form of funding than that, for example. the road sector and the rail sector. These fundamental discussions, which may provide the basis for enhanced and renewed strategy within, inter alia, the maritime transport, we have too little opportunity when dealing with the national transport plan. Treating own sectoral messages or cases in addition to the roll-out of the national transport plan should be a good reinforcement and not a backward step at all — a good strengthening of the transport policy in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e491	The reason why I took the floor again was that the representative Wickholm mentioned what we said in the statement that the state must take responsibility when the state brings ships in to a port that has additional reception obligations. Wickholm and I fully agree that it is the shipowner who is responsible. But then we have countless examples of ships being brought in, staying in ports for months and years without settling up, and finally it ends up being the port that has to remove the boat. That is the starting point for our comment, where we note that if the state brings a ship to a port that has a reception obligation, the state must be responsible for the port being paid. We know that it can end in court settlement, but we cannot get into the situation that a port with a reception obligation should have boats lying down and occupying the port without being paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e496	I fully agree with the representative Sahl that there must be procedures for dealing with that kind of situation, and it also clearly writes the majority in its comments. But I'm afraid that when the opposition parties so clearly establish that this must be the responsibility of the state, it will in future be even easier for unprofessional shipowners or owners to escape from their responsibilities. I think it is important that we establish that it is those who have the actual responsibility, even when boats have been brought in by the State either in accordance with current legislation or with more recent legislation that gives access to doing so to a greater extent, precisely to prevent accidents on the sea from occurring with other boats or in the form of major environmental damage. But it must be quite right to state that it is owners or shipowners and their insurance companies that are responsible for settling such situations. That's why I'm worried when you go so far as to say that this must be a state responsibility. In the end, since I took the floor, to the representative of Sortevik: I think it would be difficult for the Stortinget to set up strategies for each of the different modes of transport, then to coordinate the different strategies that will be designed for each mode of transport, in a new strategy. I think you're looking at the right track today, when you choose to deal with this at the same time, in order to create an overall strategy for how these modes of transport can best complement each other. I hope we do that in the future. Then there is no natural law that maritime transport is to be treated in a vote. It is no natural law that aviation should be given little publicity. It will be all the way up to the Storting itself and the individual party groups how much time and energy you want to spend in the different sectors. I hope then that the Progress Party will follow up in the spirit that has been advised today, and contribute to better treatment for aviation and maritime transport than before. I am also quite sure that they will be included in the national transport plan presented by this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e503	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox Berit Brørby took over the president's office here. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e515	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e588	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e593	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e602	Five proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 3, 4 and 5, by Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Party of Progress
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e1573	The President will first vote alternately between Section 14 of Chapter 3 of the suspension and Proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e1596	The remainder of Chapter 3 and Chapters 1, 2 and 4 to 12 are added.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e1605	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e1613	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-03-lower.ana.ud2108e1669	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
