ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e36	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the President will submit that case no. 1-3 is processed under one – and sees it as agreed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e72	At the request of the Labour and Social Committee, the president will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes, and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 30 minutes, the Progress Party 20 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 5 minutes, the Centre Party 5 minutes and the Left 5 minutes. In addition, the President will make suggestions that there will be a possibility of a replacement of lines by up to five lines with replies after contributions from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the president suggests that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e81	We have now finally come to the final reading of St.prp. No 51 on the situation in labour and welfare management – which could also have been referred to as the Government’s crisis package proposal for Nav. Because it may hardly have any doubt that Nav is an organization in crisis. Not to understand that everything is wrong. No, a lot is going well, but in many important areas, users are being hit by more and more waiting time, and the queues are growing. A unanimous committee then also underlines the critical importance of the proper functioning of the overall Labour and Welfare Act and of meeting the expectations and requirements of the Stortinget. Why is this so critical? Well, precisely because the State of Labour and Welfare represents the core of the Norwegian welfare society, and how many hundreds of thousands of people are everyday depending on the functioning and provision of services in line with adopted laws and rights. That the name of the new establishment in its time became Nav, there were probably many reasons for it. Let me illustrate a point with the name Nav by using a picture: Nav's role in the Norwegian welfare community can be compared to the hub on a bicycle wheel. If this breaks down, the bike stops immediately. In the same way, it is with the Labour and Welfare Unit Nav. If Nav breaks down, the welfare community stops immediately. There is an overall committee that is concerned about the situation in Nav, although the government parties and opposition parties naturally choose different terms and denominations to describe their concerns. That being said, there is reason to stress that there is a strong cross-political desire for the success of the Nav reform. However, the situation in the State of Labour and Welfare is critical. Throughout 2008 and up to today, we are familiar with ever-new cases of people who do not get the help they need, and at the time they should be helped. The background to this issue is precisely this, and the aim is to highlight the challenges of the ethos and to seek solutions that can address the ethos and provide good and effective welfare services to the population. It was a unanimous increase that in 2005 adopted the Nav reform. Over a long period of time, an increasing number of people in Norway had become dependent on social benefits and social security, which would not be economically sustainable in the long term for society or – more importantly – socially sustainable for a country that wants to emerge as a welfare society. The objectives of the Nav reform were therefore: more at work – fewer social security simpler for users and adapted to users’ needs a holistic and efficient labour and welfare management Soon four years after the Nav reform, the department is struggling with implementation in many stages. In Norway today, more than 750,000 people in pre-employment are out of work. We know that sick leave is at the same level as in 2005, and rising, despite great ambitions and costly efforts in the IA work. The number of disabled persons has risen to 340 000. A large number of disabled people do not enter normal work and become involuntary recipients of disability benefits. The number of disabled persons is more or less at the same level in 2009 as in 2005 and has remained stable throughout the period. The list could have been longer. When I choose to start like this, it's to show that the challenges Nav is facing today are not due to increased unemployment. For three years, the Government has been responsible for phasing in the reform, and for three years, the Stortinget has largely joined the proposals for appropriations and legislative changes that the Government has considered necessary – by a broad political majority. At the same time, we are in a situation where more and more people are experiencing a situation that does not provide the services expected and which in far too many cases exceeds the deadlines set by the agency itself. It is enough here to refer to the table shown on page 15 of the configuration. One of the main points of the Nav reform was that users should have one door to well-being. Today, Nav offices are established in a large part of the country’s municipalities – with one door. However, there is little help with one door if the door is either closed or difficult to get up, or where the inside floor operates with unclear responsibilities. In the proposition, the Government presents a description and proposals that are not uplifting. It is a major failure that, in order to get through a difficult phase of the reform, we must now put an end to important social change as the right to individual job performance assessment. Many user organisations are disappointed with this, and I share the disappointment. The fact that the postponement is now necessary is due to the fact that a good job has not been done in the past. The time aspect of the Nav reform is being brought forward by the Government as an explanation of the challenges it is now facing. I'm joining this. The reform involves substantial changes. Joining two such large establishments as the old labour market and the social security system of one establishment is, understandably, demanding. But these are aspects that Stortinget was also aware of when the Nav reform was adopted. When the Stortinget decided in the previous period to send back the first welfare message from the Bondevik II government, the Stortinget was aware of the dangers. Int. S. No 198 for 2004–2005, a unanimous Social Committee concluded that: «The Committee expects an organisation which does not impede rapid conversion, and in this way the Storting and Government will continue to have a good labour market policy tool». Given the description of the organisation of administrative units in Nav in the proposition, and the ineffective consequences for the external welfare service, there is reason to argue that the Government has not followed up on the adoption of a unanimous increase four years ago. In addition, the above statement states: ‘To combine two state agencies with partly different culture, objectives and management tools therefore imposes major requirements for both planning and implementation. It is therefore necessary, from the first day, to invest considerable resources in common competences and common cultural construction in order to ensure that the two state agencies actually become one new establishment. In particular, the Committee would point to the need to develop a broad and complex competence in the common first line.’.» This is what I call a clear expectation from the Storting to how the Government would lead the reform further, and how the Storting expected to be continuously updated on how the work went. In this way, I believe that the situation we are experiencing today, also comes as a consequence of the oversale that the government has made with regard to Nav. To describe the expected crisis that Nav is experiencing, it is enough to refer to numerous statements by the changing state councils of the red-green government that have referred to the Nav reform in response to all wishes and challenges of welfare development. The problem is that the same state councils also refer to the Nav reform as an explanation of why not everything works as it should. The responsibility for the situation today lies with the Government and the Government alone. Unfortunately, users and staff in Nav have to bear the main burden when party numbers cannot be realized. Despite the fact that the opposition in Stortinget has raised questions about Nav on a number of occasions, from 2006 on and off, it seems that it was not until the summer of 2008 that the Government realized that something had to be done. The size therefore decided on an additional allocation, so that the rapidly increasing residues in the floor could be met by a robust welfare device. But then came the rising unemployment, with subsequent questions from the opposition. And when it turned out in January 2009 that the residual situation was out of control, it seemed that the warnings given prior to the reform were not registered. For example, representative Eva Kristin Hansen said the following to the NRK on 16 February: "I don't recognize myself in the picture being drawn by the situation, I don't remember anyone warning us. The size was related to the information provided by the Government.’ [[...]] In this situation of the Nav reform, with more and more queues and waiting lists, there should have been much more shifts in the serious private crew companies and management companies. They have both available capacity and competence and could relieve Nav in a critical phase. Here, the Right has promoted its own proposal for a representative, which is also available for consideration today. Based on all the single requests I receive as a deposit representative, by phone, e-mail and when visiting the office, from the desperate individuals who do not reach the Nav system, I could actually have worked full-time only with this. There is an overall opposition that believes that legal certainty for users is not adequately ensured, and therefore we propose that a separate Nav Ombudsman should be established. Finally, I would like to address the proposals on which the Right is the co-rapporteur and which are included in the Innst.S. No 220 on page 29.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e145	The representative Martin Engeset has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e148	As a newly elected proxy, I was given the responsibility of being the case rapporteur for the treatment of the Nav Act, and I have also been the case rapporteur for several issues related to Nav during this period. I remember that at first I thought it was strange that not many people were interested in the reform. Media did not write about it, and there was no full hall here when we debated the realization of Nav. But when the residual problem came, one might well say that the interest increased considerably, and – I say – with good reason, because there has been a problem with great remains and that people have had great difficulty getting answers from Nav. To that I would say, we can never accept that people have to wait several months for an application to be dealt with. We can never accept that people have to sit in a phone queue for hours to ask a question, or perhaps more important: get answers to where the application has gone. That's why I'm happy to Nav through that 710 million grant. kr, as we decided here in the Stortinget in April, has been given the opportunity to increase the number of staff so that people can be treated properly. Implementing a reform of the Nav reform format is not a simple task. That's why we've always known that it was going to be challenging – and now we're there. I believe it is important that the Government and we at the Grand Government constantly address the possible problems that arise along the way, and we must never lose focus on the need for this reform. There was a reason it was started. Sometimes it may seem like many have forgotten it. It was started on the initiative of Stortinget because one was not satisfied with what things were like. That is why we must continue to take responsibility for that reform. There has been a broad consensus on it. I have to admit that I have sometimes been a little surprised that some people have given the impression that they have not really been so much for the Nav reform. It is when things are difficult that we have to take our responsibilities. We owe it to the users, and we owe it to those who work there. We have had consultations on this matter, and we have received many feedback on how the reform is being implemented, both from users and from employees' representatives. Several have reported challenges related to administrative units, and to that I would say, they were never created to be a plug in the system. They were created to release resources so that you can give people better follow-up. That is why I think it is absolutely right that the procedures should now be reviewed in order to find a proper interface between the different levels of administration. It must be followed that the administrative offices shall not be the head of the Nav Offices when processing decisions on benefits. They shall be part of a unit where offices and administrative units have different tasks. We're not going to have more double work, we're going to have less. Many have been concerned that the introduction of redundancy payments and the right to a plan of activity has been suspended until 1 March 2010 — and many regret it. That's what I choose to interpret positively. Because that means we've made the right decision to introduce this. But at the same time, I would like to stress that the Nav offices that are ready to offer users actions in that part of the reform can only initiate. Many Nav employees have pointed to the need for skills building. We're going to take that seriously, and I'm glad that more training is being started to meet this need. I also believe that the employees themselves must be involved in determining which training they should receive. There are many offices around that have had good experience. We should make use of that in the further work. I believe the Government has promoted many good proposals in this proposition. Several employees, more empowerment and, not least, more simplified procedures are good. Now we have to take a great responsibility to follow developments closely in the future and take the necessary steps – and not turn our backs on the reform. It serves no one, at least the users for whom the whole reform was meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e165	"I have a dream," said Martin Luther King once. If we draw that parallel to Stortinget, the Stortinget also saw the same thing – and started with the Nav reform. "You have a dream," said Stortinget: "We want more people working, less in social security, easier for users, and more adapted to the needs of users. That was what the reform was supposed to do. We should ensure comprehensive and effective labour and welfare management. It was in many ways our dream, it was our intention, and it was our hope when we launched the Nav reform for some years back. But time has shown that unfortunately we have not succeeded so far, but I am convinced that everyone sitting in this room has a burning commitment and a desire that the intentions of the Stortinge in due course underpin the Nav reform will be realized. The main point of the report was that in the spring of 2008, what might be called the Nav troll – unfortunately – broke out in many ways. We saw an ever-increasing process time and that the balances grew. At that time, there were some 14,000 leftovers beyond what is called the outer boundary. What did Stortinget do? Well, the Storting took this seriously. That's why they were involved in a re-disposal of 40 million. NOK 60 million, and on that came a grant of 60 million. kr in the autumn of 2008, just to reduce the processing time, improve efficiency and help more users. That was our main intention, that was our goal. That's why I have to say that when we also increased by another 156 million. kr – if I do not remember faults – in connection with the fact that on 26 January this year the Stortinget dealt with the package of measures against the financial crisis, which was also targeted at Nav, I was somewhat disappointed when it broke in the media just after: further deterioration of the situation with even more leftovers, with even longer processing time, with even more users not getting the help that was initially required. I think we all find it unacceptable – which has also been repeated repeatedly by the Council of State, and I'm glad – that people should wait up to two months to get a day's allowance, which was the situation at the time, and that they would rather be sent to the social office to get help. But it was not just day money you had problems with at the time, when you went into January and beyond in February 2009. The daily newspaper had a good and careful mention indicating that over 13 out of 17 benefits, Nav broke his own deadlines for proceedings. It shows that this had a much larger scale, that far more people were affected by the challenges and problems faced in Nav. Furthermore, an internal report by Ernst & Young – if correctly reproduced and quoted in the media – revealed that the entire 70 pst. of the sick pay cases in Oslo, in which no decision was taken, were not included in the official figures of the Nav over arrears. So, 70 pst. of the sick pay cases were not included in the numerical basis! I think that's problematic. It makes it challenging for us, as the responsible trade committee for Nav, to form a proper picture of the real situation of the remains at all times, if it is such that for some benefits you cannot control the actual balances. In addition, it was also revealed that a lot of money had been spent on consulting services. It was claimed, according to the NRK on February 20, that some NOK 2 billion had been spent on external consultants. There are probably many good reasons for using external consultants to get a large budget to work optimally, to need assistance and help to get computer equipment, technology, etc. in place. But it is also a challenge for an agency when so much money is spent on external consultants. There's been a Fafo report where it's pretty clear that it's a problem that you spend so much money on external consultants, and that it can actually lead to a deterioration in the quality of the department that you leave too many tasks to the consultants. When they have left the door and finished their duties, they have not ensured that their competence is left in the building and among the employees. So this is what this Fafo report points to. We have also received some feedback from both trustees and employees, who have been dubious about both employment and not least lack of training. I am therefore pleased that the Council of State takes seriously that there is a need for training, and that it is necessary to cover what the Council of State calls the gaps in competence. I'm very pleased with that. But I wish that the government parties would go a step further and agree with the opposition's proposal asking for the Government to come back to Stortinget with a proper strategy of competence, and that the Stortinget is regularly updated on how the development of competence in Nav is going. I believe and hope that it will be the outcome, and that the Council of State – whether or not the proposal is to be adopted – will do so in the future. I also find it interesting to note what Fafo researcher Svein Erik Moen says to the NRK regarding the development of competence and the use of consulting services: ‘So many consultants may be unhappy with the development of competence in the long term.’ He goes on to say: ‘Standing changes in the workforce result in a low level of continuity and impact on the working environment, and the possibility of finding inappropriate solutions may also be at risk.’ Without operating too much black paint, I think, with respect to reporting, that there are many users who feel that you have not received services that are appropriate, and that, as many of the employees feel that you are putting your head in the wall because you are unable to help the users you actually have a burning desire to help – which they feel is their job. I also want to quote what Head of the Federation Turid Lilleheie in the NTL says in the journal Aktuell on 24 February 2009: ‘Consulting firms were the leaders when the organisational structure was established in NAV. They designed and implemented the reform. In some NAV units, consultants were placed in executive positions during the start-up phase. With extensive project organisation, organisations of the organisations of the organisations were largely briefed, while many decision-making arenas were hidden in projects.» If that's the case, I think it's serious, because it testifies that you haven't been able to include the entire organisation in the implementation of a major and important reform. It proves that you haven't been able to take the employees with you in full. I think that's a shame. I hope you can achieve a good organisational structure and a good organisational culture that will take care of it for the future. I think it is absolutely essential and absolutely necessary to succeed in the Nav reform. The internal report presented by Ernst & Young revealed, among others: that work it normally takes eight minutes to do, takes 12 days to do in the new Nav. If that's right, I also think we have great potential for improvement in organizational terms. I do not doubt that the Council of State, the Nav Director or the employees are trying as best they can to make this work as optimally as possible. The question is: have we created an organisation that makes it possible to achieve the synergies we really want? That's the main question. Then we can also ask questions about what we saw in a media release that I took up at the hearing on 15 April, that Nav Rogaland in January with its 837 employees dealt with the same number of daily money applications as Oslo made with its 1,373 employees. Without dwelling on it in this post, I received a response from the Council of State saying that he has asked the necessary questions and followed up with questions to the Nav Director about it. When 837 employees in Rogaland are able to do the same job as 1373 employees in Oslo, it may be that they have organized the Nav offices very differently from counties to counties, that they have different ways of working, and that they do not have a coherent job and organisational structure. Why is it that you manage to succeed so much better in Rogaland than, for example, in Rogaland? in Oslo? Why are you doing so very well in Rogaland, when you can't succeed in neighbouring Hordaland? I think it's not just about money, it's about how you work, and about taking good and consistent organisational action. Furthermore, there is a much faster and smoother exchange of skills between the counties – i.e. mobility of competences – that one does a little of what Nils Arne Eggen introduced in his Godfoot theory in Rosenborg, that one uses one another to do one another good. I hope Nav can do that too. You take the success of one state and transfer it to another state, just to succeed in doing the best for the users. There has also been a broad review of the National Audit Office’s observations on the follow-up to Nav. I will not go into it any further – it is well mentioned in the setting. It is also well mentioned in the budgetary documents and has been discussed and well discussed in Document No. 1 for 2008-2009, which the Riksrevision has delivered to Stortinget. Finally, I would like to say that I think it is a pity that the implementation of redundancy payments is being postponed. For this reason, the Progress Party promotes proposals to implement redundancy payments, using what must be used by resources to get them in place, because it is a reform that should in principle make it easier for individual case handlers to help individual users. It was supposed to be a simplification reform that would achieve the objective of more flexible, faster and better user handling. That's why I think it's a shame. I have also noticed what the FFO said at the hearing in the committee, that it is feared that an outsourcing could lead to some of them with reduced working capacity being dissatisfied with their will. If that's the result, I think it's a shame. Then we have failed to achieve what is the intention of the Nav reform: to reduce social benefits and more in work. I hope that, at least, good solutions will be provided – although a majority now wants to postpone the redundancy reform – to ensure that as many users as possible are properly cared for. I refer you to the proposals made by the Progress Party alone in the vote and promote them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e219	The representative Robert Eriksson has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e222	The situation in Nav and users of Nav have been serious and need to be resolved. This is why the Government has made new appropriations for Nav on several occasions in the last year, so that there is sufficient staff to do the job and a case of some changes in the way they work. Everyone understands that when the income doesn't come, it's hopeless and impossible. One of the main jobs of Nav is to secure income for those who do not have a job or who are going to have a pension. It is clear that there is a rapid crisis when this stops and people have to wait for weeks and months. Organizational action has now been taken to get it sorted out. Additional appropriations have been granted to increase the number of employees, so that there will be enough people to do these jobs. The assumption of size now is that the residues should be removed. In addition, Nav has an important role to play in assisting those who are unemployed and those who are recovering. It is important to stress what the Committee said in the context of the budget for this year, and which we repeat in the setting here, that it is important that the changes and the job Nav is now making to ensure that people get their money in time, do not go at the expense of those who need more complex assistance from Nav in order to get to work. This applies, for example: those in need of reintroduction or those in need of social follow-up. In addition to the financial crisis and the pressure that comes because very many new people are unemployed, we can risk getting those who need more follow-up and reintroduction at the back of the line. The numbers from the first few months of this year are worrying, because it looks like it's piled up in terms of clearance, so many people aren't coming back quickly enough. I would like to stress that the Stortinget has instructed the Government not to reduce the reintroduction effort, seas if new unemployed enter the queue. This is clearly a major challenge for Nav, but it's absolutely necessary for the individual who needs help, and absolutely necessary for society that we ensure that those who need it get it, because that's what ensures that people get back to work. I would like to use the opportunity to stress that this job will have the same priority at Nav in the future as it has had in the past, and we expect it to be completed. So we're going to put in some money and we're going to sketch out some new ways of working. In addition, there are also proposals for the right to receive rehabilitation money pending disability. In Ot.prp. No 45 for 2008-2009, which deals with temporary unpaid pay, a scheme will be established to provide that benefit pending the determination of a disability benefit. Similarly, provision shall be made for recipients of rehabilitation benefits who have applied for disability benefits. It's very important, because it removes some of the 'holes' in which people can risk falling into when they leave one system and have applied to another. When the procedure takes a long time, they have a benefit. Then it is important to ensure the competence of the establishment. The Committee has been very concerned about this. It's both about what the Council of State has proposed, and what Nav has told them to do, to go through the entire organisation Nav and look at how they use their resources. It is important to ensure that the resources used lead to a higher level of competence on your own account, i.e. to ensure that you are safe by acquiring skills. It's a way of continuing competence in your own business. The Committee has been competent in the first line. We know that there must be a lot of skills there. We have emphasised that there is a need for expertise both in the field of vocational, social and social work in the Nav offices locally. Then there is a proposal for a simpler procedure. I think most of us were very happy when that proposal came. I would also like to stress that the Committee says that the authority of the Directorate of Labour and Welfare to organise seas is firm, but that it may be right to have simplified proceedings and to complete proceedings in the first line relating to more simple matters than just the treatment of daily allowances. We assume that such systems are working, so that there is no complicated handling of simple matters, and that matters can be decided quickly. At the same time, there is reason to stress the importance of following the principles of legal certainty and the principles of legality with regard to the treatment of benefits, including Nav. This does not mean that matters should be dealt with more lightly, but that what is called the interface in technical disciplines needs to be addressed, and practical ways of dealing with them need to be found. We are now working on a solution in connection with telephony. One problem is that people have had to wait a very long time to talk to someone — perhaps for several days. It's unacceptable. The other problem is that many of those who need help from Nav are people with bad advice, and the phone costs have been too much. Therefore, it is necessary to establish arrangements that allow people to pay local rates when calling Nav, sail if they may have to wait a little. So for work relief money: I don't think any of us are happy that it has become a postponement. I think the Council of State has done that with a heavy heart. It also has SV. We've done it because we've seen Nav work so hard that this could have been difficult to impose on them right now when it's as difficult – when unemployment increases rapidly, and there's a lot of other things we've said they have to do. However, for those Nav offices that are ready to use the tool, i.e. the job performance assessment, and the action portfolio is to be opened up to those with redundancy payments, it is possible to use it now. It is important to stress that it is possible within the current system. What we have strengthened through these additional appropriations that have come in the last calendar year has been about the state part of the Nav reform, and that has been absolutely necessary. But when we're going to look forward, it's very important that we start looking at Nav as a whole, as a unit, in terms of municipality and state. That's what Nav should be, and that's what the user expects Nav to be when you get to a Nav office. I don't want you to hear, no, you're going to the municipality. Then you're in Nav. This means that the competence, the funding base and the entire Nav effort must be consistent. That is why the Committee has also said that you need to look at the municipal section of the Nav, so that you can ensure that this matches well. I've got several versions from reality, and some say that the municipal section is better manned than the government, while others say it's the other way around. So I think this is a little bit different. The staff resources currently deployed are necessary and shall be allocated according to the needs of the country. The size does not have detailed knowledge about it, but it will be interesting to follow up on how this is distributed. You can play with and compare numbers from different states, evaluate who has a lot of stress, complicated structure, etc., but it's hard to know exactly which office to manage the individual resources. We don't know that either. But I would like to stress again that the local Nav offices are important. That's where users meet Nav, and that administrative units are going to be effective, is very important. So at the end of the proposal on welfare agencies. At the SV national meeting, it was decided that we want a welfare agency in Nav. We think that is absolutely necessary. But the government is on its way and has, first of all, put forward proposals in the paper on free legal aid. It is proposed to extend the legal aid scheme further. Some legal security concerns are being addressed to Nav users. In this context, we have also wanted an investigation into a welfare agency in Nav. I'm tracking that the system comes, like the need we've had to extend the Patient Ombudsman scheme to the municipal services.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e254	In the last year, we have become aware that the implementation of the Nav reform has not gone completely on track, either with the eyes of employees or with the eyes of users. Statistics and a lot of direct feedback from individuals across the country show this with all clarity. Today's Evening Post and Dagbladet show that Nav is still struggling with payments of benefits in a timely manner. We must continue to focus on this, but we must never forget the very intention of reform: more in work, fewer in social security. This is a comprehensive and complex organisational reform, but it is also part of the picture that a lot of people get good and relevant follow-up from committed Nav staff. It is also encouraging that employees, like all the parties on the Stortinget, still have great faith in the reform. The Christian People's Party has been critical of how some parts of the Nav reform have been implemented. We have been and are concerned about the collection of resources from the first line service in favour of the construction of the administrative units. We want to renew and strengthen Nav's first line service – Nav locally – where users meet the supervisors. Nor are we the trailers of a complete generalist model where everyone is going to do everything. With such complex legislation and the choice of arrangements that Nav is responsible for, this is demanding. At the same time, it is possible that in some areas, one has to have broader competences than in the past. Small offices in the districts face such a challenge. The Christian People's Party has been critical, but also constructive. We have called for measures to prevent the derailment and delay of the reform. The Christian People's Party did so early last autumn. We have also made concrete proposals that we believe would strengthen both the ethos and not least the trust between users and the ethos. The most important thing we can do now is to invest even more strongly in professional skills building on equal terms for government and municipal employees. We need to ensure adequate resources and that employees are given time for training. When it comes to trust between etat and users, I think it's one of the most important challenges we have to address. Many users experience inferiority in meeting the etat's procedural and regulatory procedures, which employees may have to deal with. Users have an obligation to contribute, submit information and meet up. At the same time, many people feel that getting answers and getting relevant responses within acceptable deadlines is by no means as obvious. Then the cooperation and the willingness to cooperate can intersect. That is why the Christian People's Party has proposed several measures to help each user feel more valuable in meeting with Nav. The Christian People's Party supports the proposal to investigate a Nav ombudsman. We are proposing reliefs in reporting procedures that we do not see having a very good reason to continue as they are today. And in a separate representative proposal, we propose to strengthen users' rights to the payment of benefits when formal time limits for the proceedings have passed. It's about dignity -- about the experience of meaning something. We're glad that the other opposition parties are behind this. Finally, I would like to remind you that while it is important to work on income protection and reduce the balances, we must not forget to ensure a good follow-up of users who need complex and longer-term services. Their needs may range from more competence to medical treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e277	Today, the size of the population has a review of the situation in labour and welfare management. We have, as it is referred to, received a number of concerns, both from the hall and from people out there, about the situation we're up in. This may well be one of the greatest reforms that have taken place after the war. I was in the early part of the process so lucky to be on the other side of this system, on the outside, and there was no need for warnings when it came to this reform, that is. not with regard to the idea itself, because it was applauded everywhere, but with regard to the pace of implementation. Several times they were the famous three t-s mentioned: things take time. And I find that today we must admit, counterproductively, that it has crept another letter into the three ts: things take longer. But when we have been described the situation as it is and feel today, I think we need to have what the representative Woie Duesund said, that there are a number of Nav offices that work fairly well; many actually work very well. There are a number of users out there who are satisfied -- let's not forget them. Then we find that there are some areas where there is a shortage. It concerns performance treatment, availability, follow-up — personal follow-up on health-related issues — and delays in payments. This has been attempted through a number of measures, including: through increased appropriations for the establishment. The challenge for the establishment and for us is that the merger, the uniform behaviour, the need for users to have one door to deal with, must permeate the entire organisation. Unfortunately, two days ago I received a message from a county where the telephone service has been strengthened, but where one feels that it is a two-way street with regard to telephones. What was originally sorted under the municipality is not forwarded. It may have its special reasons, but it tells with all clarity that one door does not function as uniformly as we want. However, I would like to commend the opposition for their way of dealing with and commenting on the matter. I perceived it as absolutely critical, and that we agree on the goal of getting a functionally good hub. I think the organisation – those in the organization who have not yet realized that it is up to us in Stortingen to do so – should notice that there is a joint committee that is concerned, not to say very concerned. However, action has been taken. There is money, and let me just mention the measures that stand up: simplified procedure simplified processing of daily allowances simplified documentation in terms of working time, etc. improving ICT solutions enhancing skills Now these grips have to be taken, so that we get to the goal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e308	The representative Samuelsen referred to the term "the three ts" and added a l. I think what the representative Samuelsen says is interesting from the following input: things take longer – yes. But could it have been avoided, if you hadn't had such a strong system focus as today's government has? Could there have been some simplifications? I think so. The offer of welfare must always be based on respect for the integrity of the individual and be adapted to the individual's wishes and needs. Nav’s mantra “one door inside” has become too many a door that you have not entered, and therefore never comes out. The system has been difficult enough, if not sour and messy to make it harder for people. The left concerns users with complex problems and has not become less concerned after the message has been provided. We support several of the proposals promoted by the opposition, but we point out that much could have been done earlier, as the warning lights in the Nav system flashed long before the government took the necessary steps. In the view of the Left, this is one of the reasons why the most important welfare reform in Norway has in recent times come into trouble. So we can add another t to the three t's. The Left’s Odd Einar Dørum sent letters to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion on 29 September 2008 in order to ask for clarification on time-limits in Nav. The left asked that the deadlines should lead to payment. In addition, on a number of occasions, both before and after, I have asked the Council of State questions about the situation in Nav. The left is still negative because the Government has chosen to postpone the implementation of three simplification mechanisms that are absolutely necessary to bring about the Nav reform. It is Nav offices that work well and that have looked forward to using a law that will increase the quality of services and make them effective. The situation of the day-to-day payment shall now be under control. But the financial crisis is not over, and it remains to be seen how unemployment is developing in the future. When a whole in 2008 became aware of the problems of phase-in of administrative units and the negative impact they have had on many users, the Government and the State of Labour and Welfare should have intervened earlier — both in the implementation of the reform and not least in relation to all those affected by time-limits in their cases. Late intervention has contributed to more people being pushed into a difficult situation. Together with the other opposition parties, the Left will ask the Government to ensure that research and evaluation projects are set up at the Employment Service of the Labour and Welfare Act, which measures the transition from social security to work, both in relation to different welfare schemes and in relation to working after one, three or five years. But the main problem in Nav now is they with the complex needs, the weakest users. Both users and Nav staff report that social work is being down-prioritized, and it is affecting the weakest. This work needs to be strengthened. The most important thing about the Nav reform must be that users feel it is easy to access the services and that their competence can be as close as possible to the user. The negative user experience and the focus on organisation and problems are alarming. As many people have said, we have received many feedback. There's a good first-line service here that takes care of people. Work activities under the auspices of Nav shall be the subject of tenders as a result of changes in rules. This leads to Nav staff spending more time on bureaucracy, which we believe is unfortunate in time and affects users. The left wants good labour market measures and choices for individuals to find the most appropriate measure. However, it is important that it is the public that is responsible for each user and that only the action itself can be carried out by private individuals. The queues are increasing, and there are many waiting in Nav for up to 16 months before they get a clearance. This is totally destructive to those who are about to leave the labour market or who are unable to move on because Nav is unable to make decisions. There is a tendency for more people to be put on social security that both want and are able to work. Norway has a per cent share of the EU average. at present, very many disadvantaged people who are in pre-employment age, and it is tragic that this affects even more young people because of a lack of capacity in Nav and that they are being pushed out of the labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e326	Str.prp. No 51 for 2008-2009 provides a status for the implementation of the Nav reform and the labour and welfare management situation. The Employment and Welfare Act has had and has problems with the achievement of the objectives related to benefits, the availability and follow-up of persons receiving health-related benefits. Therefore, the proposal contains both proposals for postponing reforms and regulatory simplification. Today, the size has a good basis for discussing the implementation of the Nav reform. The aim of the measures to be implemented by the State of Labour and Welfare and the economic strengthening already adopted is to give the State of Labour and Welfare a better space for action in order to: ensure the correct performance in a timely manner, i.e.: no longer have undesirable residues, while ensuring the necessary quality of the procedure contributes to the good follow-up of users in line with the objectives of the Nav reform, including good accessibility for users contributing to the increased stability of the ICT systems of the establishment in order to ensure a level playing field to improve the capacity of the establishment to meet an increasing unemployment situation; Strengthening the Working and Welfare Act will help improve the capacity of the Nav offices. This will also help to dampen the pressure on the local services of the Nav offices, and overall this will provide better functioning Nav offices. In some areas, we can see all the results of the actions undertaken by the Working and Welfare Act. In April, 87 pst. of any new daily allowance application processed within 21 days. This is a significant improvement in the results of months before. The condition for the floor is 80 pst. Despite a strong increase in telephone requests, the waiting time for the phone has not increased, but many still have to wait too long for answers. Unfortunately, the April figure shows an increase in the number of stays after several months of decline. The objective is to bring the establishment back to 2006 by the end of the year. The most recent figures show that this will be demanding. I am in ongoing discussions with the directorate about the reason for this. If the figures for May do not show a clear improvement, the Directorate must assess whether the measures they have taken are correct and sufficient. The Nav reform must be user reform. Recently, the results of Nav’s user survey were known. The results show that both the satisfaction of the users with the service and the trust in Nav have been reduced from one year earlier, while the unemployed are mainly as satisfied as before. The study was carried out in February and March of this year. The conditions identified by the study were precisely one of the reasons why the proposition was made. In the configuration, a joint committee, with the exception of the Left, warned that the problems associated with the payment of social benefits should remove the focus from the working line and that the Working and Welfare seat should become a paying centre more and more. I am pleased with this comment from the Committee. Income assurance is an important part of the work of the Employment and Welfare Act. But we must not lose sight of the long-term goal of the Nav reform, more in work and less in social welfare. This is why it is important that the agency has good market work, is good at disseminating and can qualify for the available jobs. Today, Document No. 8:52, the proposal to relieving private manning companies and reintroduction and growth companies of the establishment. My response to the Committee on Employment and Social Affairs shows that the proposals put forward by the representatives of Engeset and Sanner in these areas are well taken care of. Long processing time in the Working and Welfare Act has resulted in the standing of beneficiaries without benefit when an application for an extension of an ongoing benefit or a transition between benefits has been made. The amendment to the Law on fixed-term unpaid pay, which is being dealt with today, and the amendments already made to the Rehabilitation and Rehabilitation Allowance Regulation, have allowed for the extension of benefits for persons who have applied for unpaid pay. The corresponding rules will apply to redundancy payments when they are introduced from 1 March 2010. The Employment and Welfare Act has also been authorised to simplify the procedure for day-to-day pay when the proceedings may be too long. All these changes will ease the workload of the entity, while changing the legislation to the benefit of the users. In my view, this is a better solution than the proposal for a representative, Document No. 8:56, to grant enhanced rights to applicants when the time limits laid down for proceedings are exceeded. I notice that the opposition chooses to express scepticism that redundancy payments and the right to work assessment and activity plan are postponed by pointing out that several user organisations are critical to the postponement. Although the right to work capacity assessment and the activity plan is suspended, the Nav offices, when ready, may use these tools. The postponement gives the department the possibility of a more gradual introduction. I think it makes sense to adjust the previous progress plans here. I also notice that the opposition is asking questions about whether the establishment of administrative units has given less and no more user proximity, and wants the Ministry to provide leadership for further implementation, so that the Nav offices become the engine of the reform and the central contact point between users and the agency. I would like to stress that there is no disagreement that the Nav offices should be the engine of the reform. But I also see it as important that the establishment should have freedom of choice in its own organisation. I don't think the solution is to instruct the directorate about how the division of labour should be between the Nav offices and the administrative unit. But we have to demand that the directorate has to make the solutions they choose work. Finally, I would like to remind you that the Nav reform is demanding and that we have come a long way in organizational implementation. Now it's about making the content work. I believe that the establishment, with the reinforcement it has now received, and they seized it now gradually taking, will provide users with better services.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e365	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e368	I noticed that the Council of State said that the April figures show that the number of stays has increased again, while the previous months had fallen. In February and March, on repeated occasions, the Council of State said that the situation was under control, and that the number of stays went down, which he also said in his article. There had been a fall, but unfortunately there would have been an upswing again in April – if I understood the council correctly. Question 1: Does that mean that the residual situation is out of control and that you have lost the control you had in the past? Question 2: Does this mean that production time has increased and that production efficiency has fallen, i.e. that it is produced much less now? And why has that situation arisen?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e379	Firstly, it has been said by others other than Eriksson here in the debate that the waiting time has constantly increased. So that's wrong. There was a decrease in the waiting time last autumn, as a result of the measures Eriksson himself mentioned. There was an increase in January, and there was a decrease after January. I think that's a good question, because that's the central question: is production going up or down? And if you go in and look at the production figures for each day, you'll see that luckily there's an increase in production in April. In April, it's Easter. Then there are fewer working days, and there is something of the background that the totals are the same as I referred to. But the answer to the question of whether production has gone down is that it has not happened. There have been fewer days of production, and the increase in production has not been large enough to compensate for fewer days of production. I have actually answered the first question about control, but I have never said that I have full control over each single performance. This is a difficult situation. But it has to go in the right direction – that is the objective of the measures now being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e390	The suspension indicates that the number of cases that exceed its own limits, i.e. external cargoes, has increased from 7 000 to 20 000 over a two-year period, i.e. an increase of 186 pst. Behind these figures are thousands of dubious individuals living in need and poverty unwarranted for a long time. We heard that the committee chairman said in his statement that it was a prerequisite on the part of Storting that the balances should now be removed. Can the Council of State now guarantee that? At what point will the balances be gone? It is worrying that in today's debate we are told that the balances are rising again.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e397	In the debate today, I gave information – as the representative says – that the balances are rising, and I answered that question from Eriksson. It's not an information I come with right now, it's an information that Nav himself went out with two days ago. In the case of residues, the objective is to reduce the level of improvement in 2009 to a significant extent. It is an objective, and that is the objective that the Directorate of Labour and Welfare has informed me that it will be possible to achieve, with the resources now being deployed. We should bear in mind that the measures that are now being implemented, which required the financial allocation already made by the Storting, relate to people who are in the process of being employed — for example. 50 people in Oslo, and 50 people in the Employment and Welfare Directorate, central to helping countries where problems arise. Something is also distributed to the counties. That's when these resources come. They weren't there in April.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e404	The Christian People's Party has always focused on those people who need longer and more complex services, i.e. those who are furthest from the labour market. Today, the revised national budget is being presented, and my question is, at a time when many are struggling to get work or are out of the labour market: is this group being given special consideration in such a difficult time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e411	I'm glad of that question. I underlined it both when we strengthened Nav last fall, and when we had the Government's package of measures in January, and I would like to repeat it now, that an important goal for me in the employment policy is that the strengthened measures we are putting in for those who become unemployed should not go beyond those who have special needs in the labour market. There have also been questions about the implementation of measures for them, which I am pleased that the representative is concerned about. There is one benefit that has passed from an estimate allocation to a framework allocation. We've set the level of ambition quite high, so it's about education in a regular educational institution. There we have set the framework so high that we should be sure not to run out of resources. With regard to the other measures, where from previous years we have experience of target figures, etc., it turns out that the Directorate is now in favour of the implementation plan that has been put forward, with the exception of one where we have put the list high in order to be sure that we should not miss out on the means of action. I fully agree on the involvement of the representative, and it is part of our constant follow-up meetings with Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e422	Some of us believe that part of the problem was to postpone some arrangements. But what's interesting when the remains rise again – to grasp it – is that the most disadvantaged users will get even further in line. What could be interesting – and I understand that the Council of State may not be able to fix the time when the situation of those who have complex needs can get a solution – was to hear how he views the problems of those who, after all, will get even further away from an opportunity for clarification. It's going to be a problem that the residual bit stays, or to some extent is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e427	One of the major aims of the Nav reform is that those with complex needs – slightly greater needs than those who go out and out of the labour market, which is also in a situation to be properly addressed – are to get people to work across old borders. It's good to see that one of the points where it turns out that you're already getting results is just about this group that has complex needs. One of the things we're beginning to see, especially where the Nav offices have worked for a while, is that the new way of working meets those who have complex needs, better. In that context, I would also mention another very weak group. It is those who are now on qualification measures and who have never had an offer in the past. There are often complex needs to be met – there are more than 5,000 people on the type of action, there was no 1 January last year. This is another example of some good results from the Nav reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e434	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e438	I am going to be the case rapporteur for draftsmen. 8:52 for 2008-2009 from the Right, some comments are made on the proposals to allow private recruitment agencies to relieve the labour force agency of Nav to the unemployed and to allow recruitment and growth companies to relieve Nav in the work capacity clearance of the disabled. However, those proposals should be seen in the context of the proposals made by the Government in St. Prp. No 51 to improve the situation in Nav. We have, as has been said here several times today, had great expectations of the Nav reform: simpler, better, clear responsibility, faster to work or lasting social security, out of long-term social assistance. There is no doubt that the reform is right. But on the other hand, there is no doubt that Nav has had problems living up to expectations. The first signs that something was wrong came quite early. When I say something, I mean something, because lately it has been possible that everything is wrong – and that is not true. But it was early clear that not everything worked as it should, and that was also the reason why the majority, represented by Per Rune Henriksen, went to work and inclusion ministers last February. The feedback that not everything was as it was supposed to be, was a little too many that they could dismiss as random events. At the time, the Council of State gave a statement of status, that measures had been put in place and would be put in place against arrears and length of proceedings. Increased resources were made available in 2008, 100 million. kr in the form of supplementary appropriations and redispatches. Feedback showed that the development was moving in the right direction. Then came the financial crisis. The Nav-etat was not prepared. We got new leftovers and longer waiting times. Some were referred to social assistance in the absence of daily allowances. The Council of State has presented both the situation and the proposed measures in St.prp. No 51. The increased resources from 2008 continued in 2009. The budget was allocated additional resources and posts in the ‘Action Package for Work’, and in April the Stortinget granted a new 713 million. kr. We already see the results of this. There is a drop in the deadline of more than 13 p.m. only in March. 14 out of 19 counties have a decline in the balances – three of the counties that still have a negative development should be monitored in particular. Indication of daily allowances is already under control. Today, therefore, we are dealing with concrete measures that will further bring the department back on the offensive. In addition to the proposals made in St. Prp. No 51, therefore, further proposals have been made by the opposition through the two representative proposals we are discussing today. IN THE CHAIR: MRS FONTAINE Vice-President 8:56 propose that the opposition introduce the right to payment of benefits when internal time limits for handling cases are exceeded. The majority agree that it is unacceptable that people are charged extra expenses because the money from Nav does not come when they are going to. Therefore, we believe that some form of compensation should be considered, but that this can be done most appropriately by looking at it in the context of the review of the complaints and appeals already in progress. In the second proposal, the Right asks the Government to take the necessary measures, as it says, in order to relieve private recruitment agencies of Nav with the employment service to the ordinary unemployed and what is necessary in order to relieve reintroduction and growth businesses of Nav in the redeployment of sick, disabled and unemployed persons. These proposals must at best represent a never-ending short-circuit. Firstly, manning companies can and do relieve Nav of employment already today, and to a considerable extent. Back-up and growth businesses can relieve Nav in workability clearance already today, and do so on a rather significant scale, except perhaps that the word ‘discharge’ is a little wrong. There should therefore be no administrative considerations governing the purchase of such services, but the needs of users. So there's nothing extra that's necessary for Nav to buy these services. They can, and they do. Some Nav offices are more active in this market than others, but there is already contact between the manning industry and the directorate to strengthen and improve cooperation where it does not work well. Secondly, both manning companies and reintroduction companies report free capacity. There can be no reason in itself to buy more services. Users' needs must be managed, not available from different suppliers. And if that's how the need is greater than what's actually being bought, Nav can buy more. There's no need to do anything extra to get to it. It is hardly the intention of the Right either that we should govern such purchases from here from the storeroom? Thirdly, Nav’s proposal explains to the right that he has problems with the provision of employment services and that fewer measures for the re-employment of disabled persons are being implemented this year than last year. It's a little bit different in St. Prp. No 51, for it states that there are no specific challenges related to the achievement of the target in terms of qualification programmes, the implementation of labour market measures, the transition to work and the follow-up of jobseekers, but that the main challenges are the treatment of benefits, the availability and poor follow-up of people with health-related benefits. And I want to add at my own expense: a very big challenge is probably gaping between the demand in the market and the qualifications of the unemployed, for example. the fact that there are 12,000 vacant building workers, but only 3,000 vacant building jobs. Then it could be that it's not communication that's the biggest problem right now. Then we have received some feedback from the reintroduction companies. They report a decrease in measures for people with disabilities in the first quarter of 2009 compared to the first quarter of 2008. That's right, but the picture is more nuanced than that. If we look at developments in 2009, the number of people in action is more in March than in January, so this is something that is increasing. We're already in a positive development. If we compare more with 2008, we see that we have even more shades in that picture. We then see that there are fewer applicants for rehabilitation, fewer waiting for interventions, fewer clarifications, fewer training and employment measures — but statistics show that there are far more on follow-up, wage subsidies, work practices, labour rehabilitation, organised work, job creation and self-employment. The main groups are in monitoring, training or work practices. Professionally disabled people who are not on the job market today are largely surveyed. Compared to 2008, the number of surveys almost doubled. It may be due to two things, either it may be a build-up of people in screening that does not progress because there is no capacity to take them further, or it may also be due to a more thorough monitoring due to new working methods. I think that is something that Nav himself has to analyse before one can draw certain conclusions about what the accumulation is due to. And before you have safe conclusions, you can't know what actions actually work. Fourthly and finally, there is one last possibility, and that is that the opposition, on a principle basis, wants to privatize parts of the service production in Nav. In that case, we are fundamentally in disagreement, because privatisation will pulverize responsibility and drain Nav for competence. That's the opposite of what users need.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e470	Document No 8:56, representatives of Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Laila Davøy and Bjørg Tørresdal, are concerned with strengthening user rights when applying for social security benefits. Section 11a of the Administrative Act states: ‘The administrative body shall prepare and settle matters without undue delay.’ It is not defined in more detail either in the Administrative Act or in the People’s Rights Act which procedural periods would be presumed to be contrary to the treatment requirement without undue delay. No quantitative targets have been set for the duration of proceedings, nor do users have any economic or legal rights attached to infringements of procedural time targets, we can read in the proposal. The proposers therefore wish to set a specific deadline for the withdrawal of a right, from the date on which the application for the necessary documentation has been registered with Nav. So the idea is not to punish the Nav employees, but to secure the individual user. At NRK.no on 24 March we could read about ‘Solfrid’, which stated the following: ‘I have been frozen and hungry several times since November. Periodically, I have gone without food and have had to ask friends for help in order to survive at all." Such cases or similar cases and individual cases have been too many of them. We hear about what we're reading about it, and the politicians say over and over again that this is unacceptable, and that it should not be. This is probably why Karin Andersen from SV spoke to Glamdalen on 3 April: ‘We have to look at what liability the agency should have for extra expenses people can get if the money doesn’t come in time. Additional costs if bills are not paid in time are fair and reasonable for Nav to cover.» This is a statement supported by the Progress Party. In this case, therefore, the Progress Party is promoting a proposal to that effect. We are promoting a proposal for liability for Nav for users who have received extra costs due to delays in payments. The party acknowledges that not all people have bold wallets to spend on waiting for social security payments, pensions or other social benefits. For some people it goes really bad. It has economic consequences for them for years to come. But in this case, the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party are not interested in strengthening the rights of the users. In this case, as in too many other cases, representatives of the government parties promote good proposals in the media, and then vote it down in the Stortinget. It may be stupid of me to use energy to raise me above such a procedure, but the truth is that such a way of driving politics provokes me quite so much. So the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party have one policy in the media and another policy in this room. And then I ask, is there a lack of your own good policy that makes you have to work this way? It's not just inconceivable for anyone, it's directly unreasonable. The Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party believe that it is necessary to do something about the rights of the users of Nav, and we believe that this is necessary now. Users cannot afford to wait!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e505	We have great ambitions with the Nav reform, and I think this debate and all the debates we have had on Nav indicate that these are common ambitions. We want a welfare system that takes care of people and does it in a way that gives dignity to the users. We want a welfare system that relieves people to an active existence, if possible, and does not allow them to sit in a passive destination position. We want a welfare office that has an effective procedure. These were the visions and dreams, which several speakers before me have pointed out, when the Nav reform was put to rest. The problems have been in line. It is a huge reform that is being carried out, a major administrative reform, the greatest in history. The problems have been raised in the context of implementation, but this is clearly explained both in the documents of the case and in the debate. Users also experience that they do not receive the treatment they expect. The representative Lise Christoffersen referred to the debate we had last February, where we had a – let's say – review of the situation of the Nav reform. Big problems were revealed, especially in Hordaland, which I took up in my posts that time. We have seen that those problems have not been very specific to Hordaland, and action has been taken after this. We take action as the problems arise. I believe that the Government has had an offensive attitude to these problems. I also believe that we agree on the measures that have been taken and the reasons for them. That's why the political debate here is very much influenced by who, with the greatest weight and with the worst examples, can tell you how wrong it is. The representative, Eriksson, addressed the differences between Rogaland and Hordaland, as an example of a problem area to be addressed. There are different ways of working in the different counties. This is a problem that has been addressed a long time ago. You could say a lot about Hordaland. The current situation is that precisely because knowledge has been transferred from other countries, among other things, the situation in Hordaland has gradually been controlled. The situation is much better. The representative, Eriksson, also took over the consulting work in the building. It's expensive, he says, it's bad, and it's a threat to skills building. I agree that the purchase of external services is unfortunate in terms of the purchase of services and competences that the establishment itself will have and develop. I don't think it's as natural for us to start developing a tough ICT department to deal with the whole structure of the Nav ICT system. There, it's natural to buy external services. I think the representative Eriksson argued very well and in principle for it to retain competence and develop competence in its own organisation. Therefore, I think it is a little strange that the representative Eriksson supports the proposal that crew companies should enter and take over the core tasks of Nav, which is just to provide jobseekers. I think that's a very good example of a service or competence that Nav should have and develop in his own organization. Then, of course, you can draw on the resources that lie in private manning systems, etc., but the main thing here must be that it is Nav that will be in charge of these services. Then you can buy services from companies to the extent that it doesn't affect the build-up of skills, and it doesn't go beyond the service offered to the users.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e525	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e528	First, the representative Karin Andersen and SV. I may have misunderstood, but in that case the representative will be able to clarify it when she will have the word afterwards. It is a matter of setting up a temporary Nav agent, or at least assessing whether to have such an agent in place. I understood the representative Andersen so that SV was in principle positive to it, but that one would vote against it in the hall. Why can't SV support what you're for, like all the other parties do, and vote against what you're against, instead of expressing that you're for something you want to vote against? I think that's going to be very inexorable and incomprehensible – at least for me. Then I want to take a little bit of what the Council of State said in the line exchange on the balances and the situation related to it. I think it's positive if you have control of the residues. I also understand that you cannot have control of any leftover from day to day. I think everyone in this room understands that. My point is that you have to control that you have systems that work. I don't think you have it. The feedback I get from a number of people who work in Nav is that those who were promised they would continue, those who went on contracts, now end. They shall not renew their contracts. They've been working for years and building up skills, they can do what they're doing, but they're being replaced by new people, who need new training. It must mean getting less productivity, I think. Given the fact that you are going to go to summer time in Oslo now, I am afraid that this will lead to a further increase in the balances by reducing the number of days, i.e. working hours, to work and to produce. I think that's a serious problem. I wish that this had been taken into account, and that those decisions had been reversed to ensure that you had full pressure beyond the summer to help as many users as possible instead of the result that you might get an increase in leftovers again. Then I would like to add some comments to the last post of the representative Henriksen. I think it is remarkable that you cannot use the manning industry, that you cannot achieve synergy. This is not about privatising services. It is about putting into service the services available in the market. This is about getting synergy and merging skills between the private and the public sector, during a time when there are problems. There's a pretty big difference between that and what's used for external consulting services. There is no one, either the Advance Party or the Right, who has proposed that this crew industry should enter directorships, such as, among other things. has been the case for external consultants.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e541	First, I just want to stress what representatives Henriksen and Lise Christoffersen say, that it is important that we use the resources in Nav now in such a way that we build up competence in the department, and that we do not tap into the competence there through excessive use of external services. So to this debate on both welfare agencies and liability, where I was accused of being dishonest. I think that is quite serious, because what is happening both in the matter of welfare agencies and in the case of liability is SV for. It has worked up against the Government and up against the Committee, and we've got the majority of the committee to say it's going to work with the Government. That's how you work politically. In fact, I feel that I have got that matter quite a number of steps forward through this procedure. Now we're told by the government that it's going to work on these issues, and we're going to start and do these investigations, which others choose to propose in the hall, despite the fact that it's in the majority position that this is going to work with the government. That's what it has to do. It must investigate matters before a system can be established. I believe responsibility for compensation – and that is also stated in the vote by the majority – is actually right to be investigated, because there may be good reasons for doing so. There are some aspects of the matter that have to be investigated, because it has to be defined. There should not be a system that allows Nav to start handling cases so quickly that they make more mistakes than they do, and that there will be problems related to it, and there are legal security issues related to it. A welfare ombudsman scheme must also be explored and looked at together with the other legal aid schemes that ensure users of the public sector. I'm very happy today, because now the majority of the Stortinget says that this is going to work with the Government, and then I see far brighter that we're going to realize the important issues than voting over an opposition proposal in the Stortinget that is not adopted. It doesn't have any special function, but sitting in a government, getting things put on the agenda, getting them put into work so as to get them out of life, there's a work form that turns out to have a lot more to do than opening up a little doors, which I feel the Progress Party is doing today by promoting proposals that the Government is working on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e552	It was the post of the representative Lise Christoffersen that made it necessary for me to have some final remarks relating to our representative's proposal to let private staff companies relieve the labour force of Nav and let the recruitment and growth companies relieve Nav of the job satisfaction of the disabled. When I heard the post of the representative Christoffersen, I was basically a little tired, and I ask myself the question: Where in the world has the representative been when we had hearings and dealt with these kinds of questions? What her posts were primarily influenced by was a rather uncritical estimation of the situation in this field. Here everything was taken care of, here was little cause for concern. Then I have to say that I feel very bad again in the reality we actually, through messages, concerns that we get, have realized that is out there. I think the article was too much of a vi-one-white attitude, which I'm actually starting to get quite tired of. Those who are primarily obliged to use such a debate technique are representatives of the Workers' Party. I think it's a little dressy. On the right, we are primarily concerned with the needs of users when we promote this proposal. We have not said at any time that there is no cooperation between the authorities and private personnel organisations or companies, or that there is no use of the management companies. No, we haven't said that in any way. But we believe that there is much to gain from the fact that, to a far greater extent and with a more offensive grip, one uses the expertise that exists out there, and also the capacity that exists out there. We know that the queues are large in this area. We know that the number of people with disabilities is dramatically high. We know that we are facing a sharp increase in the number of long-term unemployed, and then I think it's too passive just to pretend that everything is in the best order. When we had a hearing in the committee, the management companies were clear on this. They said, ‘Attractors are built up by labour market authorities over decades and shall be a helping hand for NAV precisely to persons with reduced working capacity and complex needs. We therefore find it strange that this large resource is not included more clearly and more potently in the strategy of labour market authorities. The certification companies may be able to implement 6000 new action sites already at one month’s notice.’;» I don't think exactly this is the expression that everything is in the greatest order. Here one should be far more offensive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e566	In fact, there was nothing much clearer after Karin Andersen was up in the pulpit, because what she was saying now was that SV is in favour of liability, and that SV is proud that they have made the government look at this. I then understand that SV has plans to introduce liability, and that is what is in our proposal in the case. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the introduction of civil liability [[...]] That means that the Government, even with the mapping and the work they are about to do, will come back to Stortinget with its results. When that proposal is now put to the vote, I see that what you are doing is not going to be implemented. If it is to be implemented, it must end up in what is in our proposal. I don't understand anything about this, and I actually don't think those users out there waiting for this, either, understand what SV really means.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e576	I only have a few answers to Right Martin Engeset who is getting tired of the Workers' Party's vi-one-white attitude. I guess we could divide by the responsibility for taking such an attitude. When we disagree, we disagree. There's no better-wise attitude on our part, but we disagree with the proposal that the Right comes with. There were questions about where we were during the hearing. We were at the hearing. We heard exactly what Martin Engeset heard. There is no capacity in the manning industry. There is no capacity available in the relaying and growing companies, and the Council of State has now given a thorough response, that there is nothing to prevent Nav from using the available capacity if necessary for users. The right-hand proposal is at best to open doors. It is a proposal that is completely unnecessary. It's just doing it. The active substances are present. We can't do more to put those tools at the disposal, because they're already there. What was the main point of my post – and the representative Martin Engeset can read the record when it comes – was not to paint the situation. On the contrary, I stressed that there were problems. I stressed that there were unacceptable problems. However, I went a little further into the statistics than finding that there was a decrease in the use of reintroduction companies from 2008 to 2009, because the trend suggests that the use is again increasing in 2009. Here is a slightly different and slightly more nuanced image. What is my call and actual expectation for Nav is that Nav analyses the numbers thoroughly, looks at the movements that are below the gross figures, and applies the measures that are necessary. What I'm concerned about is getting measures that work, not opening doors and repeating to the dullness of introducing measures that are actually already in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e585	I was a little surprised by the post of the representative of Kjenaas Kjos. I probably shouldn't be, because for many years we've been experiencing constant opposition proposals on issues that the government says they're working on, and that they'll come up with later. There is a form of work where the opposition chooses to propose something that the majority of people say the Government will work with, and that the Government is working with. The statement states that the majority considers that ‘it is not improbable that such expenditure which the user himself has not been able to prevent is covered by the agency which has missed the deadline’. We ask ‘The Government considers this to be part of the ongoing review of complaints and appeals in the Labour and Welfare Administration’. So that means that the assignment is given. The proposal is unnecessary. It's just the Progress Party that wants to create this confusion, and is a little tired of the initiative being taken from them. I hope that we can raise ourselves above such defects regarding this, and support the Government in the work they are going to do to get this in place. The majority agree with that. So the government is taking orders from the majority of the Storing and not from the minority. So majority voting applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e593	No more have asked for the word to be given to cases 1, 2 and 3. State Council Dag Terje Andersen will transfer six kgl. [[Votation, see below]] propositions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e600	While we've been here, there's been a government council at the Castle. That gives me the pleasure of being able to carry six kilograms. propositions. [[See Minutes]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e613	Then the Storting goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e620	Eight proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Martin Engeset on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, by Martin Engeset on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Christian People's Party proposal No. 3, by Martin Engeset on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left motion No. 4, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 5, by Martin Engeset on behalf of the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. 6-8, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party The proposal No will first be voted on. 6-8, from the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e670	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 5, from Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit a proposal for a separate appropriation for the establishment of professional competence for both state and municipal Nav staff.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e684	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 4, from the Progress Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to submit proposals for the extension of the notification period for redundancy payments and the social security schemes that it will replace.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e698	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 3, from the Progress Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget with proposals for the lawfulness of the right to appoint a new case handler.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e712	There will be so much talk about proposal No. 2, from the Advance Party, Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to set up a system of its own Nav Ombudsman.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e726	We are voting on proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to facilitate a comprehensive monitoring of the gaps in skills and a comprehensive strategy of competence for the Employment and Welfare Act, and that the Stortinget be briefed through the annual budget proposals.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e755	During the debate, Martin Engeset has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take the necessary steps to: Private staff companies may relieve Nav of the employment service of the ordinary unemployed. Post-employment and growing establishments may relieve Nav of the duties of job-unification for sick, disabled and disabled persons.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e786	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Martin Engeset on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 2, by Robert Eriksson on behalf of the Progress Party
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e810	We then vote on proposal No. 1, from the Advance Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for the introduction of the entitlement of applicants for social security benefits for the payment of benefits when the specified time limits for the processing of applications are exceeded by the administration.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-15.ana.ud2155e942	Thus, we have finished handling matters on today's map. Does anyone ask for a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
