ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e54	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e63	The working party is occupied by the feeder role. That is also why there is a promotion of an ostrich proposal to extend the spring quota. We want to make it easier for fathers to have even greater opportunities to care for their young children. Now it is the case that Norwegian men take more responsibility for their children than men in other countries. Today is 90 pst. by fathers entitled to parental leave at home with their own children. There has been a revolution in the care of men for their own children since the introduction of the parental quota in 1993. In addition to the fact that men are at home with their young children in the context of childbirth, the gender equality studies show that fathers today spend more time with their children, and also take greater responsibility for the day-to-day tasks at home. Despite fathers taking a greater part in care, there's a lot left before we have an equal parenthood. Still, women take primary responsibility for children and households, and toddlers are the group that works the most overtime. It's also so that it's only 17 pst. of the fathers who take leave beyond the six weeks of the spring quota we have today. The government's proposal to extend the feather quota by four weeks will be an important step towards a more equal parenthood. In addition, the Government has also signalled further enlargement in the big news about the human role, which will result in father being granted parental leave for at least three months and two weeks paid leave in connection with birth. Norway has had a steady increase in birth rates since the Governments of Gro Harlem Brundtland in the 1990s increased the parental leave considerably and introduced the birth rate. We also see that the number of births is higher among Norwegian couples who share the parental leave. We've seen the same trend in Iceland. Icelandic women have ended up at birth in Europe after they expanded and introduced a third of the parental leave. Another factor is that the number of divorces has fallen slightly in recent years. A 2007 survey showed that far fewer women and men in equal relationships had assessed non-cohabitation than couples in other couples. Extended maternity leave, full child care coverage and longer paper leave are the priority of the red-green government because it's good family policy, it's the best for the kids and it promotes equality. Under current legislation, the maximum social benefit period during which only a father is entitled to take out parental leave is either 29 or 39 weeks, depending on the extent to which he takes up parental leave. It involves a nine-week deduction from the reserve of mother and six-weeks of father's allowance. In the new proposal, the Government proposes to strengthen the rights of fathers by disregarding the principle of deducting the parental quota in cases where only father is entitled to parental leave. This group of fathers will then be entitled to the entire period, with the exception of the nine weeks reserved for mother. This is an important step in strengthening fathers' maritime rights. In practice, this means a lot, among other things. in cases where, for example: Mother is a student and father is working. If mother goes back to the studies, father could take out all leave except for the three weeks before birth and the six weeks after birth. Another proposal in the bill that also strengthens the rights of fathers is that father is now entitled to parental leave when mother participates in the introduction programme or qualification programme. I think it is quite surprising that the Progress Party is opposed to this proposal on the grounds that we do not want special rights for immigrants. I have been in contact with several Norwegian men who marry and have children with foreign women. In cases where these women participate in the introduction programme, the spouses will be entitled to withdraw the parental leave. It often applies to men who have had a long working life in Norway, who have children of a well-adult age, and who find it quite unfair that they are not entitled to parental leave today because they are marrying a foreign woman. I think the Progress Party should perhaps put away a little of this foreign fear and look at the realities of the proposal, help fathers get better earned rights, more maritime rights, than they have with today's system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e89	The party to the progress does not share the views of the government parties on this matter. The main proposal in the proposal implies a two-week extension of the spring quota within the current period of benefit and a two-week reduction in the period of optional distribution between parents. The progress party believes this is a step in the wrong direction. We believe that the parents themselves have to decide how to distribute the leave between themselves when both have earned rights to this. We believe that the individual couple in this context are far better placed to assess what is right for them and their children than the politicians in this room. We have also noticed that the Government's proposal comes before full gender equality has been introduced by ensuring that father's rights are also guaranteed independently of Mother's income. We believe that Dad needs to be guaranteed a self-earning before making other changes to the system. We also note that the Government proposes to grant father the right to take up parental leave on an independent basis when mother participates in the introduction programme for newly arrived immigrants or in the qualification programme for people with significantly reduced working and income. But for the Progress Party, the most important thing in this matter is the lack of freedom of choice for parents. On the basis of this, we will go against the entire proposal of the Government. The Progress Party also opposes the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Left. Together with the other opposition parties, we promote the following proposals: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for Dad to work up the entitlement to the father’s quota on an independent basis.’ Here is some of the solution to the challenges in this area. With this I address the proposal that is in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e113	The representative Ulf Erik Knudsen has taken up the proposal he refers to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e116	Norway is one of the most egalitarian societies in terms of schemes that ensure equal opportunities for both parents in the care of children. The difference we see between the sexes in who takes the primary responsibility for the children is probably more culturally and traditionally conditional than it is economically conditional, as we have seen today. For the Right, the right to equal opportunities is important. But for the Right, the right of parents to choose within the family is very important to care for. Therefore, the right is against a forced third of the leave period. Different families have different needs and desires, which we as societies should respect. Overall political considerations should not govern citizens' own choices where this is not very well justified. We now have a family quota scheme, which is justified by the fact that this will give greater tolerance to employers in the country so that fathers also take leave in connection with birth. The family quota is also justified by the fact that such a scheme will give a father a more equal role in relation to domestic tasks and independence in relation to day-to-day care for children. Rights relating to the parental pension scheme are based on a system in which mother’s earnings provide the basis for some of her father’s rights, including his right to a parental pension. It is Right’s view that the rights of father and mother at birth should be as independent as possible from each other. During the examination of this matter, we put forward proposals for the introduction of an autonomous right of access for the father to the father's quota. It is unreasonable that the father is cut off from the paper commission if the mother has not been in work. Dad can now take out a large part of the leave period if mother chooses to go to work, but not the father's allowance. The Government elects to vote against this proposal. I just want to remind you that the Right's proposal is in line with the Government's own policy in the Soria Moria Declaration, but the Government here chooses to break a promise rather than to equate father with mother in terms of independent rights. Then I'll comment on the device on the spring quota that we're now going to vote on. An extension of the family quota by four weeks, of which two weeks are taken from that part of parents today free of charge, represents a restriction on the freedom of choice of families. We have recorded that the two weeks now taken from the common portion can be retained by father where only father is entitled to parental leave – but this is a marginal group and means little in the big context. When mother has earned the right to parental leave, the family loses the right of access over two weeks in relation to the current system. In addition, maternity leave is reduced by two weeks when father chooses not to take out the parental allowance and mother has a benefit basis. This device is therefore a step towards a forced third division of the period of leave, despite the fact that the Council of State itself has expressed scepticism for such division. The most important thing for the Right is that in a period to come, we also keep the feather quota, but this system does not go at the expense of the time that parents themselves can have. There shall be limits to how we can, with state arrangements, control the arrangements for the lives of families. That mother has special weeks associated with the end of her pregnancy and the time immediately after birth, is well justified by medical conditions, and I see no concern about maintaining this scheme. The device for which this is provided, which extends the parental quota by reducing the common time by two weeks, weeks that can be freely chosen today, is a restriction on the freedom of choice of parents today. I'll bring this up to the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e135	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has taken up the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e138	SV is very pleased that the spring quota is now extended by four weeks by extending the total social benefit period by two weeks, while reserving two weeks of the current social benefit period to father. I agree with the previous speaker that this is a road towards the third division of maternity leave, with which SV is very pleased. Children have the right to get together with both parents, and it is important to facilitate a family policy that allows both parents to share care for their own children and to be active. This is important for children and for equal opportunities for parents. The participation of fathers in the first year of life of the child is important for the early establishment of a good relationship between father and child. Increased parental withdrawal of parental leave has led to more sharing of care for the children. When we dealt with the human message, I boasted of the Norwegian man. They are good at taking care of their own children, and they are good at taking part in the job at home. In fact, Norwegian fathers want extended spring quotas. They want to have a better opportunity to take greater responsibility for both care and work at home. We expect several fathers to take out leave, and that this will lead to more parents wanting a further distribution of the social benefits. And then we know from research that there are actually fewer living breaks where parents cooperate on both care and work at home. That is a good objective of family policy, because we know that a break in a life can be problematic for children. St.meld. No 8 for 2008-2009, on men, human roles and gender equality, a historical announcement is absolutely fantastic to have a gender perspective, a communication that focuses on men and their responsibilities also for care. There, the Government signals that, in order to achieve more equality between mothers and fathers in work and family life, it will give all fathers who have earned the right to a family allowance. This is important to put in place, so that several fathers have the opportunity to take out a spring quota. It is also a major improvement to give fathers the right to a father's allowance when mother participates in the introduction programme and the qualification programme. Then, of course, I have to mention the cash support, which I always do in these debates. It has led to more women working part-time, and fathers working with children work more overtime than fathers without children. This is an unfortunate development for both parents and children. It's a family pattern that I grew up in the 1950s and 1960s. For SV, it is important to facilitate a family policy that respects the child’s right to contact both parents and both parents’ ability to provide care and to be economically active. This is extremely important to achieve equal pay, because what we see is that women work part-time. And where the proportion of women is high in working life, the pay is low, so it's extremely important to facilitate that both parents can be at home and provide care, but that they can also be out and working. I am, as I said, very pleased that the feather quota is now expanding by four weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e157	The Christian People's Party believes that it is important to facilitate that fathers can spend more time with their own children. We therefore believe that the quota should be increased by four new weeks to 10 weeks from 1 July 2009. So the Christian People's Party wants an extension of the total social benefit period for parental pensioners with four new weeks – not just two weeks, as proposed by the Government. The Government Party's solution, that two weeks are transferred from the common to the spring quota, leads some parents in practice to lose two weeks of parental leave. This is very unfortunate. We therefore believe that the total social benefit period should be extended by four weeks, not by just two weeks. The Christian People's Party therefore votes against the majority's proposal for amendments to the first and second paragraphs of Section 14-9. The Christian People's Party and the Left promote their own alternative to lawmaking. However, we are voting in favour of the other amendments to the law, and we are voting in favour of minority proposals. 1 and 2. The Christian People's Party wants to facilitate active parents. It is very positive that fathers take more responsibility and responsibility for their own children. In this context, the family quota is particularly important, because the gender distribution in the parental leave often sets the standard for the division of labour between parents later in life — that is, a good gender equality policy. At the same time, it appears that few couples share in caring tasks. The participation of fathers in the child’s first year of life is important too early to establish a good relationship between father and child. Increased parental withdrawals will help to increase the sharing of care for children, even when they increase. In addition, a better distribution of leave withdrawal is a condition for improving the pay and position of women in the labour market. Experience has shown that earring is what is needed to change gender-based choices. The parent quota has been shown to be very effective in increasing the share of fathers taking parental leave. We hope that an extension of the parental quota will increase the proportion of fathers who take more leave and provide mental support to parents who want a further distribution of the benefit period. According to the human report, the situation today is 35-40 pst. of today's fathers do not take out paid paper commission, and that approx. one in five of today's fathers are not entitled to leave because their mother has not worked more than 50 pst. It's very unfortunate that not all fathers have the right to paper, and the Christian People's Party will grant all fathers independent leave rights. Self-employed rights for all fathers are essential to change traditional family roles. The Christian People's Party has repeatedly put forward proposals and asked the Government to present a case that Dad, on an independent basis, is working on the right to papacy. We do that in this setting, along with the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The Christian People's Party believes that all fathers should have the opportunity to be at home with wages for the first two weeks after the child's birth. In the budgetary position for 2009 we therefore promoted the following proposals: ‘The decision requests the Government to present in an appropriate manner an action on the right of all fathers to two weeks paid leave in connection with birth.’ I had hoped that the council would have a post today, and that she could give a positive signal in that direction. Finally, I refer to proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e184	The representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund has taken up the suggestion she referred to. State councilman Anniken Huitfeldt has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e189	This government has taken many steps in the direction that several fathers will be given the right to benefit. We have also done this in relation to the self-employed. There are many women, but especially, many fathers. The previous government also adopted this as a goal, but was never able to implement it. We have put forward proposals in the revised national budget that the fathers who have a wife or a partner who has worked under 50 pst, but over 1 G, will now be entitled to a father's allowance. We've expanded the basis for a lot more in the direction that everyone is now going to have a federal quota. Let's take it step by step. We have adopted the same objectives in relation to the report on men. But those who sit in this hall and say, "We are for and the government is against, don't talk right." No proposals have been made in the budget of the other parties. We put the money on the table when we say we should do something. And we have!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e197	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 513]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e213	With reference to the comments in the vote, I would just like to make the proposal from the Right and the Left in the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e218	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has taken up the suggestion he has referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 515]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e236	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e245	It is a good day for all workers who have their function as bus driver, train crew and ferry crew. The amendment to the Professional Transport Act guarantees the rights of employees to bus and boat routes that are being tendered. The most important reason why we are making changes to the Professional Transport Act today is to prevent older and sick workers from being excluded from the market when companies are put on the market. Now we take the employees' demands seriously. Everyone in the Committee on Transport and Communications, except the Advance Party, believes that savings through competition should not impair the pay and working conditions of employees. This issue is about politics and shows in concrete terms that it is very important who governs the country. We in the Red-Green parties have committed ourselves strongly to putting in place the new rules – and the Progress Party is voting against. So there's a very clear political difference. It is unreasonable that today's tendering system puts pressure on the working conditions of bus drivers and their employees on boats and ferries. These are important jobs in a forward-looking industry. These occupational groups have a high responsibility and a demanding working day, combined with relatively low wages, and should be saved for uncertainty in view of their jobs when the jobs are put on the market. Bus drivers with less than 300000 kroner in annual pay have been able to handle the situation and have their employment reviewed every five years. It may not be so different to us in this room, but at least we get some financial compensation for the uncertainty. The legislative changes simply imply that the rules for the transfer of activities apply to bus drivers and ferry drivers in connection with tenders. Thus, everyone has the right to further work in a new company and automatically takes all rights — including the intra-company service being transferred, which is of great importance for the choice of turn and thus the safety of the work situation. Several counties place bus routes and ferries on tenders during these days, and it is therefore important that the law enters into force as soon as possible – 1 September. This government is offensive to public transport, and the conditions and rights of employees are an important part of this effort. The future of the industry depends on job security. The amendments to the Transport Act are probably proof that professional policy cooperation is important and necessary. The majority warn in several of the comments about the eroding of the new legislation, including: in the case of subcontractors. We have great expectations that the county and the state will practice the new rules in line with the aim, to guarantee the rights of employees. We also encourage the immediate application of the new rules, that is, before they formally enter into force, as does the municipality of Nordland and the County of Southern Tributes. I am also very pleased that the applicable age limit for driving tickets is raised from 70 to 75 years. After age 70, the driver must carry a valid medical certificate not older than one year — a simple and unbureaucratic way of raising the age limit. The health requirements for driving passes will be the same as today. The possibility for several older people to pursue the profession of driver represents a flexible reserve of labour for the benefit of the transport industry and society as a whole. But most importantly, many good adults now have the freedom to continue working, much or little, for five more years. It will provide increased quality of life for many. This is good senior policy. But the most important thing is that the employees on buses, ferries and trains are facing a safer everyday situation with this amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e271	This proposition has been promoted by the current government in the light of the promises of the Soria Moria Declaration. It has been promoted in the light of a directive that Norway has already implemented, which is based on equal cross-border competition and within the different companies to operate – not only in transport but also in other areas. It's an honest thing to try to strain the competition by pushing sick and older workers in front of you, but I don't think you can reach the goal you want by eliminating all kinds of competition. When the Advocate General opens by stating that this should apply to all employees, I put a big question mark on it. When two companies submit a tender, both companies are the preferred employees. If it is the case that the employees of the company which does not reach the tender procedure must have rights in relation to the position of the company which makes its tender, they must preferably be at the expense of the employees of the company which has won the tender, if they do not believe that they should have double employment, or that the company which wins the tender has no employees, but only a mailbox. Then it might be fair. This will weaken competition, and it is likely to significantly increase costs for those who are to use the service, i.e. the travellers – because there will be significant increases in costs. I wonder who is now willing to submit a tender when, in advance, I am going to clarify that you will become dependent on more employees, new employees, employees who may not want to be involved in their business. It is therefore almost necessary to commit yourself in the tendering process to receive employees. I think that's very serious. I understand that the sitting government has that kind of intentions, but that it is only the Progress Party in this room that is skeptical and will give priority to competition for the sake of business and for the sake of the employees, I think it is a little strange. I also think that this will give the employees a minimum impact. If you want financial compensation for those who lose their job in a company, you get it – the network is already in place. However, even if a company loses a tender, it does not automatically mean that the company disappears. It may lose a route, yes. It should also have been clarified that those who lose the tender should continue the obligations for their employees, not the new company, if they have the objective. Otherwise, we record that the Progress Party has at least reached one point, and that is the age limit. This is good progress party policy. But at the same time, we're skeptical about what happens in the case of taxis. We do not understand – and I do not understand – why taxis should receive special treatment in relation to other groups operating passenger services. We also want the taxi industry to be kept within the limits that apply to others. Now that a government institution wants to extend its powers to impose fines and penalties on the transport industry, we have no faith is correct given all the sanctions that the transport industry is already subject to today. We don't think the state here has any other intentions than to get more money into the treasury. I take up the proposal of the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e286	The representative Per Sandberg has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e289	I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough job on this matter, and the Christian People's Party is essentially joining in on the conclusions of the proposition. We are in favour of competition, but we are also in favour of the rights and conditions of employees in the labour market. It is very important that we safeguard the rights of employees in the event of the outsourcing of public transport. Bus drivers, railway staff, ferry crews, boat crews, speedboats and Hurtigruta are now being assured of their jobs in the context of competitive outsourcing and transition to a new company. It is particularly important that the transition to a new company does not contribute to weakening the pay and working conditions of employees. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the use of competition in public transport prohibits social dumping. Fair and healthy competition is important, but this must not be at the expense of employees' rights. The Christian People's Party is also aware that different interests have pointed out that these changes can distort competition. In that case, the Government must return to the Storting with proposals for changes. So I noticed the post from the representative Per Sandberg. In other words, the party of progress, the party of people most, as they call itself, those who are most concerned with competition and liberalisation in the transport sector, will not be involved in strengthening the labour rights of most people. This confirms a suspicion that we in the Christian People's Party have had for a long time, namely that there are not the ‘most people’ who count the most for the Progress Party on issues of labour rights – here it is the company and the employer that it is important to protect. The Christian People's Party is also satisfied that the age limit for all those engaged in professional transport in return for payment is raised from 70 to 75 years. Older drivers are an important resource for the transport industry and for society. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party believes that there is nothing to suggest that the taxi industry should have a different upper limit than all the other groups involved in this type of transport. So we want to equalize the taxi industry and remove the upper age limit for taxi runs, which is now 70 years old.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e304	The Government has made proposals for amendments to the Professional Transport Act and the Railway Act. The proposal contains rules on the rights of employees in connection with the use of competition in public transport, the prohibition of social dumping, the raising of the age limit for driving tickets from 70 to 75 years, the possibility of charging for less serious offences, the removal of the self-declaration system, the introduction of the obligation to authorise certain combinations of vehicles and some amendments that I could say are without material consequences. Following presentation, the rules of Chapter 16 of the Environmental Protection Act on the transfer of activities shall apply to the use of competition for the award of public service contracts. The proposal applies to national public transport services by road, by sea and by rail. The proposal was made on the basis of the statement in the Soria Moria Declaration that workers of suppliers engaged in public transport must be guaranteed the same rights in the case of transfers of services as in the case of transfers of activities. The aim of the submission is to strengthen the rights of employees in the public transport sector and to prevent savings from being made through the use of competition as a result of a weakening of the pay and working conditions of employees. It is particularly important to prevent older and sick workers from being excluded from the labour market as a result of the use of competition. Upon receipt of a contest, employees shall be entitled to retain the terms of the contract of employment, etc., in the event of termination of the contract of invitation to tender. The rationale for introducing specific rules for public transport is the desire to counteract the adverse effects of the introduction of competition in a sector that has previously been characterised by stable jobs. Proposals were also made for the legalisation of the prohibition of social dumping by means of competition in the public transport sector. Such a ban already applies in the road and maritime transport sector, but has until now been laid down in regulations. For the railway sector, such a ban would be new. Furthermore, the Government proposed raising the current age limit for driving tickets from 70 to 75 years. After age 70, the driver of a vehicle in the carriage of passengers must carry a medical certificate not older than one year. The health requirements for driving passes are the same as today. Increases in age are reasonable given that there is a general improvement in the health status of the age group up to 75 years compared to the early 1970s, when the age limit was last assessed. Provision is made for the right to charge fees in cases where the driver of a motor vehicle does not carry the licence required under the Professional Transport Act. The proposal to remove the self-declaration scheme is justified by the fact that the verification considerations originally justified by the scheme are currently being addressed in other ways. The other parts of the submitted have little or no material effect. I have with pleasure noticed that there is a broad consensus in the Stortinget on the submitted. The willingness to ensure the rights of employees in the public sector to tender and to prevent competitive tendering in the public transport sector from weakening the rights of employees is great, which we, among other things, do. heard in the previous article. As regards the date of implementation of the law, 1 January 2010, I have noticed that the majority of Stortinget wants the rule on the rights of employees in the event of tenders to apply from 1 September 2009. I have also noticed that the majority at Stortinget asks the Government to assess whether it is possible for the State to practise the new rules on the rights of employees at an earlier date than when the new law entered into force using competition in the ferry service for which the State is responsible. I will certainly follow up on this. A minority from the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left ask the Government to provide for the necessary legal and regulatory changes, so that the upper age limit of 70 years for holding taxi licenses is changed, in line with the age limit for all the other groups authorised for transport in the professional context. There is a fundamental difference between the need-tested regulation of taxis and the regulation of bus and freight runs, where all those who meet certain qualification requirements can freely establish transport activities. In the same way, the holder of the bus or freight licences may transfer the activity to third parties only if he obtains the necessary rights. Thus, the system of personal time-limits is a special scheme justified by the special rights regulation for taxis, where the permission authority determines the number of permits in a driving district. The limitation of the time allowed is a well-known condition for those who operate in the taxi industry and a fundamental factor in ensuring the recruitment of both the driver's profession and, consequently, a profession as a privilege holder. I am referring to the fact that the background to the need-tested authorisation system is for the public. The system we have today, with the right to free taxi tickets for full-time drivers, is a crucial element in the needs tests themselves in order to ensure recruitment and thus to ensure that users of taxi services have a decent offer over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e336	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e339	I note that the Council of State argues that the reason for such a presentation is that there is a need to strengthen workers in some industries, which today have been almost at peace with competition – it is implicit in what is said by the Council of State. Then my question is, are you going to continue this principle to the construction industry? Should this principle be passed on to other areas where competition is strong and tough, to small and medium-sized enterprises? Is this principle to be applied also to other professionals, other businesses, or is it only this profession to be covered by this new law and to be protected against competition?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e346	I can answer that very briefly. I think the representative Sandberg is aware of the answer. The answer to this is 'yes' – in the sense that the bill that is here refers to the professional groups that the representative Sandberg addresses here. I also think that the Sandberg representative sees that there is a certain difference between the specific situation of the transport industry, where some companies have a very large part of their work linked up to individual agreements that expire at a given time, and other industries where there is a slightly greater dynamism with different types of contracts, such as goods at different times, and which also expire at different times. For employees of smaller companies, who have a substantial part of their work related to one contract, against, for example: a county municipality, the termination of such a contract will be decisive for the continued operation of its activities in the form in which it has had. Then the relationship to contracts and offers is, of course, significant also for other professional groups, but not in the same way as what we see here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e353	That was very interesting. My other question concerns the relationship with the EEA Agreement. I assume that the Government has quality assurance that this is not a matter for the EEA Agreement at all by submitting such a bill and having it adopted. It's very interesting, too, if you imagine a scenario in which foreign companies, possibly from the Baltic States, Poland or anywhere, had to win a tender and hold the contract for five years, and then possibly lose the offer to a Norwegian company. Then I understand that the Norwegian company becomes responsible and obliged to take in the employees who had the tender, possibly from Poland or Lithuania, after five years. Have I understood that correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e363	The legislative proposal is to understand in that way that the employees of the undertaking which has been entrusted with the transport sector are entitled to employment if it is another company taking over the business after a new bidding round and a new contract has been written. – So the answer to the question is yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e368	There is no surprise in this case from a government that, as soon as it came to the taboo rights, started to reverse efficiency and competition measures. In the post office, the brakes were put on and the competitive outsourcing in the railway sector was rejected. Is it so that we can expect a rollback within the road construction, that the government will now take Mesta into the Roadway again? Is it true that there is one contractual relationship that is essential to be exposed to competition or not? In case there is one contractual relationship, it means that at least those waiting for concession renewal, for example: at Torp Airport, which is a private airport, but has one contract and a relationship to deal with, can the conditions in the future be expected to meet?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e373	It's interesting to try to capture the entrance to the rhetoric from the representatives of the Progress Party here. On the one hand, I perceive that there is a great deal of concern about the proposal that seems to be adopted, while at the same time I hear a great deal of impatience that it does not come any more of the same in other areas. As I replied to the reply from the representative Sandberg, what is actually in that bill here, in the government's policy, now probably supported by the majority of the population. What's not included here, it's not included here. I think that is quite obvious, and that is the framework for what is now being done by the majority, that is to say to link it specifically to the transport sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e380	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e385	Today, we strengthen the rights of bus drivers, ferry crews, ferries and train crews in Norway. For many years, employees in these establishments have experienced considerable uncertainty about tenders in public transport. The greatest uncertainty has been whether they can keep the job if their company loses the competition. In addition, wages, pensions and local agreements have been put under pressure. There are examples of bus drivers who, at 30 years of seagoing service in a company, have had to join a new company, where they have had to start at the very bottom of a new employer and have had to thank them for the less attractive tours. I think this is a bad thing and a bad culture. It is particularly bad for bus drivers who have often earned less than 300000 kroner a year. The government will bring this gross injustice to life. That is why we are now implementing amendments to the Professional Transport Act that are to stop this. The working party has been committed to this matter for a long time, and is now committed to putting the law into place. This is an injustice that we have had for many years, ever since public transport tenders were opened. The Right-dominated Bondevik II government, with a Minister of Transport from the Left, did not lift a finger to put this code in place. This proposal was in fact on the table in the Ministry of Transport already under the Stoltenberg I government at the time Terje Moe Gustavsen, now road director, was Minister of Transport. The new government and the proposal were put away in a drawer, or what's worse. The Progress Party has warned that they will vote against the strengthening of the rights of workers in public transport, and here the Progress Party shows its true face. I can assure you that it will be remembered. We in the Workers' Party will remember it, and we will remember it. The trade union movement will also remember, and I have already read newspaper headlines that show clearly that the Transport Workers' Association has brought with it the Progress Party's view of workers' rights. There is a lot to say about the Progress Party's syllable argument in this setting to say no to the new paragraphs. The Progress Party relies on the support of the Hearing Officers and at least they have opted to disregard a unanimous yes from the Maritime Organisations, from the YS and not least from the LO, the Transport Workers' Union and the Railway Federation. This is a visible proof that the Progress Party is not in favour of the rights of employees, and in particular when the Vice-Chairman of the Advance Party, Per Sandberg, hassles this and calls it to push older workers in front of him. Of course, the rights of older workers must be respected in the same way as those of all others. It's clear it's bloody unfair when you've been in a company for 30-35 years, to be put in the street just because your employer loses a tender. It is unacceptable, and we will live to see it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e396	It was the representative Sandberg who now got me to take the floor, when he claims that we push the elderly and the sick ahead of us in this matter. But the background is exactly what Truls Wickholm was about, that before it was opened up for supply in public transport, they had added far-reaching conditions. They had a certainty of continuity. After an open-ended supply, which was so convenient enough, opened up one at the same time for a very insecure for them to add and their future. What this is all about is that they are added to a company that has the transport today, and they will have the right to continue in a new company. Sandberg points to those who miss the offer, but it's about creating a continuity for those who are already in that business. I note that the Progress Party is very much in favour of competition, but they are therefore in favour of competition also on those who add their working conditions, because that is what will in that case become the competitive element between the companies, if one does not have a right for them to add. With that, the Progress Party, which also the representative Jan Sahl was in, reveals that there is no party for most people. Had it been for most people, they would have been occupied with the dishes of the workers. It gives minimum results for them added, says the representative Sandberg. Yeah, then it's a little strange that they added just so much of it. As Wickholm also pointed out, the Transport Workers' Association has been very involved in this matter, and it was a great joy when they realized that there would be a great deal for this bill. Today, Stortinget makes a hugely important decision for many people in this country who have felt very unsafe about the work situation. They are now getting a much more serious situation in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e407	I hear from the Workers' Party's representatives' posts here that there is an election campaign over the pulpit. I refer to the answer to question No. 1 in connection with this case: «The proposal for new provisions of the Professional Transport Act does not lead to amendments to Chapter 16 of the Working Environment Act. The proposal extends the scope of the relevant rules of the Working Environment Act by applying the rules to the use of competition also in cases where there is no transfer of activities in the sense of the Working Environment Act.» We're dealing with the Working Environment Act without any problems. We want competition and we want to compete with the provisions of the Working Environment Act, but we see no need to specialise in a particular profession and thus forget many others. If you run out of this line, you should go in and fight competition in many contexts, and not least in the private sector in general, where you live with competition every day, every week, every month, every year – and live well with it without special protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e419	Honestly – someone in this room must have taken too much Möller's Tran! This is not about countering competition. This is about ensuring the rights of employees. That is what the Professional Transport Act is all about. Let's be clear: we're different. That's why we represent different parts. But at least let's have respect for diversity. There can be no shock that this government will strengthen employees' rights, just as I am shocked that the Progress Party will only strengthen employers' rights. But we're talking about employees' rights. There is no question of banning competition, which someone has been faced with. This applies to those who have had a job for many years and who are happy to lose all the rights when other companies take over. That's who we're talking about in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e426	I think the previous speaker is at best guilty of a misunderstanding. As the representative Sandberg tried to explain in his post: if you initially have two running bus companies – let's call a spade – two operating bus companies with employees in both companies, and one wins a contract that the other company currently has, it's like we want a level playing field for both of these companies. That way, we take care of the employees of both companies. Here you add a race that gives extra good rules for one company, but worse working conditions for the other. Then the totality is not necessarily such as to improve the rights of employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e431	I think it is the representatives of the Progress Party who are guilty of a misunderstanding. There are very few bus companies in this country that are set up with double employees. Very often it is that those who win tenders have to take over the employees of the uncompetitive company. The problem is they just choose to bring the youngest, the freshest and the lowest-paid. What we're sure now is that even those who have worked for a long time, those who have a tired foot, or who have earned high pay rights, are allowed to be on top. So it's the Progress Party against securing. This is equality between the two companies, because we ensure that both companies have to take with them not only the cheapest employees, but perhaps the most expensive, the ones with the longest experience. This is also to ensure the principle of seniority. I think the Progress Party has a very narrow understanding of competition. If the only progress party is able to compete on, the employees' rights, the employees' wages, you're relatively imaginative. That competition should be about, if there's any point in it, finding smart routes, finding effective solutions. It should not be to make sure that employees get the worst pension, the worst pay and the worst job security conditions, which we have seen over the last few years that much of the competition has been about. If this has not been achieved by the Progress Party, the party is very poorly prepared for this debate in Stortinget. So I keep my words when I say that the Progress Party today shows its true face, shows that they are not in favour of employees' rights. Workers have addressed this problem over and over again – certainly also with representatives from the Progress Party. So to the Working Environment Act. This is not an avoidance from the Working Environment Act. I did not understand the references to the representative of Sortevik. This is only about the fact that the rules applicable to business transfers, i.e. that one company acquires another, are now also applicable when a bus company wins a tender in an area. We're looking at winning a bus route the same way we're taking over a company. It's equalizing the two relationships. It's dealing with the Working Environment Act, it's not going away from it. At least that's not what the Progress Party helped to facilitate in the last period, namely to drastically weaken workers' rights in the Work Environment Act. Fortunately, we got that fixed when we took over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e440	There is one thing that is at least certain, and that is that the different parties show their true face – not all parties, but some parties do. I record that some parties that have previously had the opportunity to do something about this, do not do it and are today standing on this pulpit and looking for suspicions against the parties. I must be allowed to say that I have also had my suspicions against individual parties, and they have been strongly confirmed to me. It almost seemed as if it were the LO leader who had made contributions here earlier in the debate. The representative of the Fall says this is not about competition, but the summary says that this is about competition. Of course it does. At the same time, it is about workers' rights. I ask not to get that kind of comments from the hall when I keep posts in the hall, as Eirin Fallet is very good at giving. I don't think that's in its place. You don't agree. You deal with a case, and the case is the Competition Act, the case is the employees' rights. Then we disagree! I believe that this case does not strengthen the rights of employees in any way if you sum up the employees of two companies or in all companies exactly the same. Competition is weakened, and this also makes the conditions of employees worse. That is what is the starting point of the Progress Party. What the representative Sortevik made clear in his statement was not to quote an answer from the Council of State. The Working Environment Act will take care of the elderly and the sick. When I say that the proposers are almost pushing the sick and the elderly in front of them, it is because they clarify it in comments. But there are differences. Of course it is. We don't think this will produce any results for the employees, overall, but I'm quite sure, based on the answers the Council of State gave me during the line change today, that Norwegian workers will be out of competition within a very short time, for foreign companies will also, through the EEA Agreement, relate to this law. It will be interesting to see what the proposers say when Norwegian workers are out of competition because of the kind of special laws in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e454	I am sorry that I said yes a little loudly, so the representative Sandberg got something to be annoyed about. I have the impression that he has been doing it almost all day. But I just want to inform this room about what this case is about. It is: ‘Challenge of the Transport and Communications Committee on the Law on Changes in Professional Transport Law and the Railway Act [[add their rights to competition in public transport, etc.]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e459	The representative Arne Sortevik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, up to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e462	It's just enough to quote the answer to question number. 2, to clarify what I said in my previous post: «When a new company takes over the operation of a service, under the applicable law, it is considered to be a transfer of activity only if the conditions of paragraphs 16-1 of the Working Environment Act are fulfilled. The purpose of the proposed rules of the Professional Transport Act and the Railway Act is to apply equivalent rights even when the conditions of Section 16-1 of the Working Environment Act are not fulfilled.’ So here you expand the legislation in the Working Environment Act for a selected group of workers. We think that's wrong. We believe that the law must apply to everyone in all situations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e472	It is true that the labour-environment law is fundamental and indebted to all. There are some people here who are connected to public transport, who get extended dishes, and it's done quite deliberately. The Progress Party is concerned about the companies that are missing, saying that they are equally concerned about all the companies in a bid competition. The point here is that a company has an agreement with a county municipality on transport, they are added to the company engaged in that transport. We want to give them a good deal, that if another company wins the offer, they have a right to continue with that operation. They run just enough for another company, but with the same conditions they've had before. If another company then put in the offer and don't get it, they haven't had people in this business. We are concerned that those in the company will feel safe about this. So there's a difference here, and that's the one that seems like the Progress Party hasn't got along completely.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e479	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e495	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 3 minutes to each group and 3 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, also have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e502	A little less temperature, I hope, in this matter! It is a unanimous committee that now wants to make changes to the rail liability law and the COTIF law, as it is a little cryptic. It is an agreement on international rail traffic. In addition, we will introduce what is called the Passenger Rights Regulation, from the EU into Norwegian law. The Committee is in favour of both parts. The first issue concerns this by giving drivers from all over Europe the opportunity to be certified so that they can drive trains in other countries. We had a case about that in Stortinget earlier today, so I don't go into that any further. With regard to the passenger rights regulation, the Committee welcomes the legalisation of passenger rights for passengers. There has been a growing focus on consumer rights in recent years. Not least for train commuters and others trying to get from A to B in Norway, it may be useful to have legal rights related to delays. But not least, those with disabilities, who have now received their anti-discrimination law, are also getting their rights strengthened by the regulation that is now being introduced. The Committee agrees that these are good legislative changes and the Committee is united on the proposed amendments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e513	The case spokesperson did a very good job for me, and I am going to end up with everything the case spokesperson said. I just want to focus on one moment, when the passenger rights are now regulated. In this respect, the NSB has had passenger rights for a long time. It is also stated in the proposal that in some areas, those passenger rights which partly involve ‘better conditions than those imposed by the Regulation’. But as a train passenger, there is a feeling that the dishes are not the passengers that are particularly well aware of. So it doesn't help to have rights and sanctions if you don't give passengers very good information about the rights and requirements they have. When it comes to air traffic, we were very busy with it. It was also a time when there was no information, at least not good enough, to passengers, considering the requirement that information brochures should be kept out at airports and terminals. I just want to stress that it is important that the railway companies now follow up with good information to passengers about the dishes and requirements they have.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e522	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox Olav Gunnar Ballo took over the president's office here. [[See page 517]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e534	Odelstingen goes to voting on case No. 1 to 4 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e541	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1, by Ulf Erik Knudsen on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left proposal No. 2, by Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund on behalf of the Christian People's Party and Left Proposal No. 3, from the Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right Proposal No. 1 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to file a case for Dad to work up the entitlement to the parental quota on an independent basis.’ This proposal will be in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure to send the Stortinget. First, there will be a vote on proposal No. 2, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on social security is amended as follows: the first and second paragraphs of Section 14-9 are replaced by the following: At birth, the social security period is 240 full-rate social security days or 290 reduced-rate social security days. [[48 weeks]] [[58 weeks]] The period of benefit after birth is 225 full-rate social benefits days or 275 reduced-rate social benefits days. [[45 weeks]] [[55 weeks]] In the case of adoption, the benefit period is 225 full-rate social benefits days or 275 reduced-rate social benefits days.» [[45 weeks]] [[55 weeks]] The voting boards showed that there were 61 votes against the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Left and 10 votes in favour. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 14.41.11]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e578	I voted wrong. I should have voted against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e583	The correct result is 62 votes against the proposal of the Christian People's Party and the Left and 9 votes in favour. It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 3, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘In Law No 28 February 1997 19 on public security is amended as follows: Section 14-9, fifth paragraph, last sentence is replaced by the following: Excepted from division are also 8 weeks reserved for the hazard [[Federal quota]] the first paragraph of Section 14-12 is replaced by the following: If during the period of vesting the parent's professional activity has returned to at least half the position and the risk fulfils the conditions for entitlement to parental leave, 40 days of the period of benefits shall be reserved for the hazard: [[8 weeks]] [[Federal quota]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e726	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e738	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e752	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e759	A proposal has been put forward during the debate, by the Olemic Thommessen on behalf of the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to launch an overall review of the various agents and supervision in order to transform some of the agents into supervisory bodies.’ This proposal will be sent to the Stortinget in accordance with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e833	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e842	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e849	During the debate, a proposal has been put forward from Per Sandberg on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the necessary legislative and regulatory changes to change the upper age limit of 70 years for taxi runs in line with all the other groups involved in the transport of persons or goods in professional and/or acquisition circumstances.’ This proposal will be in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e1010	Paragraphs 8, 22, 24 and 27, new Paragraphs 40 (a) and ( II) shall be deleted. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e1023	The remainder of I and III are voted on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e1032	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e1041	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e1224	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e1233	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-26-lower.ana.ud1268e1245	There is no record. Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
