ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e115	The representatives Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund and Thore A. Nistad, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. From representatives Odd Einar Dørum, Laila Davøy, Kari Lise Holmberg, Henning Skumsvoll and Christian Tybring-Gjedde, there are applications for leave from 2 June to 4 June and from the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland for leave on 3 and 4 June – all to attend the 56th session of the Western European Union Parliamentary Assembly in Paris. These applications are proposed for immediate consideration and approval. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. From the first alternate of the Rogaland County, Gjertrud Kjellesvik, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the representative Hallgeir H. Langelandspermition on 3 and 4 June, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are convened to meet during the term of leave: For the West Agder County: Kjell Ivar LarsenFor the Hordaland County: Knut Arild HareideFor Oslo: Alvhild Hedstein and Peter N. MyhreFor the Rogaland County: Sofus Vikeså KjekaFor the Telemark County: Torbjørn Røe IsaksenSofus Vikeså Kjeka and Torbjørn Røe Isaksen are elected to the Lagting for the time they meet for the representatives of Hallgeir H. Langeland and Kari Lise Holmberg respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e189	Kjell Ivar Larsen, Alvhild Hedstein, Peter N. Myhre and Torbjørn Røe Isaksen are present and will take the seat. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 29 May 2009: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 29 May 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 is determined: Prime Minister's Office Government Council Magnhild Meltveit Kleppa takes over the board of the Ministry of Transport in addition to the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs of the time when the Council of State of Liv Signe Navarsete has been ill-appointed.’ The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e206	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Sven Roald Hansen. – Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen and Svein Roald Hansen are unanimously elected presidents of this week’s meetings in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e216	Before the matters on the current map are dealt with, the President will propose that the evening meeting be held — if necessary — at 1 p.m. 5:00. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e232	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3260]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e248	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, it is proposed that matters be referred to the Committee. 3 and 4 are treated together. [[See page 3260]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e277	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3260]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e293	No one has asked for the floor. At the request of the Foreign Affairs Committee, it is proposed that matters be referred to the Committee. 6 and 7 are treated together. [[See page 3260]] – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e322	I was visiting Croatia earlier this year with a group from the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. We were present in the Croatian Parliament on 25 March when they decided to accede to the North Atlantic Treaty of 4 April 1949, as it is called – that is. become a member of the NATO Alliance. The inclusion of Albania and Croatia in NATO underlines and confirms that the future of the Balkans lies within a Euroatlantic cooperation and a transatlantic security architecture. Stability and development, not only in Croatia and Albania, but throughout the Western Balkans, require Euro-Atlantic integration, an approach to both the EU and NATO. Following the fall of the Berlin Wall, both the EU and NATO have played an important role in ensuring democratic development in Eastern Europe and the Balkans. Let me add that NATO's role is often underestimated, but through the Partnership for the Peace Programme and the Membership Action Plan, NATO has since 1999 helped to stabilise fragile democracies in post-Soviet areas and in former Eastern Europe. NATO has helped to build sustainable and democratic structures in Central and Eastern Europe. In this way, the alliance contributes to the development of a stable Europe that together can meet new safety challenges. We have an inter-pelling debate on Russia's security policy later today. For Norway, the relationship with Russia is important. Many of the challenges we face in the north can only be solved through Russian involvement and commitment. For us it is therefore of great importance that the NATO-Russia Council operates. It is positive that contacts have now been restored, as has the NATO-Russia Committee in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly, where the Russians were now at the Oslo session a week ago. There have been two crucial summits in the alliance – in Bucuresti last year and the 50th anniversary of April this year. I want to commend the government's active work in advance of the Bucuresti meeting to get binding formulations on arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation in the final document. The exciting thing about this year’s summit was the decision to develop a new strategic concept. In this process, it is important that NATO's nuclear strategy is also addressed. The majority has just concluded a very successful spring session in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. Let me give credit for the amazing job employees from Stortinget did to make this event work. In addition to the international secretariat, I want to praise the security corps, the officer corps, the house printery and the ICT department, and there are many others. A fantastic job was done away with in the House of the People, such as the NATO Parliamentary Assembly for five days, and even NATO's Council – last day – and NATO's Secretary-General. It was the largest event that Stortinget had ever had, and it's going to be exciting to see what happens when the OSCE is on its way. I think it is politically important that NATO's priorities also have a parliamentary foundation. NATO PA takes decisions and makes recommendations to NATO Councils and Governments. Unfortunately, this year there is also reason to note the heavy human dominance in the assembly. I did the same last year. The strong deficit on women creates a democratic deficit in the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. This is actually marked in trust, management and committees. I think it's also important when the Storting to the harvest is going to appoint a new delegation, that the women's presentation on our part is strong, and in any case is increasing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e348	I will not comment on the content of any of the settings. I just want, after Mr Nybakk's speech, also from the Government to express my appreciation and praise for the event at the NATO Parliamentary Assembly. It really made a very big impression on all of us who participated, how extensive it was. These were not only NATO countries, but also partners. It really went, I think – once again, if I have to say – tone-giving Norwegian media house passed by that we had a very important assembly in Oslo for several days. In this way, I would also like to acknowledge the importance it has for parliamentarians to be actively involved in these matters. It provides a wider scope for Norway and is also a very important channel for the Government to meet these environments. I also want to join the rose that was given to all those who arranged and arranged for such a well-performed event. I heard from many of those who were visiting the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that there was a great deal of recognition for this, and I would also like to express it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e357	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 6 and 7. [[See page 3260]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e373	In the spring we had a debate related to, among other things. The role of the European Parliament and some issues that have been challenging for Norway. The Foreign Affairs Committee, in its comments, stressed the importance of contact with the European Parliament and pointed out that this delegation had formalised its cooperation with representatives of the European Parliament on a regular basis. We have pointed out that this can be an instrument for exerting influence and influence. I wanted to stress it also from the pulpit, because this is important, and it probably just becomes more important in the future. That's why there's also a work going on at Stortinget to look at the composition of this delegation in the future. I also think it is important that more people at Stortinget become familiar with the work that this delegation is doing, and that it is thus possible to link the work even more closely to the existing work at Stortinget, which is also a problem with all such delegations. I will also give tribute to the head of the delegation, who I know has handled this delegation in an excellent way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e382	I would first like to thank the representative, Mr Höglund, who, as far as I understand, was pleased to succeed as head of this delegation, and who also handled it in an excellent way. The annual notification by the EFTA Parliamentary Delegation is a natural opportunity for the Storting to also discuss a little trade policy and work in the EEA. EFTA signed last year a pre-negotiated free trade agreement with Colombia. In retrospect, there has been a debate about whether we should conclude a free trade agreement with this country because of the authorities' attitude towards the trade movement and human rights more generally. There is a highly relevant debate. But it is a debate that we should take on a general basis, as a guide for which countries EFTA is to seek to conclude free trade agreements. It is unfortunate to conduct the negotiations and then take the debate in the context of ratification. The next free trade agreement with EFTA may sign, perhaps already at the Hamar Summit at the end of June, with the Persian Gulf Cooperation Council – GCC. The countries include Saudi Arabia, Kuwait and Oman. Will we then risk having a debate on whether we should conclude free trade agreements with countries that refuse women to drive? EFTA has now started work on assessing the extent to which we are going to impose environmental requirements and requirements for employee rights in free trade agreements. The reports on this will be presented at the Hamar Summit, and should be the starting point for a broader debate on our policies in this area, including here in the United Kingdom. I don't think we're served by a situation where EFTA starts negotiations on free trade agreements with countries by country, so that we risk having these important issues debated first in the ratification process. Rather, we have to make sure that this type of assessment is part of the overall basis of the EFTA policy with regard to which countries and markets we are to work to strengthen our position in through free trade agreements. A key issue in the Committee's work on the EEA Agreement last year was the analysis and evaluation of the impact that the Treaty of Lisbon will have on the EEA Agreement when it is implemented. I will make one point that the Joint Parliamentary Committee has raised, namely that in the EFTA countries too, new proposals must be submitted by the Commission, like the parliaments of the EU countries, to assess whether the proposal is within the competence of the EU or is national responsibility, and for our part: whether it will be EEA-relevant. We have received a preliminary response, which we interpret positively, but the Commission will wait for its final response to the Treaty of Lisbon to be ratified, even though the Commission has already started this procedure in the EU. I expect the governments of the EFTA countries to support the parliamentary committee in this matter. This is about the equal treatment of all Member States in the internal market, and it is about strengthening Storting's opportunities to get early into the work on new proposals that could end up as new legislation in the EEA. It will also help to strengthen Storting's ability to follow up on the issue of a more active European policy. The Foreign Affairs Committee, in its comments, and the representative Morten Höglund emphasised in its statement that the EFTA Parliamentary Delegation could be an important resource to promote Norwegian interests in the European Parliament. I think we must recognise that the interest in the work of the Joint Parliamentary Committee by the European Parliament is not so prominent. With the exception of the President on the European Union side and two or three other members, participation in meetings and involvement in debates is somewhat limited, even when meetings are held in the European Parliament in Strasbourg or in Brussels. The European Union's total attendance has been only during this period when the meeting was to be held on Hurtigruta between the Kirkenes and Tromsø. It's telling us what it's that brings about commitment. I think more action will be needed if the Storting is to strengthen the ongoing relationship with the European Parliament. The most important thing will be that the batch groups strengthen ongoing contact with their batches in the EU Parliament. I also believe that it is necessary for the Storting to establish itself with a secretariat in relation to Parliament, which can facilitate our contact down there, both on the part of the committees, the individual representatives and the party groups. But I also think we should think carefully about whether it would not be wise to have a European committee of our own in the Storting, which had worked this as a main task. We have seen in the last few years that it is quite demanding for the members of the expert committees to find time and capacity to follow the work of the EU institutions in their fields of competence, as well as the domestic tasks. Of course, this would be particularly challenging for those parties which have only one representative in the committees. Some people don't even have one on all the committees. Finally, the EFTA delegation has requested a change in the structure of meetings with governments. Today we meet in December and June. At each meeting, trade policy and EEA matters are on the agenda. Since we have one State Council responsible for trade policy, the Minister for Industry, and one for the EEA, the Minister for Foreign Affairs, it means in practice that the Minister for Trade must also cover the EEA. Therefore, we have proposed that the meeting of the harvest be combined with a meeting of the EEA Council and that the agenda for the harvest meeting be EEA matters. Norway will then also be represented with its EEA Minister. The spring meeting can then concentrate mainly on trade policy. We are still waiting for a response to this enquiry from our governments. I hope the governments of EFTA – that is, an affordable number of them – will agree to respond to this enquiry when we meet at Hamar in June.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e420	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 3260]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e436	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3260]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e452	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 3261]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e471	It seems strange a long time since Boris Yeltsin climbed a tank in Moscow and blew off the coup trial a dramatic August day in 1991. For a short time, Europe was one – Our European House – as Mikhail Gorbachev called it. Ten years later the largest political party in Russia was called Our house is Russia. Now it's called the United Russia. Over the 18 years that have passed since then, more and more people have returned to us – their thinking, both in Russia and in the West, which still constitutes us. Russia is not moving in any linear development from a totalitarian regime to a liberal justice democracy. Where the generation of Russians who grew up under the perestroika will lead the country, is too early to say, because there are different trends at the same time. On the one hand, we see the emergence of a middle class, a private business, educational institutions, and on the other hand, the development in Russia is moving towards democratic elections appearing to play a smaller role. There is an increasing focus on national self-reliance, and there is an increased foreign policy tension both in relation to former Soviet and geopolitical states. Increased trade and international economic relations are blended with a more politicised energy sport, with a growing fear in importing countries that energy resources should be used as a weapon. One striking feature of the last presidential election was that the great tension was linked to who then President Putin would choose for his successor, the favorite Sergei Ivanov or Dmitry Medvedev, not whether the people in retrospect came to support his elections. Real political competition has not become a natural part of Russian presidential and parliamentary elections. For Norway, relations with Russia will continue to be a crucial element in our foreign policy thinking. We need to deal with Russia on a bilateral level in order to deal with common interests and challenges and many conflicts in the north. At the same time, we must deal with Russia through our NATO membership in a way that more immediately needs to take on the broader geopolitical assessments. The Norwegian relationship with the Russians is based on being non-provocative and engaging. We succeeded to a great extent during the Cold War, and it continued to form the basis for our thinking afterwards. In this line, the Minister of Foreign Affairs has full support. But to continue this line in a time of challenges other than before, it might be worth reflecting on what kind of form such a line should get, what dilemma it offers and what strategies we have to meet these dilemmas. Our thinking about the bilateral relationship with Russia has been developing since the end of the Cold War. In the last half of the 1990s, the policy was characterised by aid intensity. The Nordics saw Russia as a poor and chaotic country, a country with many unsolved tasks – a country that simply needed help. The TV reports showed environmental problems, tuberculosis patients, or children’s homes in Murmansk. It took quite a while before Norway took over how this paradigm was eroded by developments in Russia, and it took too long before Norway took on board that this attitude led Russia to see other Western countries as arrogant as to how they looked at Russia. Today, the main thought is commitment on equal footing. We are committed to Russia in particular in areas where we share common interests and where small Norway and large Russia share a common perspective. Oil, gas and fish are important examples. But the question is what challenges such a line will meet in the coming years. We just have to avoid being accompliced again. Exposure policy must be supported by firmness and realism. If we look at e.g. Lavrov's talk of American and Russian relations is free of the idea that we have of more multipolar systems and global thinking. In May Russia presented a new security policy strategy paper. Our reading of the document is that it shows that our ‘dem’ thinking is strengthening in dominant security circles in Russia. The document says, among other things:One crucial factor in the relationship with NATO is that it is unacceptable for Russia to move its military infrastructure against our borders, and to try to provide the alliance with global functions contrary to international law. The document also mentions the fight for natural resources, and lists in many areas aliens, foreign ownership or dependence on imports as threats to Russia’s security. The Arctic regions are specifically referred to as an area in which Russia should do more to strengthen its borders. To the extent that we – they – are on the rise, it also makes bilateral engagement difficult because foreign activity in Russia is more easily interpreted as unwanted interference, or at worst as espionage. During the Cold War, the “dem” perspective created at one level minor problems for foreign policy, because the commitment for natural reasons was more limited. Now, when we're applying for engagement, we have to reflect on what the differences in this world view can lead to. The UK has seen the problems associated with the British Council's work on democracy, which has thus been met with espionage charges. The conflict has indirectly broken British-Russian cooperation in TNK-BP. In May, two Russian brothers were sentenced to industrial espionage. One job for TNK-BP, the other for the British Council. Foreign media seem to believe that the accusations had a political background. The conflict around Telenor's shares shows one of several possible issues we may have to deal with more often in the time that comes. A conflict in the Shtokman partnership à la conflict in TNK-BP and British Council will face even more difficult challenges than the UK. What dilemmas do our engagement line meet against such a rug? Would the desire for involvement impose unreasonable bonds on other reasons? How can we communicate with Russia that the desire for commitment is sincere, while keeping in touch with a wide range of political and civil society organisations? From a Norwegian perspective, it is desirable to reduce the tensions that create us–them perspective. Norway should also be able to understand what lies in the Russian thinking about the West, about NATO, about national ownership and control. At the same time, we cannot base the Russian perspective on our policies either nationally or in NATO. We cannot allow Russia to use Norway to split NATO. The Russians may not be vetoed in NATO’s strategy, either in the field of missile defence or by establishing the alliance of the former Soviet states. That's why I think it's important that we are very clear that NATO is at the heart of Norwegian foreign policy and that it has little intention of pushing Norway at this point. Although Russian concern can sometimes be understood, it does not mean that it is always legitimate. Unfortunately, Russia rarely expresses any particular degree of understanding that several of its neighbouring countries want an alliance relationship to the west. The challenge for Norway will be to communicate, on the one hand, that we see the Russian views and assess them in our policy design where it is natural and constructive, but on the other hand to be clear that no country, nor Russia, has any veto or right to have an impact on what we believe is unreasonable views in relation to NATO policy or Norway's policy in NATO. Balancing our political line when necessary and legitimate Norwegian political decisions and views are perceived as provocative in Moscow is a demanding but very important exercise. The Strategy Paper also states that Russia needs to increase its awareness of defending rights and legitimate interests to Russian citizens abroad. Countries such as Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and Georgia are concerned about such opinions. For a small neighbouring country such as Norway, it is essential to maintain the full independence of Russia’s neighbouring countries. So developments in Russia are bringing new dilemmas. My question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is therefore: how does the Minister for Foreign Affairs evaluate the new Security Policy Strategy Paper? How does he view the dilemmas created by developments in Russia for Norwegian Russia policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e510	Thank you for a good and important topical question, and thank you for an interesting and profound article. Let me, before I go into the questions, say this: on the basis of developments in both the areas dealt with by the interpellant, the general development of Russian society, Russian economy, Russian politics and the social development of the country lies. In this complex picture, we find the core of the development in the defence and foreign field. Here is my assessment that we are dealing with a country that is still in a transitional phase – in a transition – from one historic phase to another. We do not know with certainty what the transition will do with Russian society and Russian democracy. Free Russian social scientists believe that Russand is 'lost in transition', that the path has gone away from democracy and towards an authoritarian system. Others believe that it is in the transition phase around the world that it must know its time of visit and engage Russia, weave it into a European and international commitment agency. This is itself a topic for an important discussion, but we don't have much time for it here. Let me give you a short version of the Norwegian attitude. Norway has served to demonstrate a thoughtful combination of firmness and commitment to Russia: firmness in terms of neighbourly cleanliness, firm sovereignty, modern and present defences, a recognizable alliance and contributing to stability through predictability in the north. At the same time, we should do our utmost to clarify the possibilities of the Russian transition – by developing the Northern Neighbourhood, forming innovative regional cooperation from the Arctic via the Barents region to the Baltic Sea, and speaking for Russia to be integrated into structures such as the OECD and the WTO. And we can push for closer contact between our civil societies, which is the European recipe for peace and popular coexistence. So to Russia's new security strategy, presented by the Russian Security Council on 13 May. The Council shall be chaired by President Medvedev. The strategy replaces the National Security Concept from 1997 and will apply until 2020. The document shall be the overall governance tool for the strategic planning of Russian policies for the period up to 2020. The strategy is wide-ranging and, as the inter-pellant points out, has also received mixed reception in the Russian press. The liberal capital newspaper, Nezavisimaja Gazeta, writes that the document is utopian and obsolete, and the strategy seems to take too little account of the financial crisis. Western media have, among other things, focused on the strategy’s mention of the Arctic Resource Race as a security risk, and that Russia suggests possible use of power in this respect. In other words, there is time for a certain interpretation of text – and let me add: context interpretation. We need to understand both the text and the context. The strategy’s reference to Russia’s position in the world contains few surprises. It is a confirmation of known Russian views. It mainly reflects current Russian foreign and security policies rather than launching a new one. It underlines, for example: the need for reform of Russian armed forces to ensure Russia’s defence capabilities – an ambition that has been mentioned many times earlier, since the 1990s. We know that Russia will continue to undergo demanding and painful reforms, including: human resources cuts. The strategy does not carry bids for major changes in Russian foreign policy, but provides insight into a way we must assume reflects political leadership in Russia today. A new feature that we notice is a strongly expanded security concept that is being taken into account. The threat picture is wide and ranging from military conflict over energy resources to terrorism, well-being, demography, alcoholism and a failing banking system. We note with interest that one defines as one's own goal the success of improving the human rights situation, through the development of legal systems and laws. In other words, it is silently agreed that the situation is not acceptable in these areas today – an assessment we share. The strategy warns of ambitious plans for cohesion and increasing the well-being of the entire population, modernising and improving the efficiency of health services, combating technological ‘resistance’ and cleaning up pollution problems. In sum, and towards a backdrop of the financial crisis, the strategy can thus be said to be quite ambitious. Nevertheless, it is interesting that Russian authorities so explicitly acknowledge that there is a link between human and state security. This is new, and there is some recognition in our own Russia policy, not least in regional cooperation in the north. The number of energy resources has raised the greatest international concern. The text mentions the Barents Sea and the Arctic as one of several regions with energy resources. However, the expressed Russian concern is mainly related to the situation in Iraq and Afghanistan and the conflicts in the Middle East, South Asia and Africa. Equally full, it says: ‘The competition for resources cannot exclude that problems that arise will be solved by military power – which will destroy the balance of power in the border areas of the Russian Federation and its allies.’ I do not interpret this text as if Russia saw military struggle for the resources in the Arctic as a likely scenario. It's hard to see which battle this was going to be. The demarcation of the northern regions appears to be a clear and transparent comparison with other and more worrying areas with petroleum deposits of concern. In some cases there are so-called overlapping requirements when drawing borders and clarifying the outer boundary of the continental shelf. But international law gives clear guidance on how to do this and how to solve it. Rather, there is reason to believe that Russian leaders look with significantly greater concern at the patchwork of potential instability along the long southern border of the Federation, or the soft abdomen, as was said in the Tsar era. We feel that Russia's interests in the north still require low voltage and that these interests are well served by the application of international law in the Arctic. Here's my experience that Norway and Russia are on their way a long way. This impression is also reflected in the recent speech of Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov in Washington, and it is evident from the Russian basic document for the Arctic which was published in April. And let me add: that's the pattern we see in every meeting we've had with the Russian authorities over the last four years. Russia, like Norway, has submitted its claim on the extent of the continental shelf in the Arctic. Negotiations on demarcation are demanding but take place in a good tone. Norwegian-Russian cooperation on e.g. fishing issues, marine resources and nuclear safety are also mainly characterised by active commitment and willingness to find mutually acceptable solutions. This was confirmed in the Prime Minister's talks with the Russian leadership last month. Lavrov highlights the spirit of cooperation and the successful cooperation in the Arctic Council. He has previously referred to Barents' cooperation as the most innovative regional cooperation in Europe. Following the ministerial meeting of the Arctic Council in April, I have heard him mention this Council's work on the same reading. In other words, in the north, in our neighbourhood, one of the most exciting and forward-looking regional cooperation – a responsibility and opportunity for Norway, and for Norway and Russia. The relationship with NATO, on the other hand, remains complicated for Russia. The strategy maintains that it is unacceptable in the plans to ‘bring the military infrastructure of the alliance to the borders of Russia’. Russia still sees NATO as an exclusive and partly hostile alliance. At the same time, it is important for us to oppose Russia's attempt to anchor concepts of exclusive interest with the rights it would entail. It is contrary to modern European and international principles for the right of States to choose their own membership. This has been clearly stated by Norway. At the same time, I think we have a job to do in terms of increasing trust between NATO and Russia. In Russia, as in us, old enemy images and spinal cord reflexes are difficult to get rid of. We're going to do it with a combination of firmness and commitment, and not least by clarifying the many areas where we and Russia share common interests. And there will be more of such areas, for example: in the case of terrorism and disarmament. A new message from Russia is that they find the European security structure deficient. Russian leadership has proposed a Euroatlantic Security Agreement to provide the basis for what they call an equivalent collateral community. They have also proposed a European security agreement and an alternative system for US planned missile defence in Poland and the Czech Republic, which is described in both the strategy and in Lavrov’s speech. We need to consider these proposals without drawing any conclusions in advance. However, we make it clear that Norway does not support proposals that weaken the cornerstones of today’s European security system. Lavrov says that the Russian proposals focus on ‘hard security’ and not on the ‘soft’ parts of today’s OSCE. For our part, we will highlight the historical importance of the fact that the OSCE is precisely combining respect for human rights and the security of states. We can't go on chords with this. Both the strategy and Lavrov’s address are four major areas for the proliferation of nuclear weapons, the lack of contract works regulating both strategic and conventional weapons, and the uncertain storage of weapons and dangerous materials. According to Lavrov, Russia and the United States, with the largest weapons arsenals in the world, have a special responsibility for disarmament. Here, Presidents Obama and Medvedev have started a new work that we need to support. Words must be translated into action. Russia must contribute to both putting in place the successor to the START Agreement and reducing the number of Russian tactical nuclear weapons in Europe. Russia therefore bears a considerable responsibility for facilitating the resumption of the negotiations on the Convention on Weapons in Europe – the CFE Agreement – after Moscow unilaterally suspended its participation in the agreement in December 2007. In sum, there is a lot of recognition in the strategic thoughts we hear from Moscow. At the same time, there is room for new messages and new analyses – many of them are consistent with analyses we make, while others are quite peculiar to Russia. That is why we need to focus on the context, and then the development of the entire Russian society is crucial – the fact that Russia is still in its transformation, its “transition”, that important values are not lost on the road, and that it does not define external enemies in order to remove attention from its own challenges. It is my opinion that the main concerns of Russian leadership are related to internal Russian relations: the conditions of social and political stability. It is my view that we have a good potential to further develop relations and cooperate with Russia in the north. This is in Norwegian interest and it is a Norwegian responsibility. But it goes on: More than us have an interest in the continued nourishment of the following concepts: «High North – Low Tension».
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e566	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for the answer. I want to say that I initially agree that the negotiations on the Arctic areas and the situation related to the borderline appear to be taking place in a good atmosphere, and that we do not need to fear developments based on what is happening in and what is said about the Arctic. On the other hand, the challenges lie in what is happening in Russian society, and not least in how much other cooperation is now being defined as part of the security issue. What may be seen as a news story in what is now said is a trace to the fact that much international and much industrial cooperation can be defined as a threat of war against Russia. What I see as one of the most worrying things about the new Russian security approach is that much of what was supposed to be interpersonal, interpersonal, and also business cooperation, to help Russia become, through the long period of communism, a more stable democratic society, in fact, a step backwards, by the fact that cooperation between people and the construction of economic cooperation is seen as a security threat. It also means that when looking at the initiatives taken on a new European security structure, one has to ask questions about whether there is a deliberate way of thinking when, of course, only focusing on the hard – that is, military – structures, and so little focus on what we might say was the most important, long-term security-building measure, namely human rights, democracy, openness and transparency – what is happening through the work of the OSCE and the participation of Russia in the Council of Europe. I would therefore like to hear the Foreign Minister's assessments of these matters. It is clear that many of those who today assess Russia are asking questions about what they are transforming into. Are they actually on the way to becoming a democracy, with more openness? Could they in any way form the basis for an economic and more normalized relationship with the world? Or are they on their way to becoming a nationalist state, with a high degree of monitoring, a low degree of democracy and with a high degree of uncertainty for all who want to cooperate with them? I have to say that the example that has come up around the British Council is an example of deterring many of us who are concerned about having a lot of bilateral cooperation with Russia, with organisations and forces that want a more democratic Russia, if all of this is defined as a security issue in Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e577	For my part, I insist on the image that we do not know where Russia lands after the transition they are through, and on society, which today must be called having characteristics of democratic structures, can still be called a democracy, with a well-functioning open market economy. I mean, there's uncertainty about that. The uncertainty is an uncertainty that Norway as a neighbour must take the most seriously. The representative points out that much is being brought forward internationally as a possible threat to Russia. These are not unknown tones from our own country, or from large countries we usually cooperate with. In its statement, the representative of Solberg said that Russia sometimes defines imports of important goods as a threat to Russia’s security. If we listen to the US argument about energy imports as a threat to US security, we see some of the picture of how these big states define imports as a possible threat. Norway, with its open economy, is used to developing a kind of understanding that such imports are positive, because they create interdependence. That's not necessarily how great powers look at it. I fully agree that cooperation between people, the human factor, and between civil societies is important. Once again, we're going to the North, because it's the carrybar of cooperation between these countries, which is of equal size. This has never had a prominent role in the way power and interests have been defined in Russia. We can't expect communism's decay to make it suddenly pass through with a very powerful force. But nevertheless, an important track we have to follow is to develop contacts between civil societies. It is quite right, as the representative says, that human rights, democracy and transparency, as we emphasise in the European institutions, we must continue to hold Russia responsible. That is why it is important that we hold them accountable in the Council of Europe, and – at my discretion – that, after meeting the criteria, they become members of the World Trade Organisation and the OECD. As Erna Solberg pointed out in his statement, Norway will meet this in two ways: bilaterally, as a neighbour — where we need to have a significant degree of firmness, predictability and willingness to participate in the North — and Norway as a NATO member. Here is Norway in the situation that as a neighbour we are in category with other countries that have a much more conflicty and dramatic neighbourly relationship with Russia than we have had, with occupation and – let's say – control from the dominant power, which we have escaped. There we have experience that is more similar to that of continental Europe. On the other hand, we, together with these neighbouring countries, are demanding that there should be no exclusive spheres of interest and that countries should choose their own safety affiliation. I believe Norway has a long experience in mastering this balance. I believe we are being listened to, and I feel an increased interest from our allies in discussing Russia with Norway. We're actually spending more time on that now than we were recently, and our professional environments, both on energy, society, politics, international politics, and not least the North, are being listened to because we have a unique experience in Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e588	I would first like to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant. Russian security and security policy signals from Moscow are important for the whole of Europe, in transatlantic cooperation and not least for NATO. On 9 November, 20 years have passed since the first East Germans hit their way through the Berlin wall. Today there are only memorials left that show us that there was actually a wall across the city. The new order of time – perhaps some would say disorder – starts this date. The Soviet Union collapsed as a short house, the Warsaw Pact was dissolved, new states arose, stiffened communist regimes were converted into democracies – albeit fragile democracies. The security policy structure in Europe has changed dramatically if we look at the map. NATO today has 28 member countries and has played a stabilising role in the new Eastern European states and in the Balkans, among others. through the Partnership for the Peace Programme. We have had new asymmetric threats, and the concept of security policy has been very extended, which I will also stress. Norway, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs has also said, has a good and pragmatic relationship with Russia, while we are firm, for example. addressing common challenges in the north, and we are served with both trust and cooperation between NATO and Russia. But, as the Foreign Minister also said, there is no doubt that Russia still perceives NATO as an exclusive and partly hostile alliance, and that they feel threatened by the ever closer movement of NATO's borders. The Interpellant addresses several Russian-side decisions and issues on security policy issues, including: the new security strategy adopted by the Russian National Security Council in May and Mr Lavrov’s speech in Washington on Russian-American relations. In addition, Russia has launched the idea of a new European security architecture. This was done just before Christmas by President Medvedev. The Russians are talking about a new pan-European security structure and propose that a larger meeting be held on the theme of the OSCE – the Organisation for Cooperation and Security in Europe. As far as I know, there should also be a Foreign Minister's meeting in the OSCE, where the Russian initiative will be discussed, among other things. I have experienced meetings with MEPs from Europe that the latest initiative by the Russian side is being looked at with interest. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that the various Russian proposals deserve to be discussed and evaluated, but of course without drawing any conclusions in advance. Then we'll see if any of the proposals are in our allies' interest, in our interest and in Russia's cohesive interest – that is, the opposite of an allies' relationship, as the interpellant said. Then I would like to add that a possible discussion of both a new European security architecture and a Euroatlantic security agreement can only take place through the establishment and incorporation of NATO cooperation. I think we have to make that quite categorical. But the same applies also to the Helsinki Agreement, and thus also to the OSCE, which must be a framework. It is not possible to establish a new European security architecture alongside what is currently the OSCE cooperation. In this context, it may be interesting to involve two new EU outputs, which are also part of a discussion on European security in the future. One is the proposal for a Black Sea Union, and the other is the EU's work on a so-called Eastern Partnership, which will include the six countries that lie between the EU and Russia. I want to stress that it applies to all six. It also includes Belarus, which means that this is a matter that we should be a little aware of when it comes to our policy vis-à-vis the same country. Otherwise, it is interesting – and also positive – that the new Russian security strategy of 13 May greatly expands the security concept. This underlined the Minister for Foreign Affairs, and he said that, among other things, covers alcoholism, demography, terrorism, etc. In the end, one of the most important things that in the future should become a theme of Euroatlantic security policy and American-Russian relations is disarmament and non-proliferation of nuclear weapons. Today, the United States and Russia have 95 pst. of all nuclear weapons. It's a commitment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e614	I would also like to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant and a debate that highlights one of the main challenges for Norwegian foreign policy. It's really independent of whether developments in Russia are going well, as we all hope, or whether they are going in a different direction. Russia is a neighbour, and that requires our commitment. First a few reflections. I was in Dublin at a parliamentary conference on the financial crisis last week, and – a little in relation to the foreign minister also mentioned – a parliamentarian from Latvia came to me and asked what was our experience with Russia in the north. It was based on the fact that Norway had a somewhat different attitude towards Russia than that of Russia, for example. has a completely different history in the Baltic region, to which the Minister of Foreign Affairs also referred. But it was interesting to sit down and discuss common experiences with Russia and not least how to move forward towards Russia. Another experience, which may be less important, was how Sweden used several times to criticise both Norway and Russia, collectively, for the lack of ratification of the energy charter. But there is a problem that the Foreign Minister is probably well aware of, and that we face in many contexts. Now it is not clear that the security strategy adopted in Russia in May is a victory for the hawks in Russia. If you take the time to study the draft strategy underlying the process, the negative references and the negative use of words against the United States and NATO were much stronger. This became very much down in the final document. Direct references to the United States are hardly mentioned, and the criticisms made by the West in connection with the Georgia conflict are absent from the document. This can be interpreted in many directions. What is certain is that in Russia too there is an internal battle on these issues. The document is relatively woolly, does not say very much concretely, and can thus be used by most people. The important thing for Norway, as others have also pointed out, is that we are long-term and predictable. I also believe that patience in relations with Russia is important. I think it's important that we look a little bit at all the intervention in relation to Russia – now I'm thinking not least about business, education, people working with people. Much has been done in relation to the Barents region and Barents – this government and other governments should have credit for it – and it has been largely supported by a total increase. But when the North travels most to the Gardermo to get on a plane, the journey goes, at least in Europe, southwards or westwards. Much less, in educational and other contexts, it goes east, and it's perhaps a national challenge that we have to face. We need more people who speak Russian, we need more people who understand Russia, we need more people who have contacts in Russia, and maybe we need to discuss how we can encourage it, how we can get it done. There's something happening at some specific level, and there's a lot of colleges, I know, and even high school, that have done a good job, but I think it can do a lot more. Because I think we can agree that dealing with Russia, whether the Russians are like this or not, there's something we're going to do for hundreds of years to come, and then having a deep Russia knowledge maybe is one of the better investments we can make. So I think we're going to agree that we're going to cultivate the neighborhood, we're going to take care of the firmness that Norway shows, we're going to be clear. We will have an important debate on Norwegian foreign policy in Stortinget later in June, where we will talk a little more about Norwegian strategies, Norwegian interests and how Norway will engage. I will not ignore the fact that Russia too will be mentioned in this context, and will be an important arrow and important interest in relation to what is one of the main priorities for Norway in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e631	I would also like to thank the interpellant, Erna Solberg, for raising an important theme. The interpellation provides a good opportunity to discuss developments in relations between Russia and the West more generally and Norway's relationship with our eastern neighbour in particular. On the part of the Christian People's Party, we will also be able to give our support to the main lines of foreign minister Jonas Gahr Støre's reply. I also don't think we should read the new security strategy in isolation, but analyse it as a whole, and we have to see it as part of a historical context, so that we understand how Russia perceives its situation, and the challenges that this nation is facing. If we choose such an approach, we will see that security thinking in Russia has many similarities with security policy thinking in our part of the world, and that in each way they reflect a response to changing framework conditions and challenges. An important aspect of the security strategy is its emphasis on ensuring the well-being of the Russian people and the economic development of the nation. To estimate Russia’s security, use is made of a list of indicators covering the level of unemployment, inflation, disparities in the distribution of income, government debt and other conditions. The competition for natural resources is therefore assumed to be exacerbated, as the benefits of globalisation are unfairly distributed among the world’s nations. This socio-economic approach is important in order to understand why Russia considers it politically important to safeguard what they consider to be its legal interests, such as: their share of the natural resources located in close border areas. So where do they see from the Russian side part of these likely voltage ranges? Of course, such a key region will be the energy-rich Middle East region. The political and military activities of the United States that are interpreted in such a context. Other important regions are the Arctic and the Barents region, where global warming can gradually make large natural resources more accessible. Both the United States, Norway, Canada and Denmark are seen as challenging Russia’s demands for part of the Arctic base, an area of the size of Western Europe. An experienced foreign commentator in The Times reported on 14 May that Russia’s foreign minister Sergei Lavrov has also criticised Norway as a member of the NATO military exercise based on a possible conflict of access to resources in the north. Norway, for its part, has replied that Russia has expanded its military presence in the region. Another area will be the Caspian Sea, which the European Union sees as important, and where Russia negotiates with countries such as Kazakhstan, Azerbaijan, Turkmenistan and Iran on the sharing of the seabed and energy resources in this region. In Central Asia, Russia sees China as a challenger in its views of influence. In addition, Russian leaders from Russia’s strategic security interests have condemned the US plans to build a rocket shield in Eastern Europe and have criticized NATO’s expansion into former Soviet republics such as Ukraine and Georgia. When the new Russian security strategy also contains some crunchy, critical outcomes against other countries, which are in practice particularly the United States, and then their allies, we need to understand that on the basis of the background I have mentioned. The Security Strategy suggests that Russia should have its nuclear forces on standby, but continue with its military reforms and reduce the number of Russian troops. The remaining forces, on the other hand, shall be made more mobile and usable as a tool for resolving regional conflicts. With regard to the latest development, many in this room have noted that a similar conversion has been carried out in recent years for the military forces in many NATO countries, our own including. It is clearly both language use and analysis in the Russian security strategy that we can, on our side, with good reason, downgrade. We do well to analyse the Russian thinking behind, and the answers required of us. Russian power thinking is obvious. They see themselves as a great power, and then think and act. But it is also worth noting that Russia is clearly saying that its relationship with the United States will be important for the world situation. Russia proposes to build a strategic partnership based on common interests. Therefore, from the Christian People's Party, we will support a sober and realistic attitude, with the emphasis on being prepared for different development scenarios, but at the same time actively helping to exploit the positive cooperation opportunities that actually exist, and as the new US President Obama has so strongly expressed in his recent games of mutual disarmament and a better climate of cooperation between East and West. We also need to actively support this from the Norwegian side.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e646	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for raising a very important topic. For the Left, there is a question of how alarming it is to interpret Russia's new security strategy. Compared to previous drafts, the wording is relatively vague. The most anti-Western rhetoric seems to have been downplayed, which may be due to the presidential change in the United States and to the fact that the Georgia war has gone a little far. Some have highlighted the wording: "In a competition for resources it cannot be ruled out that military force could be used to resolve emerging problems that would destroy the balance of forces near the borders of Russia and here allies." In isolation, this wording can be interpreted as a signal of a tougher line in the Arctic. Furthermore, in the new Russian Arctic strategy, which was presented earlier in the spring, the following sentence is to be found: «Russia intentions to establish a separate military force to enhance security in the Russian part of the Arctic Ocean.» This is a significantly more concrete wording, as it does not just refer to possible future problems along Russia's borders. It aims to build a separate military unit to strengthen Russia's security in the Arctic. However, plans to build such a unit have subsequently been cancelled by several teams, most recently by Minister of Foreign Affairs Lavrov at the Arctic Council in April. There appears thus to be no concrete Russian plans to build new military departments in the Arctic. The Russians, on the other hand, are in the process of modernising and strengthening the units already in place in the region, including the border guard. However, this modernisation work starts from a low level. I believe that we should take all the signals about a stronger policy from Russia in the most serious way. However, I do not see any signs of immediate new dangers for Norway in Russia's Arctic strategy and security strategy. The rhetoric of these wars is likely to be used to manifest Russia as a significant factor in power, and to signal the will and ability to be present and to uphold sovereignty in the Arctic. It is worth mentioning that Norway and Russia have a good neighbourly relationship. It also underlines Russian governance, which presents this neighbourhood as a good example for others. Furthermore, there is little evidence that Russia will acquire areas and natural resources in the Arctic with military power. Indeed, all interested parties have agreed that the distribution of the northern regions should be determined in an orderly manner under the auspices of the United Nations. In addition, Russia will need technological assistance from the outside to obtain many of the natural resources it has in the Arctic. Finally, I would like to refer to a report presented by the Western European Union in November 2008, where Odd Einar Dørum was the initiator and co-rapporteur. The report is entitled ‘The Northern dimension of Europe’ and points out, inter alia: that none of the existing institutions in the Arctic have been able to address security aspects. Few of them will be suitable as a forum to discuss security issues in the future. Faced with a stronger Russian self-reliance in the Arctic, it should not be allowed to build up a legal or institutional vacuum in the region. We should therefore reassert and strengthen the Treaty of the Law of the Sea as a legal framework for the Arctic. An important step will be to get the United States to ratify the Treaty, and we hope that the Obama administration will be able to deliver. On the institutional side, the Arctic Council and the Northern Dimension are important forums. The EU wants a stronger role in the Arctic, but has a weak starting point as neither Sweden nor Finland borders sea areas in the north. And then you voted 75 pst. by the Greenlanders last year for self-government and liberation from Denmark. Russia is playing on this by defining the EU out of the Arctic. I believe Norway needs the EU as a partner in the Arctic. Norway should therefore present itself as an attractive Arctic partner for the EU and work towards EU observer status in the Arctic Council. Many suggest that the northern dimension, where Russia and Norway are included as equivalent partners with EU countries, can be an important part of the cooperation architecture. It may help to bind Russia up in mutually committed cooperation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e686	In my years at Stortinget I have been so lucky to visit Russia ten to twelve times. I can say that the impression from those tours has varied a lot from time to time. In fact, along with the Energy and Environment Committee, I was in Russia that day the ruble collapsed. In fact, the committee's members didn't get their bills made up for that reason. This led to Russia getting close with the hat at hand to ask for large transfers, and got big transfers, from the West, to get back on track. But I have also been in Russia when the oil price was at the top, and we saw a Russian administration that was struggling with self-confidence. As I said, the impressions have varied, but I still feel that there is an underlying red thread, that the cooperation between Norway and Russia has become ever closer and better. Of course, it's not without contradictions, and one has a different view of things, but nevertheless, where cooperation is concrete and targeted, there is also a constructive willingness to find solutions. The Foreign Affairs Committee visited Russia in March this year, and both the discussions we had with our colleagues in Dumaen, and the talks in the U.D., confirmed this impression, that the relationship between our two countries is hardly better than today. I think that this should also be the basis for this debate. That, of course, does not mean that there are no developments in Russia that concern us. In particular, this is linked to democracy, to freedom of speech and organisation. But there is also great cause for concern when it comes to Russian nationalism. It becomes active on the street level, where people with different appearances are exposed to regular racism. Personally, I think this development is also a result of the leaders' rhetoric, where they highlight Russia. Another area of concern is the law and framework conditions for foreign investment. If you don't get a fix here, I think it'll lead to foreign companies retreating, which in turn will make a natural integration of Russian society into the international world more difficult. I also mean that part of the rhetoric we see from the Russian side, and the role Russia plays in some international contexts, is alarming. The form of reaction in the conflict with Georgia was out of proportion. In general, we sometimes experience very negative Russian rhetoric. This makes international processes more difficult. Still, I think it's important to establish that there's nothing to suggest that we're on our way into a new cold war. Even though the last few years have been more focused on military purposes and a certain increase in military activity, there is also no evidence that we are about to have a new arms race. For example, comparing me. Russian investment in military purposes with their United States, we see that they are becoming very small. Of course, it is important to follow closely what is happening in Russia. That is why this interpellation is useful, and I also feel that it has been a very balanced debate so far today. It's important that, even if we have some areas we're concerned about, we don't want to create enemy images for which there's no basis. I believe that the best medicine against a new division of Europe is joint institutions, there are cooperation, meeting places, dispute settlements and integration and commitment. We need to use and complete the pan-European institutions that exist, make them relevant, fill them with content and make them a useful place to participate. NATO's extension has been perceived negatively by the Russian community and, not least in the internal debate, has been produced as NATO moving closer. I agree with all those who have said today that each country has to settle for its own part where it will listen to security policy, and of course Russia will not be able to veto NATO. Nevertheless, I consider it important to state that the NATO–Russia Council must be given priority, this should be relevant and work. If the Council is to promote cooperation and trust, as the plan has, it must also be filled with content. There should be, not a confrontational body, but a place where one also listens to the Russian viewpoint. I believe, as I said, that the best way to meet these challenges is still extensive cooperation with Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e703	Often, the debate on developments in Russia is marked by a slightly different starting point, by what you want to see, or by what you want to fear to happen. I think it's important not to be blind, or to interpret, but to have an open discussion about how to read different developments. The big question is, what is Russia in transition to? Are they on their way from communism to democracy, to more openness, to a more western-like society, or are they on their way to, as some fear, a more nationalist society? With regard to the developments we see in many areas within Russia, I have no doubt that much of Russian security policy is about what they define as internal relations. This concerns the fear of internal fragmentation, regionalisation. It's about keeping territorial control as an important part, I think, of today's leadership, and also of the somewhat nationalistic self-reliance idea that is the background for today's leadership to actually be in the leadership of Russia. But it also stands in stark contrast to our way of thinking. We have developed a multilateral picture of the world in recent years. But I think it's a bunch of politics in Norway that we see that the world has different areas of power, different eras, different places, different points of gravity, and we have to find an international community about it. It still seems as if Russia is also influenced by the way in which it is difficult to get out of the past, a great deal of thinking, where it is difficult to take the perspective that the balance of power in the world is changing in many areas. That is when it comes to how we think about Russia, and that is why we need an ongoing discussion about it. Marit Nybakk addressed an important topic, namely the initiative on the new European safety structure. I think we need a good debate about whether we want to open up a new discussion about it. A new safety structure can help paralyze the safety structures we have today. It can help us to move away from already won wins internationally for human rights, for democracy, for the soft parts of the security perspective, but it can also give us something new. My fear is that in today's situation, work around a new European security structure may contribute to the weakening of areas we have seen in the past. Then I would like to reiterate my concern that the new security structure mentions a lot of negative thoughts about foreign ownership and the participation of non-residents. Yes, you know it from other countries, but that's not good in those countries either. For those of us who want commitment, cooperation, and who have large state-controlled business interests in Russia, this should be a concern. I'm also a little worried that we don't have a better strategy for how we're going to deal with it. There was no reply from the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e717	I believe, like others, that this has been a good and important debate. It's important that we have it from time to time. It has informed and informed, and I think we're going to be strengthened by having this common review. As the representative of Höglund said, we will probably have an opportunity to talk about this in a broader perspective of interest later this month. It is interesting in all discussions about Russia that we are drifting between what we see and what we want to see. It's a good term that Erna Solberg uses, or as Peter Normann Waage says in his writings, "Russia is a different place." So it doesn't fit into an obvious category of how to understand social development and the forces that form it. We're left to the fact that we have to understand what's happening, and that I weighed in my post: we have to understand the context. It is clear that Latvia has a different context, as the representative, Højlund, when they understand their neighbour relationship. The unique thing about NATO is that there we meet and mix these contexts into something that becomes the alliance's attitude. I think it is a challenge for NATO with 28 members to cope with the ongoing, careful, close dialogue that is needed to shape that consensus, and that we do not get a split by the fact that the big ones in NATO and the small ones in NATO are going a little bit apart. But there is also another debate. The representative Larsen highlighted something very important, namely how the international system in the Arctic is developing. There I think a lot has happened in recent years. It's important, as she says, that we get a firm confirmation of the position of the law of the sea, that the United States comes with, that the continental shelf is documented, that overlapping demands are solved through the recipe of international law. We now have a vital Arctic Council, we have a vital barn regional cooperation, and we have the Baltic Sea Council, which meets on Thursday, where I get a new opportunity to meet my Russian colleague for bilateral talks. We have the so-called Ilulissat opinion on the declared respect of the Arctic Ocean Law by the coastal states, and in all modesty we have the Northern Territory Strategy for Norway, which creates links with Russia, long-term cooperation and more active international diplomacy. I agree with Mr Larsen that it is in the Norwegian interest that European countries be involved in this cooperation and that the European Commission joins the Arctic Council as an observer. We have served the Arctic Council as the body for debate on Arctic matters. As far as the OSCE is concerned, I agree with those who have spoken here, that it is important to use that organisation to further develop the security concept, not to reject Russian thoughts about it. Foreign Minister Lavrov was very clear that Russia does not find today’s structure satisfactory for Russian interests. Russia feels excluded. But this cannot lead to Norway giving on the boat what is essential for our safety affiliation: NATO membership, on which the representative Nybakk was in, and the value base, the soft security of the OSCE, which the representative Solberg had in his post, an innovation since the 1970s that we have to ring. It will also be our position on Corfu at the end of the month, when there will be an informal ministerial meeting on this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e728	The debate on substance is closed. So 11 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e744	It was a comprehensive text in the interpellation, so I almost had to breathe as I heard the president read it. But there are also many aspects of the situation in Burma that call for attention. The first in the row right now is, of course, the ongoing trial against Aung San Suu Kyi, which is suspended approx. a week for different reasons. It shows how this regime uses all the possibilities to prevent those who are democratically elected leaders, to carry out the missions that Burmese people have actually given them, and how it once again shows its true face. One of the reasons for the interpellation is that, after Solheim State Council's visit to Burma, and also through a chronicle of the Council of State, there has been a devastating change in Norwegian Burma policy. After many years of international sanctions, which we can safely say have not worked as those who started the sanctions, it is reasonable to ask such a question. At the same time, we know that the reason why the sanctions have not worked has a lot to do with how central neighbouring countries have behaved, not least China, but also India, Russia and Thailand. Their actions towards Burma, namely that these are internal relations, have not contributed to the fact that the pressure needed against such a regime has been able to function as it should have been. In addition, when the same countries deal with Burma as never before, the same economic incentives for change in the regime do not lie either. If it were to be the case that Norwegian foreign policy is facing a change in relations with Burma, there is also an important theme in this room. After – and it must be said – State Council Solheim brought this chronicle, and after he had met in Burma, things have happened in Burma, among others. This Kafka process that we are now witnessing against Aung San Suu Kyi. And there's also something that I see as a small point of light, that China seems to be on gli, from just looking at Burma's situation as an inner issue to seeing that it also has aspects beyond it. If it is a country that has influence, it is China. At least from the Christian People's Party, we hope that if there is any change in Norwegian Burma policy, it will in case be based on some criteria that are absolutely fundamental to any change – and it must not happen as a kind of Norwegian alone. So the international community's policy towards the military dictatorship has not produced results, and there is, of course, a division between the sanctions of the West and Asia's so-called constructive engagement policy which may be a cause. That, I would say, gives reason to think through the use of the instrument also from the Norwegian side. But, as I said, we believe that there should be coordination between the main actors, and they are: the United Nations, the United States, the EU, China, India and ASEAN. These are the important actors. We have also seen that the United States has announced possible changes in its policy towards Burma, and it would be interesting if the Minister for Foreign Affairs has further comments on this – to what extent it can be expected in the future from the new American administration – because it is of great importance. Now, Norway has a place in the UN Human Rights Council, and I would also like to take the opportunity to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs how Norway can contribute to what we all have as a goal: a change in Burma through the work that Norway is doing within the Human Rights Council – within the framework that the Council is working on. The situation in Burma – and here I have to disagree with Erik Solheim – does not seem to be any better than what it has been before. It might seem that there was a certain opening for the international community after the Nargis cyclone. But if it was an opening, it is in case tightened to again, which was fully indicated by General Than Shwe's speech on March 29. There was no question of meeting any demands from either the opposition on the part of Burma or the international community. At least there must be some criteria that need to be in place to talk about real dialogue. It must be that political prisoners can be released, and that a tripartite dialogue is actually initiated in Burma – with the opposition and with the ethnic groups. What are we doing, and what can we do for other important countries like China, India and Russia to become more active in the situation in Burma – perhaps a key to change? And what do we do to examine the very serious claims, not least from Amnesty International about possible violations of fundamental human rights, not least in the eastern part of Burma? And we're not talking about a regime with silk gloves. We're talking about a regime that recruits nine-year-olds into the army – child soldiers. We're talking about a regime that uses rape as a weapon. We're talking about a regime that burns down villages and expels the inhabitants. Few countries have as many internal refugees as Burma – those who do not then have the power to cross borders. Because Norway is the country where the peace prize was awarded to Aung San Suu Kyi a few years ago, we have a special obligation, I believe, to follow up the situation in this country and for this people. It is not my intention to introduce some party politics into this, but to look at how Norway as a country and we can achieve something together, so that the situation changes in a country that really deserves change. That's the starting point for this interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e778	Thanks to the interpellant Syversen, who takes up Burma, a country and people whose situation should occupy us – and who are to occupy us – because as a fellow human being, we have a responsibility to engage when there is oppression and violation of universal human rights. We also had a review of the situation in Burma in the light of the interpellation of the representative of the Trettebergstuen in November 2007. Regrettably, the timing of this interpellation has become even more timely since recent events in court, which are likely to take place on Friday, against Aung San Suu Kyi. It is an unclear picture that takes account of the junta's motives for promoting these absurd accusations against the Nobel Prize winner and the leader of the democratic opposition and, let us not forget, the political leader who won the last free elections too many years ago. Likewise unclear is what the consequences will be. Fortunately, it seems that, after the arrest, we now have a more unison response from the international community than before. From the Norwegian side, we expressed our concern in a press release of 14 May this year, where we demanded the release of Aung San Suu Kyi and all other political prisoners. Afterwards, a wide range of countries, as well as key regional actors such as ASEAN and some countries in the region, have taken a tougher tone against the regime than before, which has provoked anger in the regime’s opinions. Many suggest that precisely this global international response may have led the junta on a couple of occasions to give diplomats and journalists access to the trial, as well as to reducing the time spent on something that first turned out to be a long trial. Aung San Suu Kyi is one of the strongest symbols of today's struggle for human dignity, human rights and democracy. She's been in house arrest for 13 of the last 19 years. 19 years after her party won the election, this party, the National League for Democracy – NLD – is still the wing clipping and kept out of control. Burma has more than 2 000 political prisoners — probably more — and the social and humanitarian situation in the country continues to deteriorate. The charges against Aung San Suu Kyi came as famous as a result of an American intruder swimming over the lake in front of her house, before he got in and stayed there for two days. This seems to have given SPDC, which is the official name of the military regime, just the excuse they needed to keep her beyond the time when the house arrest was supposed to expire, which was Wednesday last week. The Junta also seems to want to use this as a legal opportunity to omit her from the next election that is part of the junta's so-called road map to democracy. Suu Kyi was also excluded from the 1990 elections because of his marriage to British academic Michael Aris. Since his death in 1999, this law would not prevent her from attending now, but Burmese legislation could prevent her from attending if at the time of the elections she was under the 'custodial sentiment'. In many ways, then, the political situation today is quite parallel to what it was in the 1990 elections. The main political opposition leaders are now imprisoned, like what they were at the time, and it is obvious that the admission to the elections is neither inclusive, free or democratic. Nothing suggests that the 2010 elections themselves will improve. In 1990 it seemed that the voices were actually spoken up in a convincing way, and the result, which gave an overwhelming victory to the Aung San Suu Kyi party NLD, is still the last credible example of what the Burmese themselves want for the future of their country. The situation in Burma has given very few opportunities to influence since the first military coup in 1962, as shown in the last 40 years. Developments also show that all the international instruments that have been used up to now have failed – whether sanctions or involvement. One reason is that the instruments have not been used by all. They have thus appeared to be deficient, and there have been sufficient open channels for the regime, not least to the major neighbours of China and India, both in terms of trade and political contact. The aim of our Burma policy must be change – peaceful and as quickly as possible. Norway alone has limited influence on this regime, and so is most other Western countries, although they should be able to act quite collectively. There is a need for a common international position on Burma. That is why we coordinate our policies, among other things. with the EU and its common position, and we are in close dialogue with ASEAN countries and other key actors on this issue. The objective is an overall approach that can lead to real change and an improvement in the situation of the Burmese people. Norway is part of the UN Group of Friends of the Secretary-General's Special Mission to Burma, Ibrahim Gambari, and it is in such forums that we can help to influence. It is the role and mandate of the United Nations that must be strengthened if we are to be able to influence the junta, and Norway has a role to play here. Leaders must understand that the democratic path opens up the necessary economic development of Burma and thereby the resolution of the tensions and conflicts that lie latent in Burmese society. In many ways, the situation in this society is to be seen as a post-conflict situation — i.e. that the current image of the rulers is that only powerful concentration of power and the will to use power is the way to go in order to prevent division and conflict and even struggle between peoples. It is such a forward-looking country’s neighbours also fear, as many other countries in Asia are critically guarding against instability. But the use of power in itself is probably self-enhancing for these tensions. Only a real reconciliation process — actively supported by Burma’s many friends around the world — can lead this society on a safer path. It's such a development we have to speed up. It's in this light that we also have to have an honest discussion about whether the penalty line really gives the results we want. The interpellant contributes to this. The government will make its assessments in close dialogue with the bodies of the Storting, and, as the interpellant is also concerned about, with the new US administration. We can discuss this later in the debate. Interpellanten focuses on the situation in East Burma. Yes, it's serious, but I'll warn you against thinking that it's just where there's big challenges this is in the country. The problems of Burma are politically very complex. It is one of the world's most ethnically diversified countries, and the humanitarian needs and challenges are enormous and serious all over the country. We must therefore – as I said – focus on the overall issues and causes of the conflicts and consequences. We are working to secure a so-called humanitarian space, not only in conflict areas in Karen and the Kachin state in the east, but for example. also in the Northern Rakhine state of the West, where the rhingyaminority lives in an unfathomable humanitarian situation. Our ground partners in Burma are engaged in ongoing negotiations, supported by donors, including Norway, to expand this humanitarian space. However, the humanitarian situation of the civilian population in conflict areas in eastern Bruma is very serious. Once again, we see this: in long-standing internal conflicts with many parties, the most suffering is always the civilian population. Both the authorities and armed groups commit violations against civilians. However, the main weight of this responsibility must be placed with the SPDC. To achieve peace and democracy, we must engage all actors – Burmese, ethnic groups, armed groups and the military. Norway is concerned with the situation of all Burmese people, and we support projects and partners in order to reach out with assistance in the most appropriate way, both within the country, across the border from Thailand and to Burmese refugees in Thailand. Both the authorities and other parties to the conflict must respect international humanitarian law. In order for any international investigation commission to investigate the charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity in Burma to have the necessary legitimacy and permeability, it is necessary, in the view of the Government, that this should be reduced by the UN Security Council. However, political realities suggest that it is very unlikely that the Security Council will agree to establish such a Commission, unfortunately. Burma is also not a State party to the International Criminal Court (ICC), and the Court has therefore no jurisdiction over crimes committed by the regime on Burmese territory. If the situation in Burma is to be dealt with by the ICC, it requires either the acceptance of Burma or the referral of the situation by the Security Council to the Court of Justice. I am afraid that the requirements of the investigation commission can easily be a blow in the air. We must recognise – and this is alarming – that here, as in Sri Lanka, and after the war in Gaza, it is difficult to bring about a global international process that can ensure that international humanitarian law violations – in the Geneva Conventions – are held responsible. We need to keep an eye on the fact that Burmese authorities are responsible for protecting their people from abuse, and we need to demand that those who commit abuse be held responsible. We do this by addressing the human rights situation in Burma in different forums and with Burmese authorities, but also by supporting organisations inside and outside Burma that are working for an improved human rights situation across the country. With regard to our participation in the Human Rights Council, we have to do this through the periodic focus that has to be only on Burma – then Burma is in focus. Perhaps as important as that, our focus is on fundamental issues that the Council should address in respect of human rights in general in the world. We shall also contribute to health, education, food security and capacity building and support policy prisoners. Norwegian humanitarian aid for Burma in 2008 amounted to 170 million. kr. Our strong humanitarian efforts will continue to be a main focus of Norwegian policy towards the country. The fact that we have serious issues in relation to the legitimacy and practice of the regime should not prevent us from working to ensure that humanitarian aid comes to those who need it the most. As I said, we are now going to work in the Human Rights Council. In the next three years, we will participate in the Council's work by taking our share of responsibility and working purposefully to promote human rights globally, including in the case of Burma. We will be clear that human rights violations are not acceptable, we will insist that political prisoners must be released, and that the regime must enter into a real dialogue with the democratic forces and the ethnic leaders of Burma. We will continue to clarify this in our discussions with the Burmese authorities, with the neighbouring country of Burma and in the UN context. Our human rights policy towards Burma will be an important contribution to the set of instruments that constitute Norwegian Burma policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e845	I agree with the Foreign Minister that after the last trial against Aung San Suu Kyi, a more unison condemnation of the regime has been seen. Not least, several Asian countries and parliamentarians have lifted their heads – to put it that way – and contributed to the regime’s feeling that someone is moving closer to them in a way that has made them black quite aggressively back. This may indicate that the communications have also been made to the generals. I think the Foreign Minister will hit the nail on his head when it comes to sanctions policy. Why doesn't it work? Indeed, it is precisely because the instruments are not used by all, not by the neighbouring countries, who have not wanted to use these instruments at all — and perhaps will not. Coordination of policies may be the most important way of contributing to pressure against the regime, which can produce results in the long term. In the foreign minister’s reply, there is – and I am pleased – a clear message that Norwegian Burma policy is not changing without it being in consultation with those with whom we have been associated so far in terms of sanctions policy. That the EU was specifically mentioned, I take as a sign in this way. One should not focus solely on the situation in East Burma – there is reason to focus on the situation in many areas of Burma. But in the case of the human rights situation, at least the situation east of Burma is so serious that it really calls on our conscience to tell us what is going on. It's only been four or five days since a group of highly respected Harvard Law School lawyers published a report on the situation — a report that concludes that there are so serious violations of most human rights that it can be characterised as gross violations of humanity. I am pleased with the approach outlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs in his reply, and since he also invited the Stortinget, it is clear that the Stortinget is interested in such a dialogue. We would also like to hear about the US's new administration's approach to the problem, which the Minister for Foreign Affairs was talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e858	The point of my speech was that Norway alone cannot change the international pressure on Burma. The debate that Hillary Clinton has opened up is interesting. We also see that the Americans are now changing their attitudes to other countries – as they have defined in the past – among others. through a cautious resumption in relation to Cuba, which is intended to increase influence, and also the reflection now of the relationship with Burma. We have to go into this discussion. That's why I don't want to conclude here and now about how to do this. What would be very negative was if you were to sort of stretch your arms in the weather and say that it is not useful with financial measures against this regime – we are normalizing, and everything is the same as before. It is not possible to think that everything is the same – with a regime that acts in this way, human rights thus violates international standards and principles. As I said in my speech – and that is my understanding after meeting a number of representatives who know Burma from the inside and outside – you have to intervene with the regime and the social movements in Burma, so that they see the international community's willingness to support this society if they choose reconciliation, which is the only way out of the very many tensions in the country. Sometimes outside Burma, we might underestimate the tensions that actually exist in this society. Someone's got to get hold of them. Of course, there are many examples from other international situations that can show the different groups in the country that everyone can have something to draw from such an exposure line. So it's not a simple answer, that you go away from sanctions and normalize connections, but it's about finding the right combination of measures and opportunities to move forward. Interestingly, neighbouring countries reacted as they did after this arrest — Thailand, among other things, which has been very clear in its language, as well as China. This led to the violent use of language by Burmese representatives at the last ASEAN meeting, where they almost accused neighbours of breaking the principle of non-interference, which the Asians normally place great emphasis on. These are interesting and promising developments. We have to have an engaged discussion in Burma gassed Norwegian opinion and between government and big business. I think Norway — The government at least sees it this way — from these environments both support and encourage active involvement in the development of Burma. That's the way it's going to be. Finally, let me mention that the Secretary-General of the United Nations must play an important role here. We need to anchor the principles of the UN, hopefully in the Security Council, but there, as I said, I have limited faith that we can get the impact we need not least to place people in charge.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e873	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising a most topical theme – unfortunately. The back of the interpellation is gloomy, with imprisonment and lawsuit against Aung San Suu Kyi. The Peace Prize winner, as underlined by the Minister for Foreign Affairs, has held 13 of the last 19 years of house arrest in a country with one of the world's most brutal regimes, where there are now more than 2,100 political prisoners. We also have the flood disaster in fresh memory, as the military junta did not let in relief organisations. Much more inhumane it can hardly be. The military junta, or the Peace and Development Council, as they paradoxically call themselves, has been sitting by the power since the coup in 1962 – it is a long time. The country has Asia's largest military forces, after China and India, and extensive use of child soldiers, as also the interpellant mentioned. Juntaen has kept Burma totally isolated from the world community, which has resulted in the country going from being one of Asia's richest countries to becoming one of the world's poorest countries. Before the coup, Burma had a high standard of living and a well-trained population. Today, only the junta and their families enjoy well-being, rights and freedom – even with their own schools and hospitals. They live in closed, small communities with subsidised, luxurious dwellings. We see forced labour, ethnic cleansing and the movement of large groups of people. It's true that it's a poor society. There are a lot of ethnic groups, which of course also complicates the image of Burma. Different parts of the country have different populations. There is also armed rebellion in parts of the country. But this regime can go forward without interference, because other Asian countries are probably interested in dealing with Burma. Moreover, China is an important ally, with great interests in the country. Among other things, China, as we know, is interested in Burma's gas resources. Unfortunately, the world community has been too passive for a long time in Burma's atrocities and oppression. History also shows – unfortunately – great unhappiness, not only to Burma, but to regimes that have attacked their own people, driven by ethnic cleansing, or held the people in an iron grip. The UN adopted in 2005 ‘Responsibility to Protect’, which states that all States have an obligation to protect their own citizens from abuse. When it is not done, it says so, the international community shall assist or assume responsibility. It is important that we cooperate with different actors, different countries and the United Nations system and discuss what kind of instruments can change the Burma regime. Because – it is quite right as it is said here – they are not changing the way the world society behaves today, or with the policies that are being pursued today. The UN today has a special mission to Burma, Ibrahim Gambari, with which Norway cooperates closely. It is, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs stresses, the role and mandate of the United Nations that must be strengthened if the junta is to be affected. But how do you do that, with the Security Council we have today? We must engage all actors, also in order to ensure the security of the civilian population in those areas of the country where there is armed conflict, especially in eastern Burma. But again, Burmese authorities are responsible for protecting their citizens from abuse. I would also like to refer to what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. Norway is currently doing a great deal in cooperation with other actors in the international community to put pressure on the regime in Burma, which Norway, of course, must continue to do. China and India must also be required to use their influence. Norway may cooperate with other countries, inter alia: with the U.S. administration, if that's the case. But it's important to involve China. They're in the Security Council. As the interpellant said, maybe China is drifting in what they have so far claimed that what is happening in Burma is an inner issue. When it comes to extracting gas from Burma, they may see a more stable and democratic Burma as a more important partner than today's junta. Finally, it is interesting that the neighbouring country is now beginning to react after the treatment of Aung San Suu Kyi.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e896	I will first give tribute to the representative Syversen who puts the spotlight on the very serious human rights situation in Burma. Many claim that the situation both for the general population, for internally displaced persons and for opposition workers has gone from bad to worse. The situation of the opposition leader, Aung San Suu Kyi, has been considerably exacerbated since she is now accused of violating the rules for the house arrest she held. In the father of a trial that is now in progress, the accusations are justified by the fact that American John Yettaw visited the house where she was held under house arrest. The so - called violation of the rules may result in her being sentenced to five years in prison. The house arrest she had was supposed to have ended these days, but the authorities of Rangoon have now received a new deposit to keep her in custody until the so-called trial has ended. The reactions of the international community have not been delayed this time. The U.S. President, Obama, has clearly criticized the regime in Rangoon and demanded the release of the opposition leader. The UN Secretary-General has also expressed deep concern about her situation and is now planning a quick visit to Burma to ask for her immediate release. The Burmese military junta answers the reaction by claiming that the pressure around Aung San Suu Kyi is a plot against the country staged to sword the Burmese authorities. The country's foreign minister recently stated that the incident where the American entered the opposition leader's house was arranged to intensify the international pressure against Burma from internal and external anti-government elements. Many in the international community fear – like her party traps in the National League for Democracy – that the event is now being used as a pretext to keep her locked up over the promised election next year. Just before the weekend, we were told that the trial against the opposition leader was postponed for a week, and on Sunday there was news that the authorities had gone into her home. This may mean that the situation is more acute. Both the EU, the United States and several countries have now notified new sanctions against Burma following the arrest of the Peace Prize winner, who has actually been in prison or has been under house arrest most of the last 19 years. But it is not just the opposition leader who is being mistreated by the Burmese authorities. The population lives under a regime where, unfortunately, fundamental human rights are lacking. The unsustainable situation of large parts of the country's population is further exacerbated by the refusal of access by international humanitarian organisations. Unfortunately, we must admit that the international pressure against the regime in Rangoon has so far had very limited effects. It is therefore positive that the Government is now putting the spotlight on Burma and looking for other possible ways to influence the rulers to improve the situation for the people of Burma. Of course, from our side, we are also positive to a stronger focus on creating a positive economic development for the population of the country. However, we would warn against Norway running alone with the erosion and weakening of international pressure against its authorities. If any measures against Burma have any effect, they must be broadly anchored in the international community.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e919	It is an important topic that the representative Syversen addresses in his interpellation. Burma is a closed country, a country where the little that comes out of information, almost exclusively negative. An open debate on Norway's policy towards the country is therefore all the more necessary. In the jungle east of the country, one of the world's longest and most cruel internal conflicts are taking place. Hundreds of thousands are driven across the borders of neighbouring countries. Even more are displaced internally, and how many have been killed, in reality no one knows. On the right, one-sided positive would be seen in any initiatives and contributions from the Government to a new international review of these issues, as the inter-pellant has also mentioned. At the same time as the conflict continues, Burma's democratically elected leader is still incarcerated, now in the 14th year. Juntaen's kind-of-law case against Aung San Suu Kyi over the last few weeks shows that there are small, if any, signs of change – rather there is a further deterioration through imprisonment. On the recognised ranking of political rights and civil liberties from Freedom House comes Burma as usual at the very last, and even if you almost didn't think it was possible, the trend has been downwards in recent years. It is therefore against this background that the current and future policy towards Burma and the junta regime must be assessed. Minister of Development Solheim has on several occasions signaled that he wants to change today's political line. This happened, among other things: in 2007 and during his visit to Burma now this winter, and it is timely that the Foreign Minister is now also debating this here in Stortinget. The main purpose of the Minister of Development’s visit to Burma seems to have been to follow up humanitarian aid after the Nargis cyclone. Norwegian emergency aid in such a case is a matter of course, but the junta's reaction to the international relief work shows some of the dilemma of dealing with this regime. For a long period of time, they themselves refused basic access to emergency aid — for fear of foreign influence. Channeling assistance in a way that does not strengthen and legitimise the world’s most oppressive regime remains a challenge. This dilemma is further reinforced if the Government were to add to a more comprehensive change in the Burma policy. Economic transparency to strengthen the middle class, to build a democratic public, is a worthwhile goal, but how realistic is it? The leader of the Burma Committee wrote in response to the Minister for Development's initiative: ‘The problem is that the country’s military junta does not want to change.’ Further: ‘There is already a middle class in Burma and it is corrupt. If they are democratic troops, why haven't we heard from them before?' According to Transparency International, Burma, along with Somalia, is the world's most corrupt country. In the discussions on Burma, it has to be considered that in a country that is so corrupt, it is very demanding, perhaps impossible, to pursue a comprehensive economic activity without compromising what should be fundamental ethical standards and human rights. In areas such as rainforests, minerals and oil and gas, these activities are organised in cartels and monopolies, which are served only by the generals and not by the population. Against this background, it seems natural to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs to explain more broadly how to address the dilemmas of any Norwegian policy change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e951	I would also like to thank the inter-pellant for having, by travelling the interpellation, given the Storting the opportunity to debate the situation in Burma for the second time this great period. We are not allowed to forget the suffering of the Burmese people for so many years. Thanks also to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been so ready that Norway is and will continue to be active in many arenas, and now the Human Rights Council will become a new channel. I agree with the Foreign Minister that Aung San Suu Kyi is one of our strongest symbols in the fight for democracy and human rights. Everyone who has seen the North-Tronde Team Theatre's setup about her is being turned off the same thing and by how much she has sacrificed to stand in that fight. I want to encourage everyone who would have to have an opportunity to see this strong show when it shows up. In an article by the former UN reporter to Burma, Paulo Pinheiro, he writes that it is absolutely essential that Aung San Suu Kyi be released for the sake of the country's reconciliation process. There is little evidence that the junta is responsive. She's one of the 2,100 political prisoners in Burma. Another is the comedian Zarganar who was sentenced to a sentence of 35 years because he led a movement that collected money and helped survivors from the Nargis cyclone, and because he gave interviews to foreign journalists about the situation after the cyclone last year. Countless reports are written about the situation of human rights violations in Burma. Over the past 15 years, the Burmese army has destroyed 3,300 villages to keep down the many ethnic groups in the country. The UN reports that Burmese soldiers regularly force people into slavery and recruit child soldiers — child soldiers down to nine years. The UN does not take this up at the highest level, despite the fact that the military regime is likely to have the world's highest proportion of child soldiers. Soldiers who do not risk punishment make money to kidnap and recruit children. Women and children are systematically raped, without having consequences for the soldiers because it is a widespread culture of freedom of punishment. Juntaen knows what all oppressors know; if you're going to break a people, you're going to have to crack and oppress women. Women’s League of Burma reports on the systematic human rights violations. This is an organization of brave ladies who work systematically, among other things. with the follow-up to the 1325 resolution. Norway supports them and must continue to support them. Recently, they and other women’s organisations presented a shadow report to the CEDAW Committee in Geneva. The report points to serious and systematic discrimination against women. It says that no women are safe in Burma today, and that soldiers go into the villages and rape the women who live there. The interpellant raises the question of an international review commission. Five of the world's leading lawyers have called for the investigation of war crimes and crimes against human rights. I share the foreign minister's approach, because it will only be effective if the UN Security Council puts down such a commission. Unfortunately, it is a little realistic, especially with China in the Council. Nevertheless, it is important to raise the claim, says former UN rapporteur Paulo Pinheiro. Firstly, the junta will be held responsible for its actions. Secondly, it will do something about the extensive culture of freedom of punishment in Burma, and thirdly – according to Pinheiro – it will deter possible future war criminals. But until such a requirement can be realized, we must constantly address the human rights situation in Burma and support organisations inside and outside Burma working to improve human rights and the humanitarian situation. Furthermore, it is important to keep up the pressure on ASEAN countries. After many years of isolation of the junta in Burma, the situation has not improved, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has made clear the reasons for this. But it's an important discussion to take, and it's a necessary discussion to take. I can see that it was the debate Solheim was trying to travel. At the same time, it is certain that the Stortinget has decided not to purchase government bonds in Burma, and Finance Minister Kristin Halvorsen recently announced extracts from the Chinese company Dongfeng Motor Group for the sale of weapons to Burma. It was a very important move.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e968	I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the interpellant for addressing a very important topic, namely the serious human rights situation in Burma. I have noticed that the Minister for Development has announced a change of course in Norwegian Burma policy. He will have an increased focus on creating economic development and emerging from the Burmese middle class. The left basically shares his belief in dialogue and scepticism for isolation. On several occasions, I've made myself a spokeswoman for dialogue, including those we don't like to talk to. This is based on a fundamental belief that dialogue is more effective than isolation to influence authoritarian regimes in the right direction. In the case of Burma, Norwegian policies have been invited to dialogue in parallel with targeted sanctions. The sanctions are intended to hit the military junta and not the broad population. The notified change of course now involves, as far as I can see, an increased emphasis on dialogue and more economic interaction in order to promote the middle class. It shall contribute to making changes in Burma. I agree initially with the Minister for Development. Several decades of isolation of the regime have not given the desired results. On several occasions there have been hopes for changes in Burma, but each time the junta has come back and tightened its grip further to regain control. The time for rethinking and trying to think something else seems ripe. I therefore do not, in principle, reject the Minister of Development's change of course. I assume, however, that in his contact with the regime he emphasises the importance of human rights and fundamental political rights for the Burmese people. We must enter into the dialogue with a clear and uncompromising attitude to what we want to convey to the regime. We must not go along with ethical principles or accept that they are moderated and relativised. Another theme addressed in the interpellation is steps to be taken to establish an international investigation commission on the charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity in Burma. I support this. I believe that such a commission could have been beneficially reduced in several places in the world, for example. in Congo and Gaza. But I realize at the same time that this can be a double edged sword. Indeed, the creation of such a commission may further push the accusing party behind its security guards and tighten the grip even more against its population. This may be referred to the arrest warrant against President Al-Bashir in Sudan, who is charged with crimes against humanity and war crimes in Darfur. This is the first time that a head of state has been issued an arrest warrant against him by the International Criminal Court (ICC) since it was established in 2002. Many suggest that the arrest warrant has not helped to mitigate the violence in Darfur or facilitate the humanitarian work in the region. I do not believe that the key to change in Burma lies in the change of course announced by the Minister of Development, or in the investigation commission on the charges of war crimes and crimes against humanity. I think the key is somewhere else, and more have mentioned it before me. I think it's China that owns this key. Through arms sales, financial aid and trade, China has been Burma’s main ally. Furthermore, China, together with other countries, has held a protective hand over this regime by vetoing or voting against UN resolutions against the Burma regime. I therefore believe that Norway, together with other countries, should put greater pressure on China, but also on India and ASEAN countries, to make them use their influence against the regime in Burma. Some signals may indicate that several of these countries are no longer as patient with the abuse of the military junta and that they are beginning to view it as a burden. In view of this, a greater international pressure on these countries, in order to make them use their influence against Burma, can be very effective.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e988	I would like to thank you for the debate and for the good contribution I have made to this interview. There is, in essence, broad agreement on the way forward in Norwegian Burma policy, with some shades. What I think is clear, at least, is that certain basic criteria must be in place to look at a change in our relationship, namely that there must be a clear commitment to the regime to release political prisoners – including Aung San Suu Kyi – that there should be a dialogue with the movement of democracy and the ethnic groups, not least about the revision of the constitution, and that holding elections should be done on a fair basis. The representative Nybakk referred to ‘Responsibility to Protect’ and you can really ask yourself if you should not operate it in the situation that followed Nargis. But it hasn't, and it's probably the big test if the United Nations ever will, as the situation is now. The Secretary-General of the United Nations and his important position, and on which Mr Vaksdal was in, perhaps Ban Ki-moon is going to Burma now. What is it that will determine whether he can succeed? I think it has a lot to do with what framework China indirectly gives Ban Ki-moon to put some effective pressure on the regime. Gambari has at least failed. He hasn't even got to meet Than Shwe on his travels to Burma so far and has been kept up with good talk. In this way, I fully agree that China is an important player. So I'm busy that the $170 million. kr to which the Minister for Foreign Affairs referred, with which Norway contributes, is also a human rights-based help and that it should remain so. We have now resumed the MR dialogue with China, and I hope we can also use the opportunity there to exercise, not pressure – we are not in a situation to do so – but influence China to see if they can further affect Burma. It's not a question of whether there's going to be a change in Burma. It is a question of when, and in this way Norway will be an active driver.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1003	I would like to thank you for a good and informative debate as a result of this interpellation – good because it has been nuanced, and it has not fallen into the mine that Norwegian debates on this often fall into, namely that we know very well exactly what is going on to change major and international issues – it has taken complexity seriously. What I think is some of the key here, which was presented by several speakers at the end, is China's role. It's about the extent to which today's situation in Burma is the best contribution to stability in this part of Asia. I think there are many signs that it will not be, and therefore it is also important to come up with an approach to the reconciliation process and economic and political development in Burma that can be more attractive and that can be a better recipe for stable development. It is not right, as the representative Meling said, that Norway should operate here alone. That's not what Erik Solheim announced. He travelled to Burma with his Danish colleague and thus had an – let's say – EU-related relationship. I have also followed that journey to inspect the humanitarian work following the flood disaster in conversation with many of my colleagues. I will meet my British colleague on Friday, where this is also a topic. Many people are asking these questions now and have them for discussion. This is an area where Norway could put the matter on the agenda, ask open questions, which – as I said in my previous post – should not be interpreted so that when we now discuss the effectiveness of sanctions, the junta should be able to draw a sigh of relief and say that we won over international opinion. No, it's in the search for better tools to bring progress to the right direction. The humanitarian money must, of course, be given with a significant degree of – to say – critical control. It is a demanding landscape to operate in, but what Erik Solheim and his Danish colleague found on his visit was that, after all, much of the help that was given had actually come to light. That means that it is possible to work within a humanitarian space, as I pointed out in my response to the interpellant. It's the humanitarian space we have to try to do big in the future. That is why we must work with the international community in dialogue with China. I don't know if our human rights dialogue with China is the right channels, but what I want to say is that the dialogue opens up a number of contacts with the Chinese leadership that we can use to bring this up and get China involved in Burma's change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1018	Then the interpellation debate is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1032	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given to post from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1041	It is nice to have the Minister of Foreign Affairs present on a matter of travel. This is a great day for the municipality of Voss, the municipality of Granvin and the municipality of Vaksdal – yes, for the whole of Hordaland. Today we are dealing with a toll case about financing projects in Vossapakko, which has been a long-term extension. The projects in Vossapakko will have major, positive consequences and effects in more than one way. The traffic on the E16 through Voss – the main road from Oslo to Bergen – is currently passing through narrow urban streets, and the share of heavy goods vehicles is very large. Over the years, this has created many traffic hazards and not least discomfort for good people who have their honours at Vassevangen, but of course also for traders and others who have their daily work here. With the new tunnel behind the centre of Voss, you get rid of a large source of pollution, and Vossevan becomes again the pleasant village it was before the traffic was about to take a suffocation – with the good cheer of Hestavangen and peace and quiet around the beautiful Vossa church. Vossapakko also contains a new parcel of 3,5 km on rv. 13 at Mønshaug-Palmafoss-parsellen and a new cross in Vaksdal municipality at E16 at Stanghelle. The fourth project is a significant transformation of the path in the Schirvet on Rv. 13 between Voss and Granvin. Here we get a long tunnel. There's a lot of professionals sitting with their hearts on their way up or down the steep hairpin wings, which are built for a different time and for a completely different traffic. This route is also important for the route to Hardangerbrua that is now under construction, and beyond Hardangervidda or to the east side of Hardangerfjorden. With the projects in Vossapakko realised, both E16 and Rv. 13 become safer and more modern roads. But this has taken time, and the people of the Vossa countryside, Hardanger and transit pay over half of the investments. So for us who represent the state, and who are responsible, there is once again reason to thank you for taking on this promise locally, for which the state is strictly responsible. It would only be lacking if we here at Stortinget were to follow up when such initiatives by local and regional teams come! In the project and the case we are dealing with today, there is an environmental tunnel at the Upper Vassenden in Granvin. In retrospect, the State Road Administration has taken up with Hordaland County Municipality and the municipalities of Voss and Granvin if the raced route should not be included in a longer race protection tunnel past the settlement in Upper Vassenden. The Ministry considers that if further investigations of this project would prove to be a better solution, the project should be modified at this point and returned to Stortinget with this. The Committee has considered this issue. We agree with the ministry on the procedure, but the committee is clear in its comments that we see no reason why this matter, and possibly the change, must be returned to the Stortinget if it is a better professional solution, which is also supported locally and regionally. With regard to the financing of the change, we do not take a position on it, but we leave it to the department and possibly the toll company to find a solution. However, for our own part and for the Right, I would like to point out that we – as several of the parties in the hall – have entered in our remarks to NTP to increase the breeding pot to NOK 1 billion per year. years. It has been a pleasure to be the case rapporteur for this matter. The Committee agrees on the projects in Vossapakko – the Progress Party in the right way with another funding – so I think I should like to thank the Committee for its positive work and wish you every success in the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1067	The rapporteur has given a clear description of the various projects included in the package. It is also true, as the rapporteur says, that the Progress Party agrees with the measures but wants a different funding. I refer to the proposal of the Progress Party in the matter, which is based on state funding. It is absolutely right that this is a happy day for Hordaland and for the region which, with these measures, is now getting significantly better road solutions and transport solutions. But at the same time, it's a sad day for the drivers. It's the drivers who take this promise. In a package of 1,1 billion kroner, the drivers will have to lift by approx. NOK 1 billion, not just to pay its share of the investment itself – it is 600 million. NOK 1000 million. kr – in addition, the drivers shall have to lift more than 300 million. DKK in interest and collection costs of 90 million. kr. Overall, this is a special tax, implemented through this toll bill, of DKK 1 billion – 1 000 million. kr – to the drivers due to the fact that the State does not do its job and does not finance what is necessary road improvement measures. That's why it's a sad day for the drivers when today, on Tuesday, we get a new toll-funded road project, just like we had two such projects in Stortinget exactly a week ago. And more are on their way before this session is over. It is also strange when you look at how the tolls are collected. A toll station is located near the municipality border of Vaksdal – a small road measure, a kind of patch on the wound, has been introduced for all the drivers who will pay tolls in the transition between the municipalities of Vaksdal and Voss. However, the measure is very far from being implemented. Between Waksdal and Voss it's probably 40 km, between Voss and Schirvet it's probably 20 km, but you start the collection already when you cross the municipal border between Waksdal and Voss. So this utility concept that the toll keepers are sometimes concerned with highlighting the meaning of, you don't always take it so seriously when it comes to the piece. Finally, I would like to remind you that in this case we too have a comprehensive remark on Norway's toll dispute with the European Union. It is still unexplained, and it is poorly mentioned and not disclosed to Stortinget. It is obvious that precisely on one of the roads mentioned in this proposition, a change in the discount rates, possibly imposed by EU rules and directives, will significantly increase the cost to drivers when they are going to pay new tolls on this measure, in addition to the many other toll billings on road users in Hordaland. As I said, I mention our alternative proposal and regret the fact that, through this proposition, the drivers are again subject to special taxation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1087	The representative of Arne Sortevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1090	The flags are probably going to the top in Vossabygne today, but there is reason for far more than vossings and other hordes to flag. Too many have probably run the Skerve, and it can truly be said to be a shared joy. This old road is probably better suited for what it is now, a local road and a one-way cycle path. Right, I would like to recommend that any bike up this road – cycling down the Skärvet is probably not recommended. A Voss Centre download path requests a new time. Heavy transit traffic through the Voss centre has reduced the quality of this beautiful and comfortable centre. What we're now seeing at the end is a long job. It has taken time, and it prays for tough endurance. It is also so great that there is broad political consensus about the result that is now leading. Here there are quite a lot of good forces that have worked together to the result that we are now looking to see translated into practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1097	I am one of the many people who are pleased that the Stortinge today supports the proposal for partial toll financing by Vossapakko. It follows from the suspension and from the discussion here today that all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party, present themselves in this case – a decision taken in due course by the District of Hordaland, on 13 December 2005. Vossapakko has been planning for a long time, and was first mentioned in St.meld. No 24 for 2003–2004, and in the national transport plan 2006–2015. The size has joined the start of two projects on Rv. 13 through the treatment of action packages. I happened to be at Voss right after the package was presented, and I know that there was great joy in the area because the action package also provided room for startup. There is local connection to the toll system. Decisions have been taken in turn – in Granvin, in Voss, in Vaksdal and in Vik Municipality. The collection period has been calculated at 15 years and external quality assurance of the package has been carried out. It's good that you can now put E16 outside the Voss center, and that you can rest up on Rv. 13 in an area where there is a greater need for improvement. The conversion outside Voss will relieve the Voss centre of continuous traffic, and there is also a set of money to upgrade existing E16 through the center. The package will provide better road standards, better road safety, protection against race and better local environment. E16 and Rv. 13 are tribal roads, and will continue to be national roads after 1 January 2010. The fact that the Progress Party is not satisfied with the fact that local authorities with the county council at the head actually see it as the best solution to go in favour of partially toll-financed development of the national road network is not exactly surprising, but that they also want the government not to bring toll cases before the Storting as long as we have not become involved with the EU on how to adapt to a Brussels directive is perhaps not surprising either. It's worth noting. The representative of Sortevik is now saying that this is a matter that has little information from the department. Let me remind you that the Minister for Transport wrote to the Transport and Communications Committee on 27 April this year that the Ministry is: «in dialogue with the Commission on possible adaptations or any transitional arrangements. Before there is a result of this work, it is difficult to say exactly what time it is and how it is to be implemented in Norwegian law." From this point of view, we have to understand that comments and suggestions from the Progress Party today are only one way of seeing the fundamental resistance of the Progress Party towards Tolls. I think it's something that those who now want to experience a far better way will notice. Like Stortinget, I am pleased that this matter has gone quickly. The matter was raised by the Government on 3 April. Then there is a decision made here today in the Storting, which is actually barely two months later. I'm going to use the opportunity to thank Stortinget because it's been such a fast process from here. It is a matter which will have very great local and regional significance, and which, even in the case of tourism, will indisputably mean a lot.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1117	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1120	I had to say the word when the Council of State tried – at best perhaps at the limit of – a little rudeness when she says that everyone stands up except the Advance Party. I don't think it's a very big deal when the drivers are going to be in charge of more than half of the funding, in addition to the almost 60 billion that the drivers are already paying in to build proper roads in this country. So the question to the Council of State has to be: is there any limit to the state greed in relation to how much money the drivers have to pay, in addition to all the fees they have already paid just to get funded this way and all the other toll projects that this government warmly welcomes in the order and line of state extortion of the drivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1127	The President would point out that greed may well fall outside the parliamentary vocabulary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1131	I hope that the President will nevertheless allow me to comment just on the expression 'grief', as it is taken up by the replicator. Let me say first of all that in an ideal world it might be inconceivable that there was no toll financing of any project. So I believe the representative is fully aware of the past that we have in relation to road construction in Norway and the costs associated with it. Then I have to say that I think it is a good thing to call it “grief” when government and uplifting come up on local initiative, on decisions made from local government to local government and then at the end of the county municipality. It is to follow up and provide local possibilities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1136	It is the local government and the local government that are setting up. Have the drivers been asked? Have the inhabitants of Voss City asked? In addition to a contribution of more than half the cost of the investment, which is 600 million, the drivers will be required to pay tolls in this case. SEK 400 million. kr on top. Is the Council of State that it is reasonable for the drivers to have to pay more than half of the cost of the investment to pay a financial supplement to use this form of government road financing that lacks state funding and that they have to pay 400 million. kr to the top of what they are going to contribute? Does the Council of State feel that this is reasonable?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1141	From time to time, the Progress Party says that they are to strengthen local democracy. In fact, the package that will be attached today is to follow up local decisions. Everyone who's been running through the Skervet, everyone who's seen the traffic through the Voss center, realizes that it's high time to get something done with this particular thing. Then I see it as a burden between state and regional and local authorities, combined with the fact that those who use this road are actually involved and pay for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1146	I record that the Council of State is both talking about hard work and how great you are doing here. I just wonder if the Council of State also bases the documents that you have been involved in adopting in the Stortinget, as a national transport plan that applies to the current period, which says that tolls should be up to 50 pst. So here the tolls are well over 50 pst. So I wonder a little bit about where the boundaries go for the Council of State and for the Central Party, which she represents, that even in the program on which they have gone to elections, and which applies, says that tolls should be a supplement to state funding, and not as it has become now, and as it is in this package, a large proportion of the entire funding.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1153	Let me first underline one more time: there are heavy costs associated with the construction of the road network in Norway. There are major errors in maintenance, there is a need for significant upgrading. This has meant that a local number of places in this country have taken the initiative to make government funds, in order to get together a funding that will allow you to build more roads and upgrade existing roads. I understand that the decision taken here today is broadly consistent — including the local decisions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1160	I think it's very interesting to listen to the Council's response. She says that everyone who's been to Voss understands the traffic challenges that are there – everyone who's been driving through Voss understands it. Yeah, everybody gets it. But then my question is: why is it that you have to wait for the initiative of local politicians to do something about these challenges? Why is it that any government, which is really responsible, does not understand and grant the necessary means – which exist – to repair state infrastructure, but that one has to wait for local initiatives? What does the Council of State think about the local decisions that just point to the need to do so on the basis of State extortion? Do you listen to the decisions and comments of local politicians?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1167	The President would point out that ‘ extortion’ is outside parliamentary language.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1170	This line gives me a reason to correct an open misunderstanding. In addition to a large number of other transport projects in this country, Vossapakko and the projects located there were mentioned in the previous national transport plan. I think the committee leader will agree with me that there is a change of pace, there is a much stronger commitment and a much stronger ability to implement different road projects with today's government. So to that question when you know that there are difficult projects, and where there is blatant local resistance to tolls: here is one that depends on local initiatives being followed up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1177	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The speakers who speak the following shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1182	This is really a joyous day for me as vossing! We've been waiting a long time for this! Vossapakko contains several major investments and improvements on roads in Hordaland. Rv. 13 at the Schirvet is one of those places. It's important that we get a tunnel here, which is good for both road users and cyclists, and it will also take away racially dangerous points on this route. Several have been concerned about how the standard is on this trajectory. It is also very important for the infrastructure and business of Inner Hardanger to release the Schirvet. There have been many near-accidents, and there are many car combinations going there, which have problems getting up this trail. There are also changes in Mønshaugen–Palmafossen and at E16 at Vaksdal municipality. I want to talk in particular about the tunnel behind Vassevangen. It's one thing we've been fighting for for for over 20 years. Under state council Kjell Opseth we had the opportunity to get a tunnel, but the Vossingens couldn't decide whether they would have a long or short one. Some would like to have a tunnel behind the center before the tribal road between Voss and Bergen came, which would increase traffic considerably. So has it. The main road was opened at the end of the 1980s, but we didn't have a tunnel. In the last 20 years, we've seen that traffic through the Van has just increased, and there's a lot of car combinations going through the center per. 24 hours. Even though about 60 pst. of the freight traffic between Oslo and Bergen now going on Bergensbanen, it is quite clear that we need the tunnel, both we who live on the Van, and that the Van will develop as a trading place and destination. It says a little about the wish of the tunnel that the Russian at Voss has been using Russeevents for several years to promote that we should have a tunnel – a little unusual. A friend of mine had 19 years ago on his Russian card "saved Vangen no". My sister had entries in the Russian train. So it hasn't lacked commitment either to the local population, to the politicians or business up through the years. I am grateful that the rapporteur has brought the matter forward in a good way, and that the municipalities that have been involved have been constructive and solution-oriented in relation to the trajectory and toll position. When the tunnel is completed in 2012, it will be a joyous day for the Vossingen and those who will travel through. The whole of Vossapakko is a great journeylift for the Hordaland provinces, especially for the regions affected. To the representatives of the Progress Party, I would just like to say that local democracy is maintained by the elected representatives; that is where we choose those who will be involved in deciding. It's the elected representatives who are in the different municipalities today, we who are sitting on the Stortinget and the government we have today, who have been told that Vossapakko will be adopted in Stortinget today. Tolls some years should go smoothly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1197	To the previous speaker: One of the differences between the Workers' Party and the Advancement Party is that in matters that we believe are particularly important for the inhabitants of a municipality, we will let the residents speak for themselves. The answer, which the council did not give in a row exchange here instead, is that the residents were not asked, and the drivers were not asked. Let me once again state that these are important projects. It is good that they can now be implemented gradually, and they have been waiting too long for this to happen. But the Progress Party is – it is quite right as the Council of State says – against the use of tolls. And with all due respect for the Council of State, she also represents the party responsible for the transport sector, and there is reason to remember that under this government, the use of tolls has actually increased by over 30 pst. There is also a reason, when we are now in a new hour of toll projects in Stortinget, to recall that in the period 1990–2009 the drivers have paid NOK 67 billion in toll contributions. There is also reason to recall that in the new national transport plan currently under consideration in the Transport and Communications Committee, which will be dealt with later in the Storting, the bill for the drivers is new at DKK 75 billion, while the Government itself will spend DKK 60 billion in the major transport corridors. Anyone who drives, whether it's a big trailer or a small car, all over Norway, understands that. They realize that it is necessary to do something about Norwegian road network. They don't understand that the state, which has so much money, is unable to link state wealth, which is our common wealth, to investment in infrastructure in its own country. A lot of people don't understand. It is also true that many people find it highly unreasonable that the country does not invest any more of the large oil wealth in public infrastructure in its own country. I'm going to guard myself against using the expression 'expression', but it's also true that many local politicians feel they're being pressured by a government that doesn't do anything until it shows up so-called local initiative. The common feature of local initiatives is that the entire bill or most of the bill is placed on the drivers. It's the Progress Party against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1207	I understand that the Progress Party now needs to sharpen its profile in relation to tolls. It has probably been a bit difficult in some local environments to know where they end. There is a number of examples that the Progress Party has spoken in high central terms, including in this room when it comes to tolls, but it has been on the local level. I think from my work in the Committee on Control and Constitutional Affairs earlier that not only was the Progress Party involved in Oslo's decision on tolls that would go to a better place, but also for public transport. Then I still thought that we should at least relate to what is the case and practice, and not claim anything that is not a reality. When e.g. I think that Arne Sortevik used a maximum limit of 50 pst. I expect that he there meant to say minimum. I feel that listening to people locally can mean listening to what local people decide on behalf of their own inhabitants. It's done in this case. Then I have to be allowed to say finally that I came in here at full speed, because I had understood it so that the debate would be a couple of hours later. I came from a plane. I am pleased that I came in time, and I am very pleased that Vossapakko is being attached today with such a wide plurality in this room. So it's going to be like that, that there's someone here who's annoyed and irritating and would've gone even a few rounds before this package came into place. Let us now rejoice with the people of Hardanger and the people of Hordaland and everyone else who is now going to experience a better rv. 13 and a better E16.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1216	The next speaker is Per Sandberg – and we'll see how much joy is being expressed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1219	I am going to express great joy on behalf of the Progress Party that there will be a road project in this country. But I don't share the joy of financing. And this is where the Council of State and others have been wrong: there is unanimity in this room for these road projects to be built. It's unanimous, and we wouldn't have had to go more rounds if the majority had joined the Progress Party proposal for funding in line with Norwegian road law. We didn't need any more laps. And I also think the joy in Voss would have been considerably greater if you had done as the Progress Party had suggested. There are some things that I would like to challenge the majority, and also the Council of State. When you refer to local democracy and local initiative, this is anchored. I've looked at the local election programs randomly, the individual parties went to the elections. There's nothing to say that these batches went in for tolls of the size of today's setting. Those who voted in favour of these parties in this region and this municipality did not vote in favour of this toll package. Then it's not locally anchored. However, some local politicians took an initiative because they saw that the responsible political environment was not central to it, and that was the way it was done. Then I haven't talked about extortion at all. I record again that the Council of State, like a number of other responsible politicians, either in the Stortinget or in the Government, refers to Oslopackak 3. I would like to repeat once again: in this Chamber the Progress Party has voted against all the toll projects – because it is in this Chamber that these kinds of things are decided, not in the Oslo City Council, not in the Voss Municipal Council or elsewhere. This is where the responsibility lies. Here we have voted against, and here the Centre Party and other parties have voted in favour of all the toll projects in the current period, and there are more floods. The size has almost become a despatch office for yes-sampling only if you write tolls in front. I do not think there is any particular respect for that, when the responsibility is actually with the central authorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1233	I perceived it as if the Council of State was not very interested in answering me in the change of line. She answered Blackevik's representative on how to interpret 50 pst. toll financing in relation to the national transport plan. My interpretation of what is at least in the NTP for the current period, 2006–2015, is that one looks at approx. 50 pst., while the result since this government took over has been that the vast majority of the projects that have come to the Stortinget have had a toll financing well over 50 pst. And with respect, it should be said that the new proposal for a national transport plan puts the government up to 50 pst. and upwards. I also think it's interesting to know if this is how the Center Party stands on the program they've been selecting, the program that applies to the current period. It clearly states that tolls should be complementary and not a main source of funding for state road projects and infrastructure projects. I still have the benefit of experiencing a Council of States – both the Council of State and the Council of State – which is now acting as the Council of State – that is to say, whether or not the programme of the Centre Party in this area has been set aside and no longer applies. It's interesting for people to know if the Center Party program no longer applies. The councils were concerned that the Progress Party increased its toll profile. We don't need to sharpen any profile. We have been clear and clear in Stortinget throughout this period. In fact, in all the toll projects that have been submitted, we believe that the State is responsible. It is clearly stated in the Road Code. It's also clear and clear that we have both the resources and the ability to build infrastructure if we want. So this government, based on how it has invested in foreign shares – in Coca-Cola, Philip Morris and other companies – now has an unrealised loss of over DKK 600 billion. Maybe you could have used something more of the money invested there to build infrastructure that would have saved society for long-term spending. We know that by spending DKK 100 billion on infrastructure construction, you could have saved SEK 62 billion every year after the investment was made, an investment you could have spent on other important tasks in society. So it's about priority. At least there's no doubt that in this room there's 100 pst. agreement on this project, but it's not 100 pst. agreement on how to finance it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1242	At least I believe that local and regional democracy must be taken seriously. It has been shown that it is a great pleasure that Vossapakko has come into place, and – as I see it at least – with today’s funding. It has been quite interesting to hear the debate. It's really that you could have saved quite a lot of time if you had taken a blueprint of these debates, because the Progress Party is sharpening the profile even more towards toll projects. Now it is actually the case that the Progress Party, and perhaps it also showed the entrance to the national meeting, does not fully agree on toll financing. It has also been shown that strong personalities in the Progress Party have been very much for toll financing – Søviknes in Os and Peter N. Myhre in Oslo – and strongly concerned about getting good solutions. That is why I think we should have a great deal of respect for what is happening in the districts where we want these projects. I wonder a lot about one thing. It's about money use. I don't think there are any limits to using a heads many times. If you look forward a little bit in time, to the big shot, it's a little bit of a challenge to see how the constellations might be on the civil wing, especially between the Progress Party and the Right, when it cracks as it does in this matter of infrastructure development. From the point of view of the position, we are at least interested in finding good solutions to expand this country. There has never, including the national transport plan that is still in force, been as much spent on transport as this government has done. We have made a tremendous effort, including in the case of NTP, to expand the infrastructure in this country. It's a formidable effort that's been made. In fact, I think that we should make a confession, perhaps especially the Advance Party, because there is a lot in the bottom line to get good solutions for expanding this country further. It was at least deficient in the last period of the Bondevik II government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1251	It is interesting to listen to the representative, Ström, because the script used by the representative, Ström, is something that has been adopted at Youngstorget, and that is said on the in and out of breath of the representatives of the Workers' Party, regardless of where they act. There you get involved in the national meeting of the Progress Party and a little different. But I think the representative Stroem said something very interesting, and that was initially in his posts. There, the representative Stroem says that we could save a lot of time if we hadn't had a debate. And that's absolutely right. You could save a lot of time if the Progress Party had shut up – because that's what the representative, Stroem indirectly, says. But we feel as the biggest opposition party of the Storting and Norway's second largest party the need to maintain democracy, especially local democracy. That is why it is our duty as big-time representatives to hold the debate where the debate is to be held: in the Stortinges Hall. Then the representative Stroem and other representatives in this room who feel uncomfortable by adopting toll projects almost every week, would like to see a situation where the Progress Party should not say anything. But then I know what had been the result. If the representatives of the Progress Party in this committee had not commented on anything or not raised a debate, yes, it would probably have been so in retrospect that the Progress Party had joined the toll projects of all the other parties because we had not commented on it. Yes, you can save time, and that's what the sitting government does. Now there are not many days left of this session, and now it dumps down toll projects every Friday. My committee is almost not breathing in and out before a decision is taken – something that I call irresponsible! If it had been the case that local initiatives had dominated all kinds of debate and proceedings in Stortingen, it should have been said. For this I would like to see other areas — the provision of local initiatives to clean up health issues, care for the elderly and school policies. But there is not the same majority of interest in local initiatives; it is only where taxes and taxes are collected at the cost of drivers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1262	We've had ten foreign affairs before today. They went away as hot quince bread. Then there's a toll case, and here we sit. For my part, I thought it was touching that the Progress Party is occupied by local democracy – if that is true, what Per Sandberg just said. But then I ask myself what the Progress Party actually thinks about the indirect democracy of the populace who governs on behalf of those who vote for us. One may sometimes suspect the Progress Party for a lack of respect for local democracy when all decisions that are not made on the basis of popular reconciliation are rejected as undemocratic, or when the majority in municipal government with the Progress Party joins in making decisions that the Progress Party centrally dislikes. Then it becomes clear that the decisions are zero worlds for us at Stortinget. Whatever we mean about tolls, it's not going to get away from the fact that government funding for transportation projects has increased dramatically during this period, and that the bet will be much bigger over the next ten years as well. For my part, I think it is good for the Progress Party to call for debate, but this debate is about Vossapakko, and if every time we call the word 'bompengar' on a matter, it will be a long journey towards sunset.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1273	I took the floor because Per Sandberg's representative was obviously a little surprised by the post to Tor-Arne Stroem. He showed a little contempt that the post was obviously produced, or written, at Youngstorget. Yes, it is clear that it makes the impression on the representative Sandberg, because unlike the Progress Party, we are making a program on which the party stands. And we in the Workers' Party do not change meaning from case to case as the wind blows. I have now gradually begun to realize that the Progress Party is against tolls. It's okay! But maybe it would have been wise if the Progress Party also calculated a little bit on what it costs, and could come here and tell us repeatedly where to take the money from, and whether it should go at the expense of something, or whether you're just fundamentally opposed to being opposed. I think that might have been a little nice. Then I want to give honor to the Right and the Left, who do not throw themselves into a debate where we actually have a disease decay from a government council that has this responsibility, namely, transportation. We have a Council of State, and I feel that it is a great formation that we do not hold a debate with a Council of State that does not have this subject area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1284	Now I have to say that I think that the Per Sandberg representative is a little hairy, whether it can be a parliamentary expression. What I said was, if you made a blue copy, you could have saved a lot of time. I have never put any restrictions on the debate, but it is quite predictable in this Chamber in relation to fronts in terms of toll financing. So I'm going to save time, I'm not going to spend my three minutes. Similar debates will probably be held later in this session, probably also in the autumn. But then it's a little important that you also get some clarifications. Per Sandberg will have answers from other parties and from the position of some things, but he does not respond in terms of direction and crack in terms of toll financing in his own party. He doesn't say anything about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1289	Per Sandberg has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1292	At our national meeting it was a unanimous decision, so the party does not crack into toll issues at all, we stand together. This has been adopted, decided, and no one is going to dispute at all, except the representative Stroem. I would like to challenge the Council of State: does the Council of State agree with the representative of the Fallet that we should not have had a debate, because we have a Council of State? Because I think that is alarming, that we are not going to discuss matters that have been put before the Storting because we have a Council of State. It's alarming, and if the Council of State agrees, it's very interesting. And if that's how the representative Klinge thinks that all the toll issues are the same, why can't the majority say that now we're bringing together all the toll projects until 2019, and then we're going to take them in a click? You – the majority – can do that. Then you've simplified the process. But my point in relation to local democracy is: no one has promised their voters these tolls, so it is not local democratically anchored.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1300	I think things are now properly explained, and the debate ended. But I got a specific question, and it gives me the opportunity to say that I'm the effective head of the Department of Transport. This is the case, and of course I would like to welcome all parties to debate on the matters that the Department has to deal with, both here in the Stortinget and otherwise.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1305	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3261]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1321	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1330	I'll try not to talk about tolls, I'll try to talk to you. There was not much of it in the previous debate, it was largely not Vossapakko. I want to start by paying tribute to the members of the NSB, to the group and to Einar Enger, the director, for the positive developments we have had at the NSB since 2003 – there is a growth in both passenger numbers and freight. I believe that we have had a red-green government that has stuck to a ownership policy that means that one has not lived in security with regard to getting English states in Norway, in the form that the Right Party and the Progress Party would privatize and split this up even more – that one has avoided it – has also made the NSB successful. What we've just seen is that now this government has given the NSB and the Railway Agency and we who believe in trains in Norway, a draw aid that makes the train future, not least on the investment side, where we now know that NSB is going to invest $4 billion in new trainsets. It's positive for us who believe in the train, and it'll be positive for the NSB. And so this year, the red-green government spends $10 billion on trains in different ways. There's something about the level we're currently at compared to the level we had when Skogsholm was Minister of Transport – a little over a billion. So it's going to be a lot, a lot more. Train is the answer. In summer I drove a freight train from Trondheim to Stavanger. Then I had 30 vehicles – and we were two people in that train – 30 trailers were away from the road because of it. So the potential is enormous, and then I'm not just thinking about the climate challenges that we're solving with the train. We're solving a number of other challenges as well. Think of the reduced traffic noise if one removes thousands of trailers from the roads. Consider also the reduced risk of road accidents if a vehicle train is removed from the roads. It's really future. In addition, if a person moved more traffic across the road, a few better places would be on the road, so that – for the benefit of business – the bus could arrive there, instead of waiting for queues, as is very often the case today. Some challenges: NSB was a time very visible that they thought high-speed trains in Norway were a good idea, but then they have kind of subdued themselves a little again and are not so offensive in language usage when this is the case. Here the NSB is informed by the Committee, a large majority, that it wants them to be more involved and contribute to the debate on high-speed trains. What can NSB do to ensure high speed train realisation? A study has been conducted in 15 Western European countries to show that Norway is on top of air transport. There are no countries among the fifteen that have more air traffic than us per. person. And then the potential is there. So I mean that NSB now has to go up to challenge Avinor. There are three other challenges that are discernible and must be addressed in cooperation with the Railway Agency and others. The one is universal design. We must now, when we have received anti-discrimination laws, ensure that everything is always universally designed, and that those who need it, those with baby carriages, etc., can travel universally for as long as the journey lasts. And then one of the things that NSB has started has to have a focus on energy use. What NSB has done so far to save energy is very good, but here we think there's more to do. So to the main challenge: punctuality, information and service. On Friday I was in Berlin, and it was a great experience to be at the Hauptbahnhof, a gigantic train station. So there's 98 pst. of the high-speed train and 97 pst. by local train in route. Then the trust in trains becomes very big, because one knows that when one is at the station, the train comes. And so this is where the NSB and the Railway Agency are going to come out bad. Here – and it is a clear signal – the level of ambition of those who drive trains in Norway must rise. In my meeting with the Federal Representative for Social Democrats, Heidi Wright, there was no doubt: Punctuality has the highest priority. People can count on the train to leave when it needs to. We have good experience with state-owned flights in Norway. That's a good point. But I think the main challenge for the NSB now is to be involved and contribute to the train's confidence coming back 100 pst., and that the punctuality becomes as it should be, approaching according to the German model.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1349	The notification of the cancellation of NSB’s activities shows that the Government’s conversion of the transport system during the period in a more environmentally friendly direction, including through: increased bets on freight and passenger transport, on train and bus transport, deliver results. The notification shows that the NSB is contributing positively to the Government’s transport policy objectives of efficient, safe and environmentally friendly transport. In recent years, the NSB has delivered much better financial results than in the past, customer satisfaction has increased and punctuality has improved. After passenger numbers fell in the years 2000 to 2003, the number of passengers travelling by train is again increasing. The conscious and long-term investment on the railways by the Government during this period, with a sharp increase in the infrastructure development and upgrading appropriations, increased the purchase of unprofitable passenger services, the purchase of new train sets that will come from 2012 and clear requirements for the company for efficient and customer-friendly operation have given a new optimism in rail-Norway and strengthened rail and rail transport as a competitive transport option in Norway. It is important to note that there is an overall committee which expresses satisfaction with the development of the NSB during this period, and it is recalled that this development must continue, so that the company can be further developed in order to obtain even more customers. I would like to point out the self-contradictory message given here by the Right and the Progress Party, where they are initially satisfied with the development of the NSB in their comments on the matter, and stress that this development must continue, while these parties will launch more lines of competition. In order to justify such a position, they stress that ‘the purpose of tenders is to further strengthen the offer to users, travellers: [[...]] On the other hand, in this signal to the NSB of the Progress Party and the Right, the long-termity and predictability of the Government in relation to its ownership in the notification, as requested by the NSB for the purchase of new train sets and the overall strategy of the group in the next few years, are lost. The only thing that is certain is that they will put out the train transport in Norway. The main challenge we need to address in order to achieve the transport policy objectives ahead while achieving objectives in policy areas such as regional policy, climate and environmental policy, industrial policy and health policy is to achieve a different transport modality from what we have today. It will require political courage to implement such a transformation as the Government proposes, among other things. in the proposal for a national transport plan, but this is absolutely necessary. We need to use instruments to limit passenger car use and encourage people to use more environmentally friendly transport. Therefore, at a time of strong growth in traffic and greenhouse gas emissions, the Government's ambitions for the next ten years to increase rail competitiveness through a stronger commitment to rail transport are essential. Parts of the network are 100 to 150 years old, with a high need for investment and maintenance, and parts of the train equipment are old. The first priority is to get track of daily train traffic, especially in the intercity triangle. The increase in the government’s appropriations for operation and maintenance each year, and in particular in 2008 and 2009, is therefore gratifying and important for passengers in general and for all commuters in particular. At the same time, the Government’s strategy to complete the deployment of the dual-track railway in the intercity triangle Oslo-Halden, Oslo-Skien and Oslo-Lillehammer is important in order to improve the commuter and freight services on these routes. The purchase of new train sets by the NSB underlines this commitment. The Committee is concerned that we need to increase the speed of rail both in the intercity triangle and between the major cities in order to compete with cars, buses and aircraft, and to coordinate the development strategy with our neighbouring countries. I would like to stress that it is important that the new train sets can contribute to this. Finally, I would like to point out that although the NSB has had a happy development in this period of better punctuality, the company has some challenges ahead. There have been major challenges in train traffic in the intercity triangle especially around Oslo last year, with great delays for passengers. We understand that this is partly due to the infrastructure, but it is also due to old train sets and lack of drivers. It is important to require the NSB that good information is provided to passengers and that alternative transport is offered.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1377	A little bit of fun it was to record that in the previous case there was someone who was concerned about not having to spend so much time, but here at least all the parties have signed up, so I expect that here it is obviously very easy to spend a lot of time. So first, to the representative Langeland. He must always try with some foreign scare examples. But it could be fun to bring the representative Langeland down to Oslo S, and then we could take a trip with the Gjøvik track, which is also competitive, and which is a very good example that competition is actually sensible and very good. This flashdown message provides Storting with an overview of the NSB’s operations. It is with great satisfaction and joy that it can be seen that the positive developments that could be recorded in the last time we dealt with the activities of the NSB have continued, and that these developments may also continue in the future, although there are now a number of points that indicate that development can stop a little. Nevertheless, we have the hope that good development will continue. However, I would point out that we are very concerned that small changes in the negative direction of both passenger and freight traffic can have significant negative economic consequences for the company. It is also very worrying that the parent company is completely dependent on large sales gains from the property company ROM Eiendom – and everyone knows what the situation has been in that market now – and it can help to weaken the company’s performance and have significant negative consequences. We therefore believe it is important that the company concentrate its activities on the core tasks, which are the transport of goods and passengers by rail. With regard to the structure of the company, we will therefore propose to sell out the bus business and all the property that is not important for the company to run the core business, i.e. freight and passenger transport. As part of our proposals for changes to the company, we also believe that it would be very positive for the company to bring in private owners who could come in with new eyes and help the company to continue its good development, and we therefore propose that the government submit a case of state sales in the NSB. I also want to come back to the competition of the Gjøvik track. Actually, it was a success. That led to 40 pst. multiple take-offs, while passenger growth was also very good – without costing the State a single ear more than before the route was exposed to competition. We therefore believe that this clearly demonstrates that competition contributes to a better offer for customers than they had before the competition. We therefore believe that the Sørlandsbanen, Kongsvingerbanen, Trønderbanen, etc. are routes that should now be considered to compete. The progress party is being accused of wanting to shut down the railway as well. These are claims that are completely incorrect. We are committed to ensuring a modern, efficient and forward-looking railway where the train has the power to compete with other modes of transport today and in the future. But unfortunately, we have some sections where there are no other reasons for maintaining the rail service than perhaps just the political desire that there should be a railway there because of environmental considerations, passenger numbers or road safety. As you know, the Transport Economic Institute has also produced a report on competition on the Norwegian rail network, which states that there are some sections which are not economically viable either. The Progress Party is of the opinion that it is important to ensure a good offer on the railway where it has competitiveness and the ability to compete, rather than in death and life to maintain it in areas where there is no life law, and which can help to weaken the competitive power of the train, because these routes must be involved in subsidising unprofitable distances – thereby losing their competitiveness. Nettbuss AS has also been developing well in recent years, and the express bus offer has become a major success, with offers across large parts of the country. These are also operated without direct public support, and show, we believe, that it is a large market that it is also important in the future to ensure framework conditions that contribute to the continuation of the good development of both the express buses and the hourly buses. We would also like to point out that we are satisfied that the company has been involved in road safety for both passengers and employees in recent years and that few accidents have occurred. However, it must be pointed out that there have been many aspects of safety both on and along the railway track that have been pointed out by the Railway Authority and that it is important that the company takes seriously and ensures follow-up. We would also point out that while the number of passengers using the railway is increasing, the satisfaction of customers with the company has fortunately increased, but there is still some way to go before you can be satisfied. In order for customer satisfaction to continue to rise, it is important that the company continues to improve punctuality, train equipment and not least the cleanness of trains, which many still believe is too poor. The company will also make large investments in new materials in the coming years to meet customers’ requirements for train equipment. It is important, then, that materials comply with universal design requirements so that disabled persons can also use the new trains. We are pleased that the Government has proposed to reduce the requirement for dividends from the company, and we want this to be further assessed in order to ensure the company's future space for action, particularly in the light of the challenges that are now being seen, including: the need for such high yields, e.g.: ROM Property. I would like to bring up the proposals of the Progress Party on the matter and the proposals we are in favour of.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1409	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1412	The right is pleased that in recent years the NSB has delivered much better financial results than before. In addition, customer satisfaction has increased, and punctuality has improved, even if wave valleys occur. During the period 2000–03, the number of travellers fell by 11.6 pst. Now that development has turned around, and the number of travelers is constantly increasing. In 2007, 5.2 million more people travelled with NSB passenger trains and the NSB Gjøvik Railway than in 2003, an increase of 11.5 pst. This is positive. In systematic efforts to meet competition from other modes of transport, the NSB has carried out extensive improvement work that has resulted in positive effects both on the company itself, its owners and not least the customers. This development must continue. But it's not said that the NSB should continue as a 100 pst. State-owned or non-competition. That's where the position is wrong, and that's where the position shows it's not thinking new at all. In the Bondevik II government, CargoNet was created, a innovation that has resulted in us all now talking about the need for more crossing tracks to meet the violent growth of freight on the railway. This is very positive, but old NSB goods transported about not goods at all the last time they existed. Then came CargoNet, and it has given a huge growth, as Hallgeir Langeland pointed out. He even had his seat on. What's worth noting when Langeland talks about English states is that on freight traffic there is free competition. It is a company in Drammen that probably many have met along the highway, namely Autolink, which has car trailers running around Norway. They have now gone to the purchase of quite a few train sets in an environmentally friendly way to transport their cars to markets around the country. This shows that healthy competition also means that the major player, the NSB, represented through CargoNet, has intensified. We think the same thing will happen if one opens up competition in passenger transport. We've seen that on the Gjøvik track, and we'll be able to see it on a number of other sections. I want to mention an actor like the Flytrain, who is also a state-owned company, but who has been on top of the customer survey in terms of satisfaction. The air train is interested in competing on the passenger transport market in addition to carrying passengers to and from the Gardermoen. Why does the red-green government not want to open up to this, when the red-greens at the same time specify in their comments that it is great that the NSB is competing for customers abroad? Then it is a little strange that one should not have any competition in passenger transport in Norway. NSB has major punctuality challenges. This, of course, is largely due to the railway system's challenges with the infrastructure. But of course, worn-out trains, problems with snow and ice etc. made the winter not a particularly pleasant experience for those of us who use the train almost daily to work. But what the NSB should be commended for is at least that the staff on board trains have an unusually good mood and a good service setting. What is often lacking is information for passengers standing on the platform waiting. While the Flytog gets buses right away, it can be a long time before NSB customers get any information at all. I am aware that it is more difficult to get buses for 40,000 travelers who are going with the NSB than for the maybe two-three thousand who are taking the Fly train, but we simply have information to demand. That's where the NSB has to tighten up, and they've said that they're going to do it. So a little bit over to this by bus. Netbuss is a successful subsidiary of NSB. It has been so successful that all good local initiatives are driven by entrepreneurs, for example: The TIMExpress from Notodden to Kongsberg has been purchased by Nettbuss. I don't think it's healthy that a dominant state company to those degrees has control of the bus market. That is why, together with the Progress Party, we want Nettbuss to be sold out. There is no reason why the NSB, which is primarily required to operate on trains, should also be a giant bus operator. There are many players who can compete, just as it would be for the railways if the red-greens remove some of their ideological skyscrapers and open up greater competition also in passenger transport. I am pleased that an overall opposition wants this. That means well for the next period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1427	There is a broad consensus in the Storting that the NSB should continue to be a state carrier that contributes to ensuring the objective of increased rail traffic. The aim is to travel as much as possible by train. Strong State ownership of the NSB group is important to ensure the position of the train in competition with other modes of transport. The State must use the management mechanisms to strengthen the railway. Good collective provision and the transfer of goods from road to road are important to reduce social problems related to the environment and road safety. In addition to the management mechanisms, the purchase of transport services is important in order to fulfil the social tasks of the train, where there is no basis for commercial operation. This is crucial, among other things: to maintain train provision in and around the central population areas, so as to avoid traffic jams, cork and polluting emissions. Should people take the train, we must have an offer that customers perceive as good and stable. It concerns punctuality, information provided, departure times, travel time and the comfort offered. The main objective must be to facilitate a good offer to travellers. Unfortunately, there are still major challenges to punctuality. Yes, problems have increased in recent years. This is partly due to infrastructure conditions, but also with the NSB it is a significant potential for improvement. People must be able to trust the NSB. I expect the company to take this seriously, and the Council of State will ensure that the NSB delivers the services the company is set to do. Unlike the government parties, the Christian People's Party is not allergic to railway outsourcing. On the contrary, we believe that the competitive outsourcing of some sections can contribute to better and cheaper services. I believe that the ideological opposition of the government parties to competition is somewhat forward-looking. It should be unnecessary to let ideology take precedence over practical and good solutions, solutions that will provide a better offer to travellers. The Christian People's Party will not compete at all costs, but we have good experience in which this has already been done. It is not as government parties claim that competitive outsourcing will automatically help to weaken the NSB. It's a reconstructed black and white image that the Christian People's Party will call the ideological skylights of the government parties. The government acknowledges the success of Gjøvikbanen, and the government parties applaud the fact that NSB works in competitive activities in the Nordic region with great success. At the same time, they say no to more competition for passenger transport in Norway. Thus, the State chooses to allow the NSB to compete for services which it itself opposes in Norway. It is not connected, in the opinion of the Christian People's Party. I refer to the proposal of an overall opposition to start the work of launching several routes in Norway. Passenger transport by train is facing increasing competition from other modes of transport. At short and medium distances, the train meets competition from the passenger car and from the bus. On the longest routes, competition is greatest from aircraft. Low-cost air tickets are increasingly available. The competitive picture is also marked by express buses with route services in parallel with the train offer. The Christian People's Party believes the train must be the root of the collective offer to the NSB. It is the train that is the advantage of the NSB to win the competition for the travellers. I trust that the NSB Group is working hard to strengthen train provision in Norway. At the same time, however, the NSB was heavily involved in bus operations. The NSB has become heavily involved in the bus sector and has become a very busy bus company. The Christian People's Party agrees that buses are good where these buses interact with the train and strengthen public transport. We are therefore not in favour of the sale proposal. But we're critical that the bus goes parallel to the train. We want the train to go on the rails, and do not want Nettbuss on the road along the rails. Finally, I would like to stress the importance of the universal design requirement being fully followed up. There are still significant challenges here, and it is very important that both construction, train equipment, ticketing and so on. is available to all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1450	I am pleased that the message about the NSB's business shows that the company's good development has continued. Every year since 2003, the railways have had good growth both in terms of passenger numbers and in terms of freight transport. A successful investment on the railroad is absolutely necessary if we are to be totally closed to developing good transport solutions for people and businesses. Effective road transport is also dependent on getting more of the traffic growth on the railways. The importance of efficient traffic management and road safety is a good reason to bet even more on the railway. The importance of climate and environment are additional reasons not only for maintaining but also for increasing the amount of investment on the railways in the coming years. I'm glad that the government has seen this, and that the permissions to the core path for that reason have increased greatly. Not least, I am pleased that the NTP for 2010–2019 provides an additional major boost for maintenance and investment related to rail transport. The NSB's purchase of new trains and the strong upgrading of the infrastructure will provide good growth opportunities for the NSB and Norwegian railway in the next decade. Like the Government, the Central Party also believes that it is strategically important to further develop NSB as a state transport group for passenger trains, buses and freight. The centre party is pleased that the NSB has delivered better financial results in recent years than in the past. Trains have been more punctual than before and customers are more satisfied. Nevertheless, it is not possible to get away from the fact that train traffic during periods and on separate sections is characterized by many delays, set departures and too low punctuality. As with the rest of the committee, the Central Party and I also have clear expectations that the NSB will deal with this – both with the companies themselves and in cooperation with the Railway Agency and other actors. I hope that they will take the NSB themselves, along with the efforts that the red-green parties will make for the core track, will lead to a new spring for the core track in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1464	It is positive to be able to read from St.meld. No 21 that both in 2006 and 2007 the development of the passenger train activity was good, with an average annual growth both in the number of passengers and passenger kilometres. Positive developments have continued in 2008. Economic turnover in passenger train services has also shown strong growth in the period since we dealt with the previous wholesale notification. The strong growth is due to the increase in the number of travellers and the inclusion of the Swedish business. According to the notification, the operating result has been positive since 2005, with an operating margin of between 6 and 8 pst. However, the margin had gradually been reduced. This is mainly due to the fact that personnel costs have increased from 32 pst, measured against income, to 40 pst. Furthermore, the NSB has incurred increasing costs related to non-conformity management due to planned and non-scheduled settings. This is an important fact-finding basis for the further debate on the activities of NSB AS. For the Left, a strong and well-functioning railway is important in Norway. That's why we've been drivers of rail both when we put in government, by starting up big and important projects and by thinking new, getting more rail for money, and now in opposition by granting more money than the Stoltenberg government at each budget, and by being a proponent with the Right and Christian People's Party to achieve a better climate settlement than the SV did in a majority government. The reason for the left's commitment to the railway is that the railway is like a cheek egg – it's environmentally friendly, it's important for the promotion of our roads, and it's important for road safety. Although some parties in this room have not received an answer to the ‘whole’ environmental friendliness of the railway, there are at least some answers to the NSB’s own websites – which are otherwise very good. You can find an environmental calculator and figure out how much CO2 is emitted when you travel by train versus your own car. For me, this is important, but what might be equally important is the way forward. As a representative of Akershus, I am concerned about the future. I have read predictions that by 2030 the population growth in Oslo and Akershus will be about 30 p.m. I even read 37 pst. It's huge! I am convinced that we must move as many of the travellers as possible onto rails, both for the sake of accessibility, the surrounding environment and road safety. That's why the Left is very concerned about the intercity triangle – and that we compete with cars and planes on the routes to Bergen, Trondheim and Kristiansand. However, this is a debate we will come back to in connection with the treatment of NTP. It is no surprise that the Left wants competition on the track. We started that with the Bondevik II government, and we want to continue that with a government change after the elections in September. The majority say in their comments that there is a self-contradictory message from the opposition parties when, on the one hand, we are satisfied with the development of the NSB, and, at the same time, will put new sections of the path on offer. Of course, this is not contradictory. You always have to strive to get better. The day you hit yourself on the chest and say I'm good enough, I don't have to get better, it's wrong. It's at least a completely foreign thought for me, and I think it's actually for the NSB as well. NSB has had major challenges. Decisive governments have certainly wanted to give higher priority to the railways, but in the fight for roads, well-being, school and municipal economy it has probably not always been easy. Now, however, we have more money to spend than for a long time. I refer you to the essay in Evening Post 15 May 2009 on the richest government in history. Now we have the opportunity to spend more money on the railway, but we are still facing priorities, which the treatment of NTP will reveal. There, the different parties will show their priorities for the next ten years. Finally, I would like to say that I feel that the will to travel collectively is greater than ever. Then it is very important that we politicians give proper priority, and that the NSB and the Railway Agency deliver a good product, so that it becomes attractive, and so that the travellers meet clean, pleasant stations with good information, with proud employees in the NSB, clean and fine trains and seats, and not least that it is punctuality. I see that the representative Hallgeir Langeland is now out in the media and demands greater punctuality – after he has been silent for four years under a majority government and has not made any concrete suggestions on how the NSB should get to this punctuality! Now, obviously, it's a campaign.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1489	Governments have different means of consultation to help achieve the objectives of transport policy. The ownership of several central state companies, including: NSB AS, is one of these tools. In this other owner's message about the NSB's operations under the sitting government, the Stortinget is briefed on developments in the NSB group over the last few years. In addition, an assessment of the plans and strategies the group has for the next four years. The message draws up the goals and expectations of the owner of the group in a number of areas. There is reason to stress that the Government does not impose a restriction on its responsibility for the operation of the NSB. In companies where the owner is not in the board, as is usual in state-owned companies, it is all the more important that clear and clear signals are given from the owner to the board of directors about goals and expectations. This is why it has been done in this message. The government commits to forwarding NSB as a multi-purpose transport group and assumes that the group is continuing to exploit the synergies it provides. The Government maintains that it is not desirable to suspend the operation of the passenger train service on several routes. This includes, among other things: related to the economies of scale within the combined production of passenger train services in Norway. A competitive postponement could potentially lead to a smaller passenger carrier, such as a less powerful NSB. The government is very pleased with the development of NSB in most areas since the last owner message. Both the number of persons transported by rail and bus and the volume of goods have gone in a positive direction. This is a happy development based on, among other things. environmental considerations, road safety and more efficient traffic management. Economic developments have improved up to and including 2007, but also the post-crisis effects of the financial crisis have occurred in the NSB. In 2008, this was seen as a much worse year in an economic sense. The low economic cycle will also necessarily affect the NSB in the future, but the different parts of the group will mark this to varying degrees and at different levels. Since 2005, the government has greatly increased the permissions of the railway infrastructure, an increase to be followed up in the coming years. This increase will be reflected in a better and expanded runway, where the opening of the Sandnes–Stavanger double-track in 2010 and the West Corridor in 2012 will mean a new everyday life for very many train travellers. The NSB is ready to run more trains, but this also requires monthly investments. The government is now introducing a new dividend model that takes greater account of its investment needs. For the NSB, a 50 pst expectation shall be assumed for the next three to five years. dividends, a decrease from 75 pst. which has been in practice for the last few years. The final determination of dividends shall be assessed each year. In a normal year for NSB, this corresponds to a reduction in the dividend to the country of between 100 and 150 million. kr. This will help to make it easier for the group to realise plans for an increase in and better supply of passenger and freight for years to come. It is also important that the NSB has the finances to further develop the owned subsidiary ROM Eiendom AS administrator. This is a large and important area that not only has much to say for the railway sector, but also for, among other things. urban development objectives. In particular, it is important that the areas are developed in such a way that they are involved in generating more passenger traffic by rail. In the coming years, the government will make it possible to increase the capacity to transport goods on the main routes on a monthly basis. It is therefore important when during the planning period, CargoNet, as the dominant operator of container transport, proposes to acquire new locomotives. These investments will be able to exploit the increased capacity provided by the infrastructure measures. The NSB, as mentioned, is one of the means of transport policy, and the effort in Norway is, as it is said, the most important thing. The message, however, outlines a situation where a Nordic bet may be in line with the objectives of ownership. With the significant capital needs NSB will have the next few years, the board must assess the importance of gaining experience from abroad against the resource use such a bet will require. Finally, let me stress that, as a state-owned group, the Government has expectations not only directly related to operations and the economy, but also to the fact that the NSB is conscious of its social responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1519	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1522	Without obtaining prior permission to make a reply to the Council of State, I still allow myself to do so. The NSB has been allowed to compete in our neighbouring country Denmark and Sweden, both within the rail and within the bus sector. I wonder if the Council of State thinks it's okay for the NSB to be allowed to compete in our neighbouring country, while it's not okay for others to be allowed to compete in Norway. Doesn't the Council of State think it's going to be a little bit rearward? And what, if any, is the reason why she thinks this is entirely right?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1529	I have nothing to add to current policies in that area. The most important thing is to secure large national actors, with the flexibility it provides. Let me mention Nettbuss, as one example. In the bus sector, Nettbuss provides both stability and flexibility in the supply in Norway, while having very mixed experience with the international players who have arrived.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1536	The central government councils often see the value of small units — be it municipalities or small businesses — and the importance of diversity. In its argument to maintain the NSB’s monopoly on passenger services on trains, the Council of State said that it was the economies of scale that were crucial – i.e. no competitive outsourcing, because there are economies of scale. What about the sector in which the Council of State just mentioned, the bus sector, where there is a diversity, where there are many competing? What about Norwegian, who created the necessary competition for SAS? What about the ferry business, both domestic and foreign, where there are many companies competing for the tenders? Why not have a state company in all these areas? What is so special about passenger traffic on trains that the red-green government is going to keep the monopoly here?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1543	I can confirm the view of the Centre Party when it applies to small units in different contexts, such as small enterprises or municipalities. At the same time, in the case of passenger services on trains, some experience suggests that NSB has the economies of scale in being able to use both material and personnel flexibly. The government has chosen to keep NSB as it is. We even have notice that we don't want to set up more passenger services within the railway on offer, while keeping a close eye on what's going on. For example, we're slipping. about what's happening on the Gjøvik Railway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1550	When assessing the outcome of NSB passenger traffic on trains, there are several criteria to be used. One of them is capacity utilisation. It is in 2008 at 31 pst. two of three seats are empty. According to the answers from the NSB itself, they expect them to increase this factor to 39 pst. during 2013. I wonder if the Council of State is satisfied with these figures. Let me also add that we have got figures on the capacity utilisation in the Oslo area in the rush traffic that is below 60 pst. for local trains, short regional trains and intercity trains – both morning and afternoon noise measured – namely 59 pst. the autumn of 2008. So there is a considerable amount of available capacity. Is the Council satisfied with this figure? And for both questions, what do you do to increase capacity utilisation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1559	What's very pleasing about the NSB is that the NSB on more and more distances competes with the car. It is a specific theme in the context of the national transport plan how to make even better use of these possibilities. I mention in my post now both the double-track Stavanger-Sandnes and the West corridor as an example that it should be even better. Of course, capacity utilisation could have been better than it is today. There's something that the government is continuously busy with towards NSB, and it's fortunately something that the NSB is busy about. I am recording in the setting today that there is also something the Storting is busy about. It shall be notified back.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1566	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1571	As rapporteurs, it may be useful to sum up some of the debate. I think it came out very clearly, and there has been a clear tendency that the parties on the right side, especially the Right, the Left and the Advance Party, have our ambiguity when it comes to state ownership, while the Christian People's Party has our less clear, actually a little more positive to state ownership. It seems that the right-hand side of Norwegian policy is gathering on an ideological thinking that is about privatising more of what the state is running, and especially within the railway. Even bus companies, in which the country is involved, shall sell out. While the plural is occupied with stability. One is busy developing what one has, through the ownership that one actually has, and that gives security to the travellers, but also to those who add to it when it comes to the conditions under which they will work in the future. That one takes that debate, I think is good for the debate out there among the people most. I think many people will see that what happened in England when a privatized person there, what's happened in New Zealand, Australia and other places, has a fair reversal, because it didn't work. The financial crisis should also make people think a little about – all this market would clean up. So now it turns out that the market has a lot of constraints. Then the state has to clean up the financial crisis and the market that has been tracking it all off. So I got an interesting comment from the Left that I have been silent for four years – I have been silent Birgitte for four years. It seemed to me to be a considerable exaggeration, not least since he came from the representative of the Left, because I expect that she has heard the sound of me both here and there. I record that a found there are small results SV have come along, when we allow NOK 10 billion to train in 2009. Our level in the National Transport Plan is 5 billion dollars a year. We have a double balancing system, and we have adopted a number of measures that are not least favourable to the climate. While the Left, as when they were in government, managed to get a whole billion, i.e. ten times less than SV, depends on SV when we deliver results both for the climate and on train betting. It's very interesting that the left flag is high. I thought they should have tried to get results when they put in government, and not tell SV and the government party that they have worse results when we deliver a train bet that is unparalleled in Norway in a hundred years, just 10 billion in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1584	To the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland I just want to repeat what I said in my post, that we actually have a lot more money to spend now, even on transportation. This newspaper article is going to be in my drawer, and every time the red-green boasts about how much money they spend for different purposes, I'm going to take it up and show it from this pulpit. So they're going to see it often in the future. So to it with punctuality: the representative Trond Helleland was into this with punctuality, and what could be the reason why the NSB doesn't achieve the punctuality that they probably wanted themselves to achieve. The reason for this is, among other things: working on the line in the Oslo tunnel. Then it becomes a little bit strange that Hallgeir H. Langeland doesn't take it in. What surprises me is that the work is going so slowly. I read in Technical Weekly that work was done three and a half hours at night in the Oslo Tunnel. I believe that is the wrong way to work. I think you could work a little faster. You could simply drop some train departures, put in buses and get rid of the job that the Railway Agency is now doing. I'm sure it would benefit the travellers, because then you could have done the job in a shorter time. What we hear all the time is that we have to wait until 2012 before it's going to be okay. I think that's a sleeping cushion, and I'm very sorry. Then it's wrong that Hallgeir H. Langeland has been tause Birgitte. He hasn't been at all. In every post that's been about public transport, transportation and rail, he's been talking about the previous government. But he's been taus in being creative and forward-looking.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1594	I can understand that Borghild Tenden and the Left are a little surprised that I am running so hard on being punctual. But some of the reason why that's actually because this government has paid $10 billion to trains this year. We have increased the permissions every year. Then I think it's right for us to make demands on the NSB and the Railway Agency that now they get the hunting game sharpened – now they get to see that things slip, and that people can trust that the train is coming. That's the answer we can give, because we've made money. That the trend in position could not set the requirements, because they did not allow money for it – yes, I understand that. But for SV, who is in government, and the government party, it's like when we give an organisation more money to drive trains, through the railway station or the NSB, we demand something in return. That's what we do. Then I totally agree with the representative Tenden that we can't talk about 2012. We have to deliver the results now. The NSB and the RU must now deliver results. They've got the money. They have been given everything they have pointed out – in the action package and in the budget – to investing in new train sets. Then it's their job to deliver results, so the travelers will be satisfied. Now they've got the money they've asked for, by the red-green government, unlike what they got from the government that left was part of, and they also complained that they had so little money. Yes, but glory! If you don't allow money, and one in a way doesn't require anything, it can't be better. It had become 2020 with the Left in government. It's definitely seen from my stand. For the government, and especially for SV, it is at least to bet on trains to take the climate challenges seriously – it is to do something about traffic noise and local pollution, it is to do something about traffic accidents, to reduce road accidents, and it is to make better room for business on the road, so that they can make more money, so that climate problems become less. I am very pleased that we have managed to bring the red-green government up to this level. So I just have to say to the Left that I don't recommend them to spend the money on tax havens to people when they're in government, but use the money on infrastructure on the railway, not on nationalists – people are doing well. But that's what the previous government, right in the head and left on the tow, prioritised. It wasn't the environment, climate and trains that were prioritised; it was tax havens for people who had enough money from before.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1609	I just had to take the word now, because I was so impressed. The representative tenden said it was too small for the railway, it was too late, etc. I guess that's okay. But then there was too little working three hours in the tunnel, so I thought maybe the railroad company had called to get some good advice on whether it might be five hours, and whether she could think of being a little engaged in the consulting business. Then I have to say that it is never too late to be after-clock. The representative Tenden had a party colleague from the Left who was Minister of Transport – I don't remember the name on the move. It didn't go so fast in the swings of appropriations in the previous period, either. I just remember it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1616	Two things: this is a message to look forward to. One goes into the result that's the starting point for looking forward. That's the numbers we know, from 2008. There is considerable activity in our neighbouring countries – I will not address that debate – but there are also significant deficits associated with it. It'll cost almost 100 million. to operate in Sweden and Denmark. Where the activities of the NSB also have significant contributions from property development, which is quite far from railway activities and transport activities, there is reason to question the strategy. That's what the Progress Party does. So I'd like to focus a little bit more on what I was in the line exchange, the capacity utilisation. It's with respect to report badly. I think we can immediately say it so that an airline that has a cabin factor of 30 pst. would have died quite quickly. Thus, two out of three seats are empty – it is a complete picture of passenger traffic on trains for a variety of types of trains. Equally full, it is alarmingly low and gives cause for concern. There is reason to look at the strategy — what to do, what action the company is taking to get more people to travel by train. Let me immediately add and underline that trains that are running, of course, are far more important than trains that are standing, and that the fact that trains are running is related to getting passengers on the train. Equally full is the starting point, in 2008 – it was last year – 31 pst. exploitation of the existing material. So here there's a significant potential for improvement, even in terms of the strategy that the company itself draws up in answer to questions about this, namely that they don't even reach 40 pst. at the end of 2013, which is the time perspective contained in the notification. With respect to reporting, it's too weak. Here, a more offensive approach is expected to be taken to measures that are necessary to fill capacity, fill seats, which are actually expected to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1627	The representative Borghild Tende has held the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1630	I will not extend this debate significantly, but when the representative Hallgeir H. Langeland again boasts about the use of money, I think he should look a little at Left's alternative budgets in the last four years. That's where we've actually re-prioritized and spent $1 billion per. years more than the Stoltenberg government. That's what I said in my article. So we're going to come back to the priority debate when NTP is going to be dealt with in a few days.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1637	It was quite polite to listen to Mr Langeland's speech, because at least there is no doubt that Langeland mixed quite well with what is being talked about. What we are really discussing now is the business plan for the NSB – and not necessarily for the Railway Agency. But I think it was at least that the representative Langeland was most concerned about. He claimed that the NSB would be required to deliver. But if you look directly at what the NSB has received from funds over the last four-year period that the representative of Langeland has been sitting on the Stortinget, it's probably not necessarily now that you should jump on the roof. I think I agree that you can discuss, but then you have to go in and look at some investment projects and some other types of things. But I still have to go back to the package of measures. When you're so busy pretending that you've given so much money, and you have a level of ambition and a demand back to the railway station, I don't think it was so great and nice when you've had almost four years, that when the package of measures comes, you can cough up projects for over 100 million. kr or something like that – in the overview we finally got, after the Council of State had chosen to keep secret the recordings from the Railway Agency and the State Road Service, which were withheld. So when I listen to the representative Langeland and everything you've managed to do in these four years, I don't think it's that great. It's really very small, and it's very little ambitious. But I understand that Langeland now has a huge explanation problem, because he's sitting as part of a government that's trying to make it look like you've done so much. But it's done a little bit with respect to the NSB. So I don't think exactly you should boast so much that you've been overambisious in granting the money NSB needs. It was actually such that the Council of State had to raise one's errand to the Notodden to sit on a train there and grant 8 million. NOK extra, after the state budget had been submitted. After that there was a lot of speculation about that 8 million. I had not come in, so the council had to go down with this money – I'm sorry, it was 6 million. kr, it was even worse. I don't think it's exactly answering the requirements that NSB has had. As NSB says, they like to run as many trains as the Storting will, if only the Storting is willing to give enough money to them to do it. I am pleased to hear the representative Langeland now answer how he thinks it is so great that you have given all the answers requested by the NSB – with the 6 million. I am not even able to deliver in the State budget, but I have to wait for the revised budget, which we are going to discuss later this month, to find it out. That they should also be removed from June 2010 is interesting. I don't think there's a lot of respect for all the amazing bets from the red-green government at the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1652	I think this is a very nice debate, because this is actually going to be a competition in who wants to bet the most on the railway, a cross-political competition for who wants to do the most on the railway, has done the most, and will do the most in the future. The sum of this is simply that there is a great will in this room to bet on rail as an environmentally friendly, efficient and safe means of transport in the future. It is no longer since the previous period that I was attending a meeting with the railway company and the NSB, where the railway company said quite clearly that the Stortinget had to decide soon what one wants with the railway. One said that the situation is now so that an eventually simply has to lay down some lines, because there are no permissions for them. Then we can have a similar meeting with the Railway Agency and the NSB now, and one means that there is an optimism and willingness to bet on the railway that you haven't had before. I record for the first time that the Right has become a very railway friendly party, but for the second – and that may be the most special – that also the Progress Party is much more eager now to talk nice about the railway bet than before. What we're discussing is the owner's message for the NSB, which is a state limited liability company. It's very important that the NSB operates efficiently. The issue of postponing competition has been raised here, perhaps to press the NSB to operate even more efficiently. It's kind of interesting about the Gjøvik track that it was the NSB that won that offer. It shows me that the NSB has a potential for efficiency improvement. Many of the rail routes that go buy the state – we pay for them – and in those negotiations, the State must be able to impose the same efficiency requirements as it is in the event of a competitive outsourcing. But one doesn't have to go the way of putting up competition to get it done. I thought the Blackevik representative was busy with an important point, that's the capacity utilization, which is 31 pst, and here it's probably possible to do a lot of things. Some of the reasons why it is simply that we have pressed through state purchases to get frequent train departures, maybe rigid hourly routes, etc. As a weekly commuter, I at least experience that the train is largely crowded. But there are some of these train routes on which there are very few passengers. I'm sure there's an NSB here. through its pricing policy, stimulating more people to use the routes that are little used. Here's a potential that I think it's right that we're now pointing out when we're discussing the owner's message for the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1663	There has been an interesting debate on competitive outsourcing or state ownership. I do not think I have yet received a good answer as to why we should change something that is good. What I have recorded in the comments on the case from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left, is that they say that ‘– one of the main objectives of separating the NSB as its own traffic company was to increase the freedom of the NSB to prioritise on a commercial basis. In addition, the country would purchase services from the NSB’. In addition, they say that: ‘– The NSB itself is best placed to assess which measures should be taken to best achieve the objective of the operation and that the development of the activities of the NSB should therefore not be detailed by the Stortinget’. There are comments in relation to it with ownership. I have also registered that the same parties want to give the Railway Agency the same freedom through state enterprises or by privatising the Railway Agency. At the same time, I hear in the debate the representative Tenden's desire to control in detail how work in the Oslo tunnel is to be done, to work three hours at night – or there are other alternatives. Then I believe that the policy that these parties – or at least the Left Tende – will pursue towards these businesses is not entirely in line. It may seem that only ideology is behind it, and that it is the allergy to state ownership that turns out in full flower. We have also heard that there are allergies in different areas – both against state ownership, which some have, and against privatisation, as it is claimed that we others have. I would also like to point out to the debate on how we can demand improved punctuality for the NSB: as I see it, it is part of state ownership that we are just demanding the NSB as a state-owned enterprise that they operate – which is good – improves, especially in terms of punctuality. We've seen, not least in the last year, especially in the Oslo area, that this can be done. What is important in relation to making demands on the NSB is that, when a situation arises, we provide good information to passengers and that information on alternative transport is provided, such as: The flight is doing very well, as it's pointed out here. In addition, I would like to challenge the NSB to put more emphasis on better marketing and information about the future railway – when it is now that we have had some challenges in the last year – so that we can see that after 2012, the rail service can be even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1684	It's true, as the representative Hoksrud from the Progress Party said, that I was a little unfurnished in my summary when it was about the train's licenses. It's right that the NSB has $4 billion for investments in trains. Well, I guess it's a little bit small for the Progress Party, but at least it shows that the NSB is a priority. But that it is the railway works that get the biggest money out of it, is quite correct – if this nuance is satisfactory, it is now committed. Over my 12 years at Stortinget, I have recorded that the Progress Party has changed its character when it comes to train betting. The background for that I don't know completely, but I do have my thoughts about it. Previously, a consistent cut in the purchase of passenger transport services through the NSB was cut. So now one comes out and divides us out because we don't give enough money to NSB. So this is an interesting development. I suggest that trains are not in the vicinity of the asphalt cowboys in the Progress Party – they should be on the road. When it comes to the piece, and one comes to the position once, I'm sure that the asphalt wins on all fronts – and that's one of the issues, because you don't have the climate problem at the bottom. So I think it's important when we have debates like this, about tolls and about budgets, to remind ourselves of what the Progress Party actually does when they're in power. When they're in opposition, it's crazy, because then they have money for everything. But when they come into position, what happens then – in Oslo? No, in Oslo they ask the Storing for tolls when they get in position. And we're helping them get it done. And what does the Progress Party do when negotiating a budget with Mr Bondevik? Are they asking for more money for the railroad? On the contrary, the only thing they do when negotiating a budget is to jump away from all of their promises. When it comes to road booms, why hasn't the Progress Party taken away a single one when they've negotiated the budget? They could have taken 5 billion kroner and took away roadblocks, but they haven't. And they didn't add anything to trains. It's getting exciting -- I hope you don't ever see the Progress Party coming in the position -- to see how easy a jump from its uplifts is when you really have the ability to act. And it's going to be exciting to see if an actual change of policy at the train trip, when one understands that this is something that most people want. That is what we see with the Progress Party today too – but it has been a good debate!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1695	It was a moment this debate was just as little about the NSB as the debate on Vossapakko was about Voss. Then Torstein Rudihagen came on the track, and then we were on the track again. And then I tracked it down when the case-rapporteur got the floor – he was going to talk about anything other than the NSB. Irene Johansen was concerned that she had not received an answer as to why you should put off competition when things went so well with the NSB. That answer gave Torstein Rudihagen in the post before. Torstein Rudihagen made a good contribution, pointing out that NSB Anbud AS, as it was then called, won the competition for the offer on Gjøvikbanen. So NSB Anbud AS, now called Gjøvikbanen AS, has a clear increase in production by 40 pst, so more take-offs at the same price as the one before. Let's check the air fares between Oslo and Trondheim, and Oslo and Bergen before and after Norwegian got on the track and SAS got competition. Let's check the telecommunications prices from the time Telenor – or Telewerket – had monopoly versus when it was open to competition. That's this one that's our point, and that's a total opposition point. I do not include Rudihagen in that reasoning, but he was at least concerned that competition could stimulate more efficient operation. That's our starting point, and that's how it really is in most areas of this country. Whether it is in the Business Committee or it is in other committees dealing with matters, competition is usually an advantage when it comes to providing an important service. NSB is doing a good job, and I think most people here have underlined it. The main challenge lies in factors other than the NSB when, for example: on punctuality. But that does not mean that they cannot do an even better job, and that we as passengers can get an even better offer if there are more players who can join in and bid. When the Council of State used its intervention to say that there was a size that was the advantage of having a train monopoly on passenger traffic, it is not entirely appropriate either because both the Gjøvik Railway, which has been mentioned, and the Flytrain are exceptions to this rule. There are two of the most successful railway companies, not just here in the country, because here we have not so many, but generally. It actually shows that competition is healthy and that competition is good. Therefore, we should open up in order to launch more routes for the benefit of passengers and also for the benefit of the NSB, which will have something to go after.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1708	In my view, we have ended up in a somewhat strange debate – a kind of world championship – about who has got the most money for transportation, without at all putting it into a framework considering the economic situation that was, and that is, and what has happened along the way. I am fully aware that the previous national transport plan was presented by a minority government adapted to the economic situation we were in. This was a minority government, and the opposition merged and added NOK 2 billion. Very good! The Christian People's Party has been there and has put exactly the same money on the table. The situation has changed. The possibility of spending more money without risking the Norwegian economy came – we are in a completely different economic situation today. Then we've had a play over a new NTP. The Christian People's Party was the first party to say, "We want a 40 pst." increase in relation to the previous NTP. Then Langeland was out and said, "You didn't get it in position, but when you're in opposition, you get it done." I think it was a good idea to drag the sitting majority government up, based on what rates I heard in the beginning. But the economic situation is a completely different one. You brought 45 pst, and we've celebrated it. We're adding 45 percent to our alternate budgets. Yeah, we do what you did last time, we put something more back. That's the situation. I don't understand this debate about a world championship in terms of who put in the most, when the reality is that in principle we've put the same amount on the table – at least when you look at what the government parties and the Christian People's Party have put in place there. We want a state oath and a strong NSB, but we want competition, because competition inspires. We have said that the Kongswingerbahn could be one of the alternatives to putting off competition. The NSB must take that distance. It was just supposed to be missing! If they're the best, they'll take it. If other companies come in, they get a test, and then we'll see if it leads to a further development of the offers for those travelling by rail. I think we'll see when we deal with the National Transport Plan, that we'll agree on what the future will look like.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1722	First of all, just so that the representative Trond Helleland for the future will not be told that I am unilaterally for economies of scale and against the Gjøvik Railway: let me remind you of the current situation, namely, that the capacity is detonated in large parts of the railway network. Then it is a significant advantage that the train can be integrated so that the capacity can be used as best as possible. Then we can enjoy the Gjøvik track, and what happens there. But it is also important to take into account that there they were able to increase production significantly without growth in costs. They could do that. They developed a scheme of so-called rigid squares. So: Instead of trains and additions taking breaks for periods of low traffic, the train runs smoothly all day long. What does that mean? This means, of course, that the offer is easier for travellers. The principle is therefore no priority in the development of the large agreement with NSB AS. The agreement on the Gjøvikban is valid for 10 years. In the four-year framework agreement between the State and the NSB, 15 pst have been agreed. increase in output at the same price as before. In the context of the launch of the Gjøvik Railway, several stations were agreed to be closed in dialogue with regional authorities. It reduces running time and costs. It increases the company's income base, but not all locals are equally happy about it. Here is a set of requirements that it is important to be aware of in the future, both in terms of punctuality, universal design, information and service. Finally, I would like to point out the chapter that is called NSB's social responsibility. There is something about the cross-cutting concerns that the NSB must also take care of, whether it is about the experience and the knowledge it has in connection with migration, R & D, the environment, HMS, ethics and social security. I have to say that it has been interesting to participate in and listen to this debate, and I record that there is an increasing commitment in this room to bet on the NSB and all their tasks in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1735	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 14 – and thus the train has passed. [[Footing, see page 3261]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1751	No one has asked for the floor. Thorbjørn Jagland reinstated here the president's office. [[Footing, see page 3262]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1763	The size now goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1918	In Case No: 11 and 12 no voting theme is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1925	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The size consents to the construction of the projects on Rv 13 and E16 as described in St.prp. No 61 and with a race-retardant tunnel. [[2008-2009]] The size assumes that the development is fully financed by the state. The Ministry of Transport is authorised, through the Directorate of Roads, to raise the necessary loans in order to implement the development. State funding is incorporated into the 2009 Revised National Budget.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1958	In the course of the debate, seven proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-3, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 4, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and Christian People's Party proposals no. 5 and 6, by Mr Bård Hoksrud, on behalf of the Party of Advancement and Right-wing Proposal No. 7, from Bård Hoksrud on behalf of the Progress Party First of all, there is a vote on proposal No. 7 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to file a State sale and listing of NSB during 2009.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e1987	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 5 and 6, from the Advancement Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e2010	There is a vote on proposal No. 4, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the compilation of statistics on both direct and indirect energy consumption, as well as direct and indirect CO2 emissions, in order to give a proper picture of railway energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e2027	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3 from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e2072	There is a vote on proposals by the representatives of the Grand Duchy of Per Sandberg on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted from the meeting of the Odelstinget on 26 May 2009: ‘The Government requests the necessary legislative and regulatory changes to change the upper age limit of 70 years for taxi runs in line with all the other groups involved in the transport of persons or goods in professional and/or acquisition circumstances.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-02.ana.ud386e2200	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
