ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e77	Honourable co-representatives! Former Mayor of the Workers' Party, Olaf Island is dead, 83 years old. A long working day and a burning political commitment are over. Olaf Island started its professional life as a forest worker and line worker at the NSB in the war years. He actively participated in the home strengths and received the Delta Medal for it. Later he took part in the German Brigade. According to the Hallingdølen newspaper, Olaf Island's name will be permanently linked to industrial expansion in the municipality of Nes. He was the rapporteur of the Labour Party there from 1963 and for ten years. It was in these years the modern Nes grew up, with industrial, tourist, residential and waterworks expansion. It was getting jobs that was job number one for the Olaf Island. Today, the results of his efforts can be seen in the form of safe and good jobs in his home municipality. It is said that Olaf Island is the individual who has been the most important member of the municipality in the last 50 years. After meeting as an alternate at Stortinget for many years, he became a permanent representative from 15 January 1976 until the fall of 1989, i.e. for 14 years and one day. During this period he was a member of the Committee on Agriculture, Defence and Transport. He got involved in a number of issues, such as hydroelectric expansion in Veig and Dagali, Hardangervidda National Park, Oslo and Bergen, Dagali Airport and Torpo Home Security School. What he might be most remembered for was when, as the case-rapporteur for the new main airfield, he spoke his party in the middle of the opposite. Then Olaf also got the island's place selection for the new main airfield, Hurum, a dramatic majority on the Stortinget in the first place, even though it ended with the Gardermo. The wounds of the intrusive flight path in 1988 were never completely cured. Olaf Island was never completely finished and reconciled with the most active opponents of the Hurum option. The island of Olaf will be remembered in retrospect as a national and district policy. However, he was also concerned with foreign policy, and was among other things. Delegate to the UN General Assembly. In April 1980 Olaf and Minister of Defence Thorvald Stoltenberg traveled on an observation tour in South Lebanon. There he witnessed the attack of the Israeli-supported Major Haddad on the civilian population and on the UN forces. The Norwegian delegation itself experienced protection. After this episode, Olaf Island was very concerned about the Middle East conflict, and reported out of Israel's friends here on the Storting. Everyone who knew the island of Olaf knows that he was an energetic, willful, and powerful man, a politician who fought for what he believed in, always with straight back and blank weapons. In addition to all the things that Olaf Island purposefully and energetically engaged in at Stortinget, he also became an effective door opener for many halls and a man who still spoke the Busherud case. After the time of Stortinget, he went back to municipal and district policies with special emphasis on older people’s policies. Olaf Island was a result-oriented politician. He went straight ahead if necessary. He never wrapped his opinions into cotton. That's why he was perceived by his political opponents as being a hard nail, but at the same time those who knew him say that he was a liberal and jovial man. We remember the island of Olaf for his work on the Great One, and shine peace upon his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e100	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Advance Party Group to the representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos from 19 February onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Tove Nyhus, is called to meet during the period of leave. Tove Nyhus is elected to Lagtinget for the time she meets the representative of Kari Kjønaas Kjos.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e121	Tove Nyhus is present and will take the seat. The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e126	On behalf of the representatives Per Sandberg, Ib Thomsen, Tord Lien and myself, it is a pleasure to make proposals for necessary legislative changes so that the State Road Administration and other state actors have to pay a procedural fee in line with private actors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e131	The representative, Per-Willy Amundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e134	On behalf of the representatives Siv Jensen, Åge Starheim, Ib Thomsen and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal to strengthen the employer's right to manage uniform and clothing and to prevent the creation of special rights for specific groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e139	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e155	It is with amazement that I in several media today can read the answer from Navarsette on today's interpellation. It merges in my opinion into countless examples that this government does not take the Storting seriously. I had believed that the minister had an interest in listening to the Stortinges view before it was finally drawn to the conclusion in this case. But both NRK Nordland and Harstad Tidende know the answer before Stortinget is informed. Navarsete says she wants to listen to the County Committee of North Norway, and that's good, but not the Stortinget. This is serious in itself, but the solutions that we are proposed through the media have far more serious consequences. Riksvej 1 along the coast, the fast route, has a long and proud history. It was Captain and Captain Richard With who got the idea to start a fixed ship's route along the coast, which was to go both night and day – a bold experiment, many thought. This was in 1893, but the idea was viable – we know that today. But today the Hurtigruten sails in harsh weather. The concept, as we know it, is in danger of disappearing. The company is in a distressed situation, and the economic foundation of the operation is uncertain. The state has always played an important role in the operation of the fast route, and it is a national responsibility to ensure that the concept can live on. In 1893, there was a subsidy for the high-speed route, at NOK 15 000. Today we're talking about millions, and reality is more complicated. Several measures need to be taken. That is why I think it is necessary for the Stortinge to take up the debate on the future of the rapid transit system. It's urgent to clarify. We can't let the fast route sail on the ground. In 1893, D/S Vesteraalen left Trondheim on the first fast route northward towards Hammerfest. 115 years later, a total of 34 cities and agglomerations benefit and enjoy the ships sailing the Bergen-Kirkenes route. Through 115 years of operation, in good weather and storm, the fast route has gone northward and southwards evenly and steadily. Yes, it has become an institution and an important part of the infrastructure along the coast. For freight and passenger transport, the fast route is invaluable. It is also a great tourist magnet. As I mention in my interpellation, “Lonely Planet” has characterized the fast route as “the world’s best boat trip”. And last Sunday, February 15, we could read a very interesting travel account in The New York Times. The renowned journalist Paul Schneider had chosen the fast route in front of the Caribbean cruise, and he did not repent! The boat trip he described as magical and epic. Yes, better Norwegian advertising we'll be looking for a long time. The fast route confirms its position as Norway's most famous brand in the world. So the fast route is not just the proud boats that sail along the coast, it is a tourist magnet. The rapid route generated by values is much more than what appears in company accounts. But the fast route doesn't just offer beautiful experiences for the tourists. Considerable quantities of goods go with the fast route. In 2007, a total of 134 000 tonnes of freight calculation weight went on the high-speed route. It is equivalent to 10000 trailers kept away from small country roads along the coast. The fast route continued in 2007 with more than 370,000 distance passengers and well over 400,000 guest days and over 38 000 cars on board. For many fishing communities, especially in North Norway, the transport of fish by fast route constitutes the only dangerous road in winter time. There is a cross-political agreement that we need to get more freight from road to rail and sea. The daily arrival of the fast route in the north and south is a very important tool to get to that very point. We also need to remember that the fast route maintains a unique port structure along the coast, and many jobs will be lost if more of these ports have to enter the years. I'm glad that the Government has granted 125 million to change the budget for 2008. kr in immediate action. There was compensation for the NOx fee for the first half of the year, and also a general financial compensation to ensure that the service offer is maintained in line with the current agreement. The Christian People's Party is happy about that, even though it came a little bit lately. Hurtigruten ASA is a listed company and not owned by the State. But there is no doubt that without the agreement that Hurtigruten has had with the state, there had not been a fast route. The State and the Council of State have the primary responsibility for the future fate of the fast route. There can be no doubt about that. That's also the background for my interpellation here today. I have had difficulty believing that the Council of State of Navarsete would be aware of being the Council of State that let Hurtigruten sail its own sea, but there, according to the media today, it may actually look like I've taken completely wrong. I do not disclaim the company's liability, far from it. But we should remember that Hurtigruten has really taken responsibility. They are in the process of restructuring how they operate the company itself, concentrating on the core business, i.e. the fast route along the coast, and selling out other businesses. It's good that the Hurtigruten does this. The company should, of course, take its tower. I record that the Hurtigruten ASA itself is of the opinion that the agreement with the State cannot continue in its present form. I therefore take note that it is now necessary to make a new call for proposals for the Bergen–Kirkenes section, and the Christian People's Party has a clear view of the new call for tenders. Now that we are faced with a new bidding round, I will establish some particularly clear and important requirements that I am asking the Council of State to note: The Christian People's Party will maintain today's sailing pattern. Clear requirements for large freight capacity must be imposed on all boats. All must have onboard refrigerating and freezing facilities, and goods must be given priority in front of cars that accompany tourists on their journey. In the opinion of the Christian People's Party, cut in sailing days in winter is out-of-date. This will weaken the position of a fast-track freight forwarder. Combined with storms, this may result in a fast-track crossing of certain ports so often that freight transport is shifted to the road, contrary to other priorities. There must be clear requirements for transport standards, and the Christian People's Party agrees that this could lead to demands for greater State aid. Otherwise, I have to say that I do not like the signals provided by the National Subcommittee of Northern Norway. In the view of the Christian People's Party, it cannot be the task of the National Committee to send signals that North Norway is satisfied with a strongly reduced sailing pattern. I've read through the recordings that the County Committee has received from the coastal municipalities in North Norway, where there is a unisoned message about maintaining today's route offers. In my opinion, the position of the National Subcommittee is not in line with either the wishes of the business community or the will of the people in North Norway. I had hoped that a Central Party government council had more than demonstrated the ability to listen to the people's will in District Norway, but at that time one, according to the media. Navar seats will cut calls in winter; yes, the fast route shall be operated with profitability. I ask: is it profitable for whom – for the company or for the state? Is intercity traffic in the eastern part of the country economically operated by the State? No, of course not! This is reflected in a trend of the red-green government, which has completely gone away from the promises made to North Norway when the North Region Strategy was presented in Tromsø in 2006. Let me conclude with the following summary: The purpose of the government's purchase of maritime transport services is to ensure daily and full-year sailing patterns for the fast route between Bergen and Kirkenes. This concept has to continue. The State has the primary responsibility to ensure this in the future. It is good that the Government has contributed the necessary immediate measures to meet the short-term challenges. But let me finally ask the following questions: How does the Council of State view the fast-track concept, as we know it today? Can it be preserved and developed so that we can continue to ensure the daily sailing of the Bergen–Kirkenes in the future? And, importantly, can the State Council confirm that the Stortinget will have the opportunity to decide on the tender concept before the call for tender takes place?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e212	I must initially take a considerable distance from the attack from the representative Jan Sahl in relation to the headlines in Norwegian newspapers. These observations are based on discussions in relation to my participation in the Northern Central Party's County Annual Meeting last weekend. The center part is occupied by the hotspot. The centre party was an important driver for no four-day sailing in the previous bidding round, as the Bondevik II government suggested as an alternative. It would be strange if this important theme were not taken up in connection with the county annual meeting in the Northern Central Party. It has no connection with today's debate. I want to listen very carefully to the debate today, and take it into account in the work I am doing in the ministry. I have great respect for the Storting! The fast route has a long history, all the way back to 1893. The offer has ours and is important for people and businesses along the coast. That's why the public has for a long time bought transport services from the fast bus companies. At the end of 2001, a new five-year direct purchase agreement for maritime transport services was established from 2002. Under the EEA Agreement, this purchase had to be notified in ESA. ESA shortened the contractual period to three years, requiring any future purchases of services to be made after an open, verifiable and non-discriminatory process. It was also required that any future purchase be based on an assessment of the need for the public purchase of transport services on the route in question. Based on a standard transport analysis carried out by the Transport Economic Institute, the case was submitted to the Stortinget in December 2003. The Bondevik II administration considered that the transport standard could not be assessed independently of costs associated with the purchase of services. In view of this, two options were outlined for the service purchase. One option was to continue existing sailing patterns with year-round, continuous, day-to-day sailings from Bergen to Kirkenes. In addition, an alternative with a two-part solution with different capacity requirements south and north of Tromsø was outlined. This option added up to four sailings per week. The majority of the population on its side wanted to maintain existing sailing patterns with year-round, continuous, day-to-day sailings of Bergen–Kirkenes. On this basis, the Bergen–Kirkenes coastal route was the focus of competition in the autumn of 2004. The competition resulted in only one offer, which came from the existing fast route companies OVDS and TFDS, which later merged into what is now called Hurtigruten ASA. Agreements between the Ministry of Transport and the high-speed rail companies were concluded in December 2004 for the period 2005 to 2012. Under this agreement, the State purchases maritime transport services on the route between Bergen and Kirkenes for a total of 1899.7 million. 2005-kronor. The company committed itself on its side to day-to-day sailings throughout the year between Bergen and Kirkenes during the term of the agreement. The company would also offer freight capacity between Tromsø and Kirkenes. The Ministry and the company held negotiations on the revision of the agreement in 2007 and 2008. The background to the negotiations was changes in the framework conditions. It is the debt that is known as the introduction of the NOx tax, but also the reintroduction of a differentiated employer’s fee, which this government has got in place. The government has been particularly busy ensuring the competitive situation of the Hurtigruten in relation to foreign cruisers. Therefore, some of the crew have been included in the net pay scheme since 2007. This strengthens the company by approximately NOK 90 million. This year. The company on its side also withdrew development of fuel costs from the negotiations. As the interpellant is well aware, even the negotiations that the company received a further 125 million. KR autumn 2008. The licences were a compensation for the NOx tax, but also a general compensation resulting from the difficult financial situation of the company. In the context of local governance, the additional agreement also opened so that the Hurtigruten can take out a ship from operation in winter. I record that the company has also stated in the media that it is well-accompanied with the agreement. I have to admit that I have been concerned about the situation in the company, and I am very satisfied that both the owners and creditors have set up more capital and better terms after the agreement with the state came into place – and it was dependent on the agreement being put in place. The fast route ASA informed in a stock exchange announcement last August that it could not stand by the existing agreement. In view of this, the Ministry is in the process of redeploying the service as soon as it is advisable, in view of the start of a new agreement before the expiry of the current agreement in 2012. In this work, it is important to identify the need for local and regional trips on the coastal route. It'll be the starting point for the service outsourcing. The Ministry of Transport has asked for any input into the future sailing pattern from the current counties, the County Committee of North Norway and Namdalen and the Council of the West. The deadline for this to expire in these days. On the basis of the existing agreement and the input from the hearing bodies, an assessment of the future nature of the supply will be made. It applies to capacity, frequency and stop pattern requirements. Different options will have to be considered, including: in the light of expected resource use requirements, in the same way as the Bondevik II facility did. I feel that I have a good dialogue with the county councils involved in the matter. And I'd like to commend all the state politicians who are involved in the demanding process of looking at how supply can be developed without costing too high, yet ensuring a robust and efficient fast route supply to people and businesses along the coast. It requires political courage to address such issues. I find that local and regional politicians in North Norway and along the west coast have the necessary courage and ability to think constructively about what will best affect the coast in the short term and in the long term. Increased flexibility for the company, as a selection of the National Sub-Committee has come down to, needs to be assessed not only to reduce costs but also to strengthen the income base of the tourism industry in order to reduce the need for government purchases. The Hurtigruten ASA currently operates a two-part production where commercial tourism production is dominant. The state purchase is viewed and shown as an additional production, although there is an important basis for the operation of the fast route. It has been a challenge to know where the commercial supply ends and where the public purchase is going. It will also be in the field of postponing competition this time. The role of the Ministry of Transport is limited to the part of the production that deals with the purchase of local and regional passenger services by the State and to clarify the obligation to offer capacity for goods. This restriction must be made in order for it to be in line with the existing legislation for the purchase of services. After the completion of the purchase process, the service will be encouraged to compete in the EEA territory. Quick route 1 in Norway. It is a supply that has existed for a long, long time and is still linked to security of emergence and to important business and shore-side business services. It is too important a theme to become a political game. I hope that today's debate will show the same political courage and the same constructive will for dialogue in this Chamber as local and regional politicians from Bergen to the Church show. I'll listen carefully to the debate and the suggestions and recordings that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e246	I thank Minister of Transport Navarsete for the answer, and would just like to stress that I am not initially in a position to know when the various statements were made. They are referred to in the NRK Nordland and in the Harstad Official Journal today, tied up against my interpellation. My reaction on the morning today was that I perceived this as an answer to my interpellation. I now understand what the minister says, that it is not. Of course, I take note of that and hope that we can have a constructive debate beyond that. So I'm going to ask Navarsete if she stands by the statements she's referred to after the county annual meeting in the Nordland Centerparti, where the NRK writes the following: ‘The traffic between Bergen and the churches must be profitable,’ said Minister for Transport Liv Signe Navarsete. [[Sp]] The last one surprises me a little bit, because the County Committee of Northern Norway represents three county municipalities that have not yet made their decisions. In all three counties, this case is highly topical now at the first meeting of the new year, which is largely in February for all three Northern Norwegian county municipalities. I hope the Minister will listen to the signals coming from there. Furthermore, I got no answer as to whether the government would add up that we get a proposition before this is put out for tender – as the previous government did. When there are major changes in the offer, I think there should be a matter that is being debated in the Stortinget. Then I also believe that the Storting in the previous round showed its responsibility consciously and made an independent decision. I was the personal rapporteur on the matter. It turned out that a total increase was in favour of the fast route offer that we have today, after a strong commitment in the hall. I hope we're still going to be able to have that commitment here, and then we'll see where we end up eventually. For the Christian People's Party, it is extremely important, as I stressed in my introduction, that there is no cutting in the sailing pattern in winter, especially given that the result of it will be that the fishing industry will very much move the goods from sea to road. It is contrary to what has been signaled by others when it comes to taking care of the environment in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e266	Once again, I have to state that the recording with NRK was done last Saturday in Bodø. But put that aside. It's an important matter we're discussing here today. I simply forgot to comment that of course Stortinget will have debates. If this option is affected, it must be submitted for Size before the offer expires, in the same way as the last one. It should only be lacking that such an important matter should not be discussed in this room. When it comes to the District Selection, it's made up of the three most northern states. Even if they haven't been in charge, I assume that the county selection has discussed this matter carefully, and the county selection or county council, as it is also in a state, is based on most of the parties. The recordings that come in must wait is well anchored in the political environment of the three Nordic states. I have also met with the other county councils that are not in the Landesdelsselecten, and I try to have a good dialogue with them too, because it is clear that this offer is very important in Northern Norway, but it is also important along the whole coast down to Bergen. We have a strong desire to get more goods on the road and more goods on the road. This is reflected in the government's policy, and in this context, of course, the fast route is also a very important offer. I must also remind you that the reason Hurtigruten came into the current situation is not initially the agreement with the State. One could implement the agreement with much less tonnage than the Hurtigruten has invested in. There are elections made by the board of directors and the leadership of the Hurtigruten, and there are elections that they are responsible for – and take responsibility for. They've never tried to talk away from it. Now, when we're going to design a new offer, it's about getting an offer that people along the coast can take advantage of and be happy with. It is not so long since the representative Sahl was a member of a government party, and then he knows – which was also very clear in the proposal from the Bondevik II government – that one of course has to consider the economic situation. That's what the Bondevik II government did, and I'm obliged to do as manager of the community's funds. But a good supply along the coast I'm very busy. I am absolutely sure that through a good work ahead we will have the ability to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e281	I am pleased with the great commitment that is out there to keep the fast route as a very important carrier and as a tourist magnet for Norway. The interpellant makes many important arguments in this interpellation. At the same time, the interpellant has made some statements to the press that amazes me. According to the press, the interpellant believes that today's government has shown very little initiative to save the fast route, especially in the last two years. The interpellant should know that the sitting government has taken many important steps to save the fast route. Let me, like the Council of State, mention some examples. In 2006, a net wage system was adopted which helped to make the fast route much more competitive in terms of coastal tourist traffic from Bergen to Kirkenes. This scheme entered into force on 1 July 2007 and has helped to ensure that the fast route has managed to maintain its role as a very important travel product. The net pay scheme involves approx. One hundred million. kr annually i plus for the company, which significantly improves the competitive situation. The interpellant should know that in 2008, as the Council of State said, the government contributed 125 million. kr to improve the operational situation of the Hurtigruten so that it can maintain sailing patterns and existing calls. I think this clearly shows that the interpellant is wrong in his criticism of what the Government has done in this context. The interpellant should not forget that almost exactly five years ago, the government presented Bondevik with a proposal that provided an alternative to breaking up the sailing patterns of the fast route. As I remember, this meant a kind of route offer from Bergen to Tromsø and a much lower route offer from Tromsø to Kirkenes. This proposal resulted in strong reactions from the inhabitants along the coast and from us as at the time of the opposition. As you know, this ended with the fact that the then government parties also voted against the proposal of their own government. So what the interpellant just said, I feel quite strongly rewritten. I dare not think of what had happened if this option had not been so repressively downgraded. Then we would hardly have needed this debate and this interpellation that the representative Sahl has promoted. I therefore think that the interpellant should have praised the sitting government instead of criticising it. Now the Council of State has invited to cooperation and dialogue. That's what we need on behalf of the people of the coast. I share the view of the inter-pellant that it must now be long-term and secure about the future of the fast-track route. For many coastal communities, the fast route is the most important transport offer for both people and goods. In fact, for these communities, the fast route is even more important than the train is for those who have access to this means of transport. I can't imagine a situation where sailing patterns and calls are cut that affect those coastal communities that are most in need of the fast route. It would do irreparable damage to both business and housing if that were to happen. Nor should we forget that for many small coastal communities fast access is essential for the operation of ports. I would also like to strongly warn against a change in sailing and approach patterns that may have negative consequences for the fast route as a travel life product. We must not forget that when tourists come to Norway, it is not just to travel by fast route and to see beautiful nature, but at least as much to see large and small living coastal communities where the cultural landscape is in claim and where it is life and touch. By weakening the transport offer and the whole of the fast route, the tourist magnet can also be destroyed. I have great faith that the Council of State and the Government will do everything possible to take into account both the districts and the tourism industry in this context. We also need the fast route in the years to come, something else can be precious to the nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e300	Let me first just start by saying that I fully agree with the previous speaker on the criticism of the Bondevik government – where the Christian People's Party was involved – because if what the Bondevik government proposed five years ago had been adopted, we would not have had a fast route today. So I think the interpellant has the courage when he raises this debate, and especially when he manages to forget the history of the Christian People's Party in this matter. There are many themes that have been raised in the Quick Access panel. I will comment on some of them, among others. the amended pattern of sailing. I think the most important thing you can say, if you're going to go into these kinds of thoughts, is that the agreement you have today has to be renegotiated. And then I think you have to decide what the quick way is. Should this be what the fast route is today: an important coastal carrier in both local and regional traffic and goods, or should it be a tourist boat? Of course, it's important to combine these two things, but if you're going to do it, the concern for the local population and the business needs to go first, and then the tourists can come. You can't do the opposite, because then it becomes an incomplete service for business. If such changes are to be made, they should also be consistent with what this would mean for coastal communities. As I assess the situation today, it is important that you have a sailing pattern that today, with daily calls along the coast. The Hurtigruten has a long history – and a lot of good and proud history. The company has been running very well for many, many decades, and unfortunately there was a period some years ago when the company was not operated so well. They have also had owners who, in my view, have been bad owners, who have not made demands for management, who have joined in the path that the former management of the Hurtigruten has taken. I think you can see the consequences of today, and this new management, which I have more faith in, has taken over a company in a full storm at sea. I think that's a strenuous exercise. The situation of the Hurtigruten is complex. What we can do here at Stortinget, and as previous governments could have done, is do something about the Hurtigruten framework conditions. I can mention something: you can do something about the fuel costs. There has been no willingness to do anything from this government, nor from previous governments. We in the Progress Party have made proposals in this Chamber on a proposal to cut the fuel tax, but it has been voted down every single time. This government was also able to introduce a NOx tax, which hit the company hard. Net pay arrangements have been put in place, i.e. half of the net pay scheme. If you wanted to, you could have a full net pay scheme. Former governments have also been absent. The fast route spends a lot of money on marketing abroad. We in the Progress Party have put forward a number of proposals in this Chamber that the country should use significantly more resources to market Norway as a tourist destination abroad. In connection with the last budget, we proposed NOK 1 billion more. If those proposals had been adopted, the situation for Hurtigruten could have been much better than it is today, because then there would not have been a need to spend so much money on marketing. So when you go on an interpellation and take part in the debate on the fast route and are concerned about this, you also have to think about the measures you could have taken to improve the framework conditions for the Hurtigruten. Then I have also noticed that some people in SV believe that the state is going to buy themselves into the Hurtigruten. I guess it's a proposal that's just out in the public room, and it's not being made in this room. So it's an argument for tricking the Norwegian people; you seem to have a different policy from what's real. But I also notice that companies are treated differently by this government. When SAS gets into financial trouble, the state spends 800 million dollars. kr by the company. So you treat the companies that you're part of, unlike, but at the same time you don't create good framework conditions for private companies, and I think that's unfortunate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e320	The representative of Sahl must be commended for putting a fast-track route on the agenda. There is no secret that the Hurtigruten wears heavily due to high indebtedness and a lot of unused capacity outside the summer months. An extraordinary general meeting will be held tomorrow, which is expected to confirm a new capital increase. After tough rounds with the Norwegian and international banks that are today the company's lenders, it has also succeeded in putting into place loan terms and conditions that the company can bear. For those of us who live along the trail, it is not possible to imagine the coast without a fast route on their daily journey north or south. For some smaller places on the coast, the fast route must be comparable to the umbilical cord, and be seen as indispensable as the charterer of people and goods. Fast route has long appeared as a lighthouse in the development of travel life in Fjord-Norway and North Norway. The importance of the tourism industry for employment is increasing and an important complement to primary industries, even outside cities and major agglomerations. As one of our strongest brands in the world, fast-tracking is important in the marketing of Norway as a tourist country — and creates ring-effects far beyond the individual ship. That is why the Right believes this is a good investment, and that it is totally unthinkable that the State should not set up and assume co-responsibility to ensure daily sailing from Bergen in the future. The quick route must be the closest we come to a national icon. ‘The world’s most beautiful sea voyage’ is unique, with close contact with wild nature and landscapes ranging from minute to minute, hour to hour and day to day. It is not accidental that the fast route on the Bergen–Churches route has been repeatedly praised as one of the world's top travel products. At the same time, it is a reality that Hurtigruten competes in a tough international market and is very vulnerable when the world economy fails. At home the company has been given increased competition by traditional cruises during the summer months. The right-wing justification for continued State involvement in Hurtigruten is twofold: consideration of the local population and consideration of the tourism industry. The Hurtigruten has heavy years behind it as a result of changing framework conditions. From the right, we find it right to point out that the red-green government, with its charging arrangements, has created major challenges for the company, while the Minister for Transport has unexplainedly for a long time refused to enter into dialogue with the company to find out what could be done to remedy the difficult situation. Although the Hurtigruten has started extensive conversion programmes, record bunker costs, high interest rates and the introduction of NOx have contributed to the raising of savings gains. The economic hardship in which the company has landed has been serious, with high debt and a fleet poorly adapted to the winter half-year, as it operates with a significant overcapacity. The winter bet in Antarctica, with cruises from pole to pole, and the summer bet in Greenland have given new, attractive products, but without this being able to compensate for low winter bets Bergen–Kirkenes. In this very demanding situation, it has been disappointing to experience that the authorities of the Ministry of Transport have been twinning their hands for too long. The unwillingness to reconsider the terms of the fast route agreement, which the company has repeatedly requested, has been evident. Fortunately, this has now changed. Finally, the Minister of Transport and the Government have come on track and signalled their willingness to contribute to achieving a sustainable fast-track approach. I understand that many coastal rapporteurs are fighting to secure the economy in their ports, but I have little understanding that this should be a responsibility for the Hurtigruten alone. Now that certain changes in sailing patterns are being opened up, it is also necessary to take into account the fact that tourists on board often want more landing time on the way in order to be able to experience more of Norwegian nature and culture. Longer laytime in some places means that the fast route can create even greater ring-effects and lay the basis for a new activity-based tourism. I think this can make the fast route product even more attractive, not least downwards in younger age groups, thus expanding the customer base for the fast route. Rapid routes continue to serve coastal and industrial populations, but new roads and continental connections have provided alternative routes of administration in many places. A new fast-haul agreement must also be based on this recognition. The exposure around the fast route is strong – and rightly so. The role of fast route as an engine for travel life along the coast and as a gateway to Norway is invaluable. It is therefore appropriate to establish a new high-speed route agreement with the State as a long-term partner and buyer of services as an important contribution to the operation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e351	‘The world’s most beautiful voyage is the best-known Norwegian travel product in the world, now also in the version ‘Hunting the light’. We from the north, and many more, know how amazing the light in its many facets is in the north, both the blue-green in winter and the daylight throughout the day in the summer. 11 pst. of foreign hotel accommodation in Norway takes place on a fast route, and about 50 pst. of foreign nights spent in North Norway on a fast-track basis. There are still large sums of money in purchases and services in Coast Norway. The fast route is the coast's most important engine in travel life. But the fast route is not only our most famous travel concept, it is also the national road of the coast, for passenger transport and freight – not least goods, dry goods, refrigerated goods and frozen goods – and that it is a car ferry. From Trondheim and northwards most of the freight capacity is used. It's a little bit worse north and south. That is why there is an important matter for the representative of Sahl. The representative Sahl has shown great commitment to the fast-moving route, and he should have commended it for that. However, we should bear in mind that when the government of Bondevik put the Bergen–Kirkenes coast route on the market, it was ‘provided that this is possible within today’s framework for the purchase of State services’. Had it become the frame, we wouldn't have any interference today. Then the fast route would be set in the bends in 2004 – five years ago. If we go further back in history, in 1990 the government of Syse, with a Minister of Transport from the Christian People's Party, presented a proposal that would have resulted in the speeding up of the route 19 years ago. But the government was also voted down that time. The governments of Jan Sahl's party have no glittering history. But the Stortinget set foot down in both 1990 and 2004. However, the agreement reached in the light of the 2004 decision was too poor. The framework was inadequate, and the company does not have a large scope for action within the agreement. There have been many crime lakes for the Hurtigruten in recent years. All changes have ESA's surveying eyes on them. In the light of the post-war situation, one might say that the company could not make any tenders, discarding the cards. But they had invested a lot, and dropped the concept together, it would also go bad. I.e.: tender or not — peste or cholera. There have been some challenges in the company's structure and operations, with administration in many cities and a large director's body. There is a lot to be said about it, but what we should focus on is: Is fast-tracking important for coastal transport and as a travel-life operator? Under today’s agreement, the Government has entered into compensation arrangements for NOx and bunker price increases as an immediate solution. It has been good and important to do the crime lakes now, but we need a long-term solution that makes both the coastal highway and the travel life product survive and evolve with predictability and long-termity. For many local communities, fast routes are important as a means of transport. Northwards, there are groceries, construction products and packaging for the fishing industry. Southwards it goes frozen fish. It's over 1,000 years old in the fast lane. As a travel product, it's our most important thing. And the travel product is closely linked to the transport route. It is the connection between being a passenger boat and a freighter adding to cities and small coastal communities, separating the fast route from cruise traffic, which makes our visitors experience Norway in a completely different way – becoming part of a people's life. But it's also this connection that makes costs big. In this connection, there are opportunities, but also challenges. The government is adding up to a new agreement already this year, based on the recognition that today’s agreement is not viable until 2013, which is the end of its term. In a time perspective until 2013, there is a risk – yes, very likely – that it would have happened. But we're facing some very difficult choices. If we want to keep the fast route in the current edition, with daily sailings all year round from Bergen to Kirkenes, we have to calculate a public purchase that is significantly higher than today. If costs are to be reduced, the product will have to be changed. This may mean changing the approach pattern, e.g.: that there will be no daily sailing in the low season, perhaps even in the shoulder season. It will reduce the impact of the fast route on distance passengers and also reduce the supply of goods. But even worse, if ports are cut, there is a danger that the small ports will be hit in the communities most dependent on the offer. I would warn you strongly against that. I have become a spokeswoman for the state to have a more active policy to strengthen the company, and have launched proposals that the State should propose a targeted issue that could reduce the company's debt and strengthen trust in the company. A direct link can be settled against SAS, where the state is a minority holding, with a holding of 14.3 p.m. The State has entered into a fixed issue in this company of 800 million. to strengthen the company’s equity. In order to develop the fast route, it is important to consider whether the state can enter as a medium.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e382	I thank the interpellant for travelling this important theme. The left is committed to facilitating sustainable housing and industrial development in the districts. The high-speed route has traditionally been an important prerequisite for this along the coast. The Hurtigruten also represents a development and a resource for an ageing and innovative tourist industry in the districts. Norwegian fjords are one of the most sought after tourist attractions. There is an even greater need to invest in their marketing and to put in place a strategy for the expansion of the tourism industry. The left considers it important to facilitate the further sustainable operation of the fast route and those parts of that operation that are essential for the country. Transport by sea is also positive for the environment in relation to road transport. In particular, maritime transport on longer distances may indicate significant environmental savings in greenhouse gas emissions, but also in relation to local pollution and environmental pressures, as transport is carried out outside densely populated areas. The fast route is now in an economically demanding situation, and many fear that their local offers will disappear. In general, there are between local requests for approaches to rationalisation of operations as a whole in order to ensure them in the long term. This is no easy approximation. In any case, the fast route will depend on the organisation of collapse and government for continued operation in the future. One needs to look at the overall benefits of society — housing, business, which is essential to be close to the large fish resources. Therefore, the Left has great expectations that the Government will strengthen the position of maritime transport in the context of the national transport plan, so that we can get more traffic from road to road. As a maritime nation, we have good prospects for success in such a venture. It's environmentally wise, and it'll be valuable for the settlement and economic development along our long-range coast. I have recorded that maritime transport has given attention to the need for, among other things. logistical nodes for more rational and efficient handling of goods in relation to ports, and would like to challenge the Government if this is something that the Government wants to follow up with increased efforts in connection with the national transport plan. Finally, the left looks forward to a new bidding round, and we have a good dialogue with our local elected representatives, who are very committed to this matter. I support the inter-pellant in the wish for a debate here in Stortinget if major changes are made, and I am pleased that the Minister for Transport here today confirms that this will be opened up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e401	I would like to thank you for the commitment of each representative who has been up and expressed his view on the fast route. What can be seen after all the parties have been represented here is that there is a strong commitment to the Storting to take care of the fast route and the sailing pattern that we have today, and to facilitate the sustainable development of the fast route concept in the future. I'm very happy about that myself. So just a few short comments to, among other things. Bendiks H. Arnesen, who used the first part of his post to express amazement at my criticism. My criticism came at that stage when the government sat on the fence and the Hurtigruten slid. It took a very long time, it was slow before the Department and the Council of State were on the track, and we could have actually experienced that the Hurtigruten had gone bankrupt before the final measures came. But when the measures came, they were very good, and I have boasted of that, both the compensation for the NOx charge of 125 million. the fact that the concept has been prepared to be reconstructed until a new bidding round is decided. That's very good. Then, as I said, there has been a fairly coherent melody throughout the debate here that we want to take care of the concept. I am very pleased with the Minister's clear answer as to whether we should get the matter to Stortinget before the tender papers go out. Then it might be interesting to ask what kind of a time perspective it is, if you expect to make it so that we get the chance to deal with it before the Storting separates before the summer break. In the end, I challenge the Minister whether the opinions given to the press in connection with the Central Party's national meeting are the position of the Senter Party and, if necessary, of the Minister, when entering the final phase. It means, as far as I can see, a significant cut in the winter half.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e416	I would like to thank you for a good debate on an important theme. There are important issues that have been discussed, which concern people along the coast. And if there's something this debate shows, it's just a broad commitment to the fast way. The debate also shows that it is easier to be very positive and very for when one sits in opposition than when one sits in position. For the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, a big message, St.meld. No 16 for 2003–04, on the future and the sailing pattern of the fast route, and some important elements were completely regrouped in government. Point 1: Transport standard cannot be evaluated independently of cost. Point 2: The government thinks the collected set should not be relevant to pay more than today. And point 3: If the principal solution exceeds today's resource use, select one of the alternative offers. This can read from the Input Summary. S No 125 for 2003-2004. These were the positions of the three ruling parties, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. Only the Right stood on these positions in the Storting. It's nice to see you on the right today, but in the same setting, you can read: ‘The members of the Committee of the Right believe that the use of resources related to the public purchase of this transport service should be within today’s level and that this should be ensured as set out in the Storing Communication’;» – so make sure that one does not take a worse offer than the Stortinget then gathers around, with four sailings a week, and not daily, and a shared solution. And... ‘These members note that there is no majority in favour of this solution, but would nevertheless stress that the use of resources must not exceed the current level.’ Then it is strange to criticise me and the Government that we are late and too little, when we have secured a differential employer's fee, which amounts to $28 million. kr annually, and net pay, amounting to 90 million. kr annually. We've added a sum of 125 million. kr on the table. It's not entirely in line with what the three parties that then put in government meant that one should have. On the contrary, it's a completely different bet, it's a completely different way of listening to the Hurtigruten. Yes, we spent some time on it. For negotiating such an agreement, it is not that easy. We also have ESA to stick to, which at least one of the three parties is very positive – they want EU membership as well. ESA has its seat on our backs, and is now sitting on our backs, when it comes to what solutions we should choose that do not come under State aid – that we are going to be in debt to provide state aid – that will again hit the Hurtigruten. If we go into solutions that we could in isolation want, but that in retrospect will require Hurtigruten to pay back, it will be a blow that Hurtigruten may not be able to stand up to. I can't say the time right now, precisely because these are complicated rounds. So we have to notify ESA, we have to go the necessary rounds to make sure that what we bring to the Storing is solid and proper. I can only say on behalf of the Center Party – I believe I can also say on behalf of the Government – that this is a question that we are going to be working on with the utmost seriousness. We need to ensure good services along the coast. We need to secure the fast route in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e439	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e453	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e462	I want to commend the proposers, because this is a matter and a problem that both the position and the opposition are concerned about and have a strong focus on, namely, putting in place a good school offer across the country for minor asylum seekers. In its letter of 10 October 2008, where the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality and the Ministry of Knowledge stated that there could be grounds for a more detailed assessment of both the law, the practice of this and other challenges in the training of minor asylum seekers residing in the child welfare centre and minors living with their care staff in reception of asylum. An overall committee underlines its satisfaction with this, as it is particularly important because the children and young people concerned have many and complex challenges when they come to Norway. It is also important for integration and Norwegian education that a good school offer is provided as quickly as possible. But then the consensus ends in the committee. I now want to refer to what the majority says, and then the opposition gets to argue for its comments. The majority point to the establishment of an interministerial group chaired by the Ministry of Knowledge, consisting of representatives from the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs and the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, which in 2008 worked on issues related to minority language pupils coming to Norway late in the school run. Some of the work of the Interministerial Group has now been covered by the mandate of the Equal Opportunities Committee for Minority Language Education in Kindergarten, Primary School, Secondary Education and Higher Education, appointed by the Council of State on 24 October 2008. This group will continue its work where it discusses issues related to minority language pupils. The Committee shall carry out an overall review of the training provision for minority language children, young people and adults in kindergarten, primary, secondary and higher education. In the light of this review, the sample shall propose changes and measures to improve the learning outcomes and the learning environment. In particular, it is emphasised that the sample should assess and propose measures related to the functioning of ordinary primary and secondary education in practice for minority language applicants, including asylum seekers. The selection shall also propose any changes in content, structures and framework. The Committee shall issue a sub-position on kindergarten and primary school towards the end of 2009 and the final position by 1 June 2010. We are pleased by the majority with the job that is now being done, but I would also like to point out that the Stortinget decided to strengthen the rate of training of lone minor asylum seekers under 15 years of age by 15 million. kr. A qualitative strengthening of training provision for this age group has thus been provided. It is important that we now have a care and education system for them between the ages of 15 and 18, and I would like to make it clear that it is working on this, and that it should be in place as soon as it is practicable. This is clarified by the majority in the 2008-2009 budgetary position. The majority of the Committee, having regard to the work currently being done, will propose that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e479	I had to crawl out of the sick bed today, so I hope you carry my voice. First, I would like to thank the proposers for putting their finger on an important problem in relation to the lone minor asylum seekers. It's clear that it's important that these are followed up. Children have a great ability to adapt, and it must be important that these children receive an offer as soon as they have been placed in a reception for which the child protection system is responsible. These children are a very vulnerable group that carries much heavier baggage than most. Some have seen their parents killed, others have been child soldiers themselves, and others have again been subjected to violence and abuse. It goes without saying that these are children that Norway needs to take care of and make a real offer. What worries us in the opposition is, of course, that the government has no immediate plan for these children and young people. The government has set up a sample to look at the school situation for children and young people with a minority background, and that is good and good. But these kids are special, and they need a special offer – and they need it now. Moreover, in the Nordic region, there has been little progress in the area of unaccompanied minor asylum seekers as far as Norway is concerned. Look to Norway has become a concept, even in the case of these children. When, moreover, the Nordic countries, through the work we have done in the Nordic Council, actually look at what Norway has done, and try to get similar things in their countries, we will be proud of it, but not so proud that we choose to do the job just halfway. Now we have reception centres where child protection is the responsibility. Although it may not seem quite optimal yet, at least we have given the children a much safer place to stay than they had before. Children need security, they need care, they need love, and they need training, both in Norwegian language to communicate and in other subjects to keep them stimulated. Children need follow-up through psychologists who can help them with their traumas and physical health, which is not always very good either. Then it is important that we have a support device that can cooperate and that has clear guidelines. I hope that the Council of State will give these children high priority, so that we who also meet other countries' problems can continue to say 'Look to Norway'.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e494	Children seeking asylum are primarily children, the second children seeking asylum. All children in Norway shall be trained regardless of their background and whether they are here legally or illegally, whether they are asylum seekers or Norwegian children. It is provided for in the Training Act clearly and clearly. So actually, we have a law that's good enough to ensure that they're properly trained. If we are serious about appropriate training, we must take these children seriously, with their background. So the law in Norway is great; it is designed for all children. It's the practice of the law that gives us some challenges. It was discovered before Christmas that there were children in Eastfold who were not trained at all, and the municipality was responsible for their temporary presence. Obviously, one of the losses we can make for asylum seekers is that we put them on hold. It's not supposed to happen. Fortunately, the Minister of Knowledge explained to me that the training law applies and that all children should be trained. If one knows that they are going out of the country within three months, an exception does not need to start such training, but otherwise – that is all the children we are talking about today – they will be trained right away. Do not hesitate before a seat starts. Adapted training is a challenge for students because there is a lack of competence around the municipalities it concerns, but there is no excuse for not getting started. I am very pleased with the proposal under consideration here today, because it is concrete. It puts our finger on exactly what's the challenge: how are we going to give these students a good offer in practice? And how are we going to get a cooperation between reception centre, child protection and school? I think the majority hesitates a little bit. It's great that you've put down a sample, it's great that you have to have a review and that you have to build skills in this area. One has to do, but at the same time one has to get started. The opposition's proposals are concrete proposals on how to improve school provision for asylum seekers with immediate effect. It's very important that they get started quickly, precisely because they have a difficult background. Regardless of where they live, they need training in both language and culture. The road to good integration and to good growth is through language and training. I hope that the Government will take these good proposals from the opposition, and that a parallel to an investigator and build expertise in this area will launch concrete actions for the group. But I would like to sum up by saying: Today the law says that all children should be trained, and everyone should have adapted their training. Adapted training for this group means that one looks both at the length of the school day, at their own arrangements, at interpreting services and at all the good suggestions made by the opposition. I am addressing the proposal of the Party of Advances, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left that is included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e511	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e514	Since last year we promoted the proposal we are discussing here today, the school situation of the minor asylum seekers in the reception centres has not improved very much. There is a warning of unclear signals as to what the training provision for this group should be, how the funding should work, whether training is given at the place of residence, in the protection of children or at school. The guards give us feedback that it is difficult to fight for the rights of the individual child in terms of training, and the school owner warns of a failing-fitting scheme because you do not know if it is child protection or training you are given to do with these children. We have alarmingly many enquiries about this from very different sides. Many suggest that the Government’s response to difficult challenges is the creation of selections and groups. In this case, the Council of State has chosen to extend the mandate of an already existing sample, a sample which was initially to deal with slightly different issues than the training offered to minor asylum seekers, which we are now talking about. This sample was thus composed by a different mandate. On a number of points, the reform of child protection has been poorly prepared and a poorly thought-out project for minor asylum seekers. It has failed in many areas. Firstly, the number of children far exceeded the capacity of established state receptions. Of course, this has the effect of operating with overcoating in several places. At the same time, private solutions were closed and framework agreements were rejected with private operators with free capacity, who were wanted to be received internally in the field of child protection. Secondly, the school provision and the legislation on what kind of training provision these children are now entitled to have has not been satisfactorily reviewed in advance of the reform. This has resulted in an unresolved funding situation between state, county and municipality and a unclear distribution of responsibilities between school owners and child protection. There has been a very poor interpretation service and an unsustainable situation for the authorities set up to protect the rights of these children. It is critical that no more detailed planning was carried out and the necessary clarifications were made before the reform was launched. And it's even more strange that we didn't immediately put in place a job to get solutions to these problems as they were brought to light through a series of newspaper articles and the political debate. Now, the situation is that all those who are going to deal with these challenges daily have to wait for a sample that was thus set up in October 2008, which was initially not mandated to look at these issues, and which, as far as I understand, is expected to deliver its nomination on 1 June 2010. Thereafter, it is likely that there will be a further period of time before concrete changes can be made. So it takes this government almost three years to come up with proposals for solutions to challenges such as child protection, reception centres, schools, school owners, forgetters, interpreters and others have made clear to the Government, challenges that the Council of State recognizes that there is a need to address them in order to find solutions. We think that this is too small. We think briefly that the government does not address a serious problem area that concerns perhaps some of the weakest in our society. We think it is stupid and thought that the position does not take the problems into account in such a way that they could go for them – we think – rather obvious demands we have made in the present proposal. We're maintaining our proposal, and then we're going to hope that the government is doing something to make progress in this so that we can get decent relationships about the training situation for the children we're talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e529	I am pleased that there is a cross-political consensus in this Chamber that we should have a better offer for lone minor asylum seekers. But as everyone here knows, this responsibility has become heavier to bear, because when we took this decision, there were 30 lone minor asylum seekers under the age of 15. Now the last forecast is 250. Clearly, for municipalities that have accepted single minor asylum seekers, this task has become more challenging than what was originally planned. That's why I want to say that those who have worked with these children have done a very good job. This applies, inter alia, to: in the Skiptvet and at Eidsvoll. I've visited both places. There is a good work done there, but we also need to be open to improve this offer. That is why, in cooperation with the Minister of Knowledge, I have said that we will look into both the law and the practice of it. The Minister of Knowledge and I would also like to look at other challenges in the training of minor asylum seekers residing in the child welfare centres and in reception centres as well as children living with caregivers in reception centres. It's a work the government is already working on. In 2008, the Ministry of Knowledge set up a group from several departments to identify the issues of late school students. The work of the group was based on a survey of the structural framework conditions for the training of short-stay minority young people in Norway. This survey was carried out by the consultant company Rambøll and delivered in February 2008 on behalf of the Ministry of Knowledge. The work on formal training will be followed up by the equivalent training sample for minority language, the so-called Eastberg Committee. Many of the questions discussed here will be dealt with in this sample. There are certain parts of this proposal for a representative that I will now discuss. As regards the length of school time and the scope of training, the Training Act states. The law's paragraph regulates the external framework for primary education. A specified number of hours of the week, such as the representatives to believe, has not been determined. indent one of Document No 8:130 for 2007-2008. It follows from the professional and hourly breakdown in the Knowledge Commitment Plan that students will normally have 7,496 instructional hours of 60 minutes during the ten-year primary school. The number of teaching hours has no connection with how the teaching time should actually be organised. Within the main step, i.e. the child’s step 1–7. the 8th to 10th stage and the youth stage. stage, determine the professional and hourly breakdown of the municipality by stage of the year. Each municipality has the freedom to organise the teaching units within the prescribed period of time. In the case of exemption from the training obligation, the fourth paragraph of Section 2-1 of the Training Act states that the municipality can fully or partially exempt a student from the training obligation when considering the student. Before such a decision can be taken, expert judgement on pedagogical-psychological services shall be available. Exemptions will primarily be applicable when the implementation of the training obligation would be unfair to the student. The exemption provided for in this provision does not imply any shortening of the student's rights. The student has the right to complete the training at a later stage. Very few, if any, of the children and young people concerned have Norwegian knowledge, as the representatives point out. It requires, as is also stated in the proposal, extensive use of interpreters. And there are measures in place to train interpreters. The Oslo College started a permanent interpretation training course in the autumn of 2007. The search for this training is good, and the completion rate is now approx. 90 pst. That's good. From January 2009, the College will launch the first building block. The aim is to be able to offer a bachelor's degree in interpretation. I'm glad we got this discussion. In the further work, something has been delegated to the so-called Eastberg Committee, but many of these proposals we will also shoot at when we work on this every single day. I am concerned, as the representatives have been involved, with addressing the challenges facing each school child, and we have a continuous dialogue with the municipalities concerned. We have taken a great deal of responsibility in relation to the construction of care centres, but the number has become much higher than what we first predicted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e553	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e556	I am pleased with the positive signals of the Council of State – I experience them at least as positive – and also clarifying the input, until what she thinks must be that we have misunderstood the situation in terms of training time, exemption schemes and the organisation of education. If we have misunderstood this, I can assure the Council of State that we are in good company. This is perceived as a major problem at Eidsvoll – from school, from the municipality, from the guards and from various people inside. In that case, I hope the department will take the initiative to clarify this, not only for the opposition, but also for those who are working on this. So it was referred to a number of different selections and agencies that the ministry is working on, and my question is short and straightforward: what kind of progress does the Council of State see separately in relation to this? How does the department now think in the future to improve the specific situation of these children? For I really do not expect the Council of State to wait until 1 June 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e563	It is absolutely right that we want to work continuously with the municipalities that are affected – who have made a very great effort. That's also the basis for giving us extra funds, because we see that taking care of the training of some of these students has been much more responsible than what was originally expected. In the beginning, it was thought that these children would go to different schools and integrate, but eventually the need for competence was so great that most of them were gathered in a special class at high school. So this has been challenging for the municipalities. An individual is also employed at the care centre to take care of the training and to assist. And the care centre has had a job as in a normal home – to assist with, among other things. lesion. So it's been a lot of work, and too many people have been challenging, but we have a continuous dialogue with the municipalities about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e569	The Council of State said in its statement that today, within the training law, it is possible to deviate from the number of hours, and there are procedures for doing so. I agree with the Council of State on that. But the problem with today's system is that you have to go through the PPT, and the pedagogical-psychological service takes time. And then there are no asylum seekers. So what the proposers and the opposition are asking for here is that you can use the follow-up papers you bring with you from the reception centres, i.e. that you can get a faster procedure – and to deviate from the training law – to access adapted training to a greater extent than is permitted today. So these students lack a history in Norwegian school. My question to the Council of State will be: can the Council of State take the initiative to facilitate procedures for organising training for asylum seekers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e574	In the case of laws, regulations and procedures, it must be handled in an ordinary way through sampling, through consultations — and in all ways. But I believe that this is primarily about people who can take care of these children. It is often independent of laws, regulations and procedures. In many places it is an economic issue. We've also seen that, and that's why we've given some extra money. So I think it's about many adults around them who can fill up with the training they don't have from their home country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e579	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2097]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e597	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 5 minutes and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 20 minutes, Progress Party 15 minutes, Right 10 minutes, Socialist Left Party 5 minutes, Christian People's Party 5 minutes, Center Party 5 minutes and Left 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e608	The matter we are dealing with today has been raised by Stortinget in many contexts. The case was thoroughly dealt with in St.meld. No 24 for 2004-2005 Replacement schemes for children in children's homes and special schools for children with behavioural disabilities. In this context, the Stortinget decided to replace former orphanage and special school children on the basis of stays in or special schools during the period 1945–80 by adjusting the Grandhold’s lavish-reimbursement scheme – legal compensation. As is known, the evidence requirements have been lowered, both in comparison with the general right to compensation and the ordinary system of cheapness compensation. Furthermore, less attention shall be paid to the consequences that have been experienced for the individual. The emphasis shall be on self-declaration and confirmation of orphanages. The ceiling was also raised to NOK 300000. It is also possible to apply for cheap payments under this scheme even if compensation has been provided for by municipal compensation schemes for former orphans. However, the possibility of applying for cheap payments does not deter access for this group to claim compensation against the State on the basis of the same relationship. During the examination of the case in Stortinget, an overall family, cultural and administrative committee supported the assessment by the Ministry of Children and Family that there was no need for changes to the general right to compensation adapted to that group. However, the Committee provided in a note that the limitation period is not applicable in cases concerning this group. The Committee’s assumption was an important element in the State’s assessment of the issue of limitation in one case that has been dealt with in the legal system. However, the State also had to include several other fundamental and important elements in the overall assessment of whether limitation should be claimed. The main idea behind the rules on the limitation of claims is that the injured party should be encouraged to submit his claim within a reasonable time after the damage has been found. Reasons justify this, as evidence of what has happened — not least what caused the damage — will be weakened or lost over time. Most of the considerations on which the rules on limitation are based apply in cases like this. Documentary evidence is lost, and witnesses and perpetrators are old and, if necessary, also dead, thus being cut off from contributing to their perception of what happened and respond to serious accusations being made. Moreover, any testimony will be marked by the fact that the fact is some 40 years back in time. The problems of evidence which the courts will face in the case of orphanages are supported by the fact that the Stortinge had made a specific adjustment to its cheap substitutes scheme for this group. The general rule is that claims for compensation are due three years after the victim has, or should have, acquired the necessary knowledge of the damage and the person responsible. That period is intended to allow reasonable time for the injured party to assess whether a claim for compensation should be made. In the case which has been dealt with in the legal system and where the State claimed limitation, this subjective three-year period was out of date, in addition to the objective deadlines. In addition, the plaintiff, through an agreement with the municipality of Bergen in 2002, awarded a total compensation of NOK 725000 for the same facts on which the action against the State was based. In addition, he/she will be able to apply for a cheap allowance for the stay at the orphanage under the adapted cheap substitute scheme of the Storting. In that case, it was specifically negotiated on the issue of limitation in the case-law and in the law of law. There has therefore been no negotiation of the substance of the case, including the basis of responsibility for the State and the causal link between the actions and the damage. The State was freed from the jurisdiction of the courts and from the law of the law of the law of the law, and the appeal was not allowed before the Supreme Court. The Lawyers' Court also held that the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Communities contained the opinion of the Court of Justice of the European Communities. S. No 217 for 2004–2005 does not prevent the State from bringing an action for annulment in this case. Finally, I would like to stress what several government councils have said to Stortinget, that the issue of limitation will be assessed in concrete terms in each case that may be raised against the State. The said comment of the Committee will form a central element of the decision-making basis. The question of whether the State should rely on the validity of these cases will also always be considered in line with the ‘careline’ applicable to the State, as explained by the Minister of Justice in his reply to the Judicial Committee on the proposal for a modification of the parental leave law in relation to the orphanages. I recommend the committee's recommendation. I assume that the minority in the committee will address its proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e641	This is the third time that we are going to deal with the issue of limitation in respect of compensation for children in children's homes and special schools between 1945 and 1980. The fact that we are dealing with this issue again at all is very tragic, especially given the expectations of people who had their childhood destroyed by violence, abuse and abuse in public institutions – institutions that were supposed to give their children a safe upbringing, which the parents of these children did not always have the ability or the will to do. Parents left their children to the public because they had to. Maybe there were economic reasons, maybe there was a lack of housing, or maybe there was a lonely mother who had no other choice if she was to have the opportunity to get a job. And the public took childhood from a number of children in this country – by living in constant fear and insecurity. When these incredible things were first revealed in Bergen, it was thought that it was an institution or two, but it was soon to show that this was something that was happening all over the country. A new lavish substitute committee was first set up to deal with these issues. Not very long ago, another one was created, because you didn't get the queues of things away. The trial period is still two years away — two years that many of these people may not even have. We know that these matters have been dealt with differently in the different municipalities that placed these children in institutions or in special schools. Some municipalities provide full compensation, others give nothing. The Family, Culture and Administrative Committee examined the matter of compensation for children with disabilities and the special school children in 2005. Then we thought we had finished the matter. No one would score cheap political points at the expense of the misery of others. And there was an overall committee – as the rapporteur quite rightly said – that agreed with this. Despite the fact that some of the parties might have thought of making the formulations clearer, we chose to stand together and have a consensus on what became the setting of the Stortinget, and to which a total increase joined, namely that the limitation period should not apply in these cases. In its reply to the Committee, the Council of State once again says that the comment mentioned – and then we are talking about the limitation period – ‘will form a central part of the decision-making basis’. A central moment? The comment of the size must be indicative of interpretations, and interpretations should not be necessary here. A total collapse was behind the note. A total increase gave hope to victims of public violence, public sexual abuse and public abuse. But then the government parties once again choose to commit a public offense. This doesn't have to be interpreted. The representative of May Hansen was present in the Committee during the entire discussion of this matter during the previous period. It was also Eirin Fallet, Torny Pedersen and Trond Giske from the Workers' Party, and we all agreed. The Attorney General has now apparently got the last word in cases of this kind, where someone is suing the state for private action. He stated that the unanimous comment of the Committee was not legally binding, because if the Committee at the time felt that limitation should not be enforced, then the Stortinget had to have drafted its own legal clause or should have given the government instructions on how to deal with these matters. That's exactly what the Big One did. We said that the limitation law was to be set aside in these matters. It wasn't harder. I'm sorry I spend so much time on this, but I think it's necessary, because someone obviously trains or doesn't want to follow Storting's intentions. Then the first case is tried before the court, where the government attorney is once again inside the picture and invokes obsolescence. And when we read the letter of reply from the Council of State to the Committee, it becomes total chaos. She claims in her letter that this subjective three-year period was out, in addition to the objective deadlines. The law did not decide whether the subjective three-year period had begun to run. So that is not correct, what is stated in the letter of reply from the Council of State. She also claims that the objective 20-year period had expired. Yes, it is, when the cases go back to 1945. None of the cases dealt with in today's lavish substitutes committees is within the objective 20-year period. The youngest of these cases is actually 29 years old. In addition, the Council of State fails to inform the Committee that in 2004 the Storting repealed the objective 20-year limitation period in respect of claims for damages against children and young people under 18 years of age. With this amendment, it was stressed that consideration for the victims should outweigh the need for the strength of the evidence and the need for the perpetrator. Is it true that these children fall under this category – or does this not apply when it is the State that is the defendant? In other words, they are going to get their bills, which they are going to accept with joy, and then they are going to sit down nicely and be grateful – without having the opportunity to try their case before the courts. Where are the human rights? Where is legal certainty? Not only that the Council of State has failed to tell everything, but that the red-green parties on the Stortinge support this, is beyond my comprehension. You wonder what the motive is. Could it be that this is becoming too expensive for the state, or that there is too much work? I can't find any other motives. Paving with one hand and then hitting with the other is not worthy of politicians. I have a hope that the government parties will now turn around for 12 hours in this case, so that it will not be standing as an example of a sad chapter regarding the children's orphanages and special schoolchildren. If we're to have any faith and respect for what's being said in this room and from this pulpit, it has to happen. I'm addressing the opposition proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e669	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e672	The background to this proposal – as the previous speaker said, we have dealt with it three times during this ageing period – is St.meld. No 24 for 2004–2005, which deals with a tragic aspect of Norwegian child protection history. Many have had their childhood and adult life ruined. The 2003 Monitoring Committee, which was appointed in 2003, has established that care failures and serious physical, mental and sexual abuses occurred in orphanages and special schools. The Monitoring Committee concluded that during the period 1945–80 there has been a significant incidence of violence and sexual abuse in child protection institutions and that most of the abuses have been carried out by employees. For the treatment of St.meld. No 24 a Joint Committee concluded that many former orphans and children from special schools have been subjected to serious care failures and abuses. The Committee also pointed out that it could be difficult to obtain compensation under the general rules on compensation, including: due to lack of accountability, lack of evidence and not least limitation. In view of this, the Stortinget adopted a special adjustment to the lavishness allowance of the Stortinget. The requirements for proof were lowered. The emphasis shall be on self-declaration and confirmation of orphanages. The amount of compensation shall be up to 300000 and shall be limited to this group. We know that archives and papers from the institutions are deficient and partly absent. It was therefore important for the Committee to clarify that adaptation should be made both in evidence requirements and in substitution assessments for this group. It was also clarified that the compensation under an adapted compensation scheme would not deprive persons from this group of the opportunity to seek redress in the light of the same circumstances. It is a great responsibility when the public comes in and assumes responsibility for children who are at risk of care failure. In St.meld. No 24 for 2004–2005 points out that the State was responsible for overseeing the Ministry of Social Affairs of the Children’s Protection Inspectors and subsequently through the county councillors of the Children’s Protection Secretaries. The political governance also had a responsibility for law and regulation in addition to the overall responsibility for the subject area in question. It is therefore not possible to point to a clear division of responsibilities between the State, the municipality and the private sector. The liability has to be assessed in detail in each case. SV has, in retrospect, been concerned with the flexibility and adaptability of the compensation system during the processing of the notification. It has been important to reduce the length of the procedure so that they are involved, not to wait so long for an answer. Improvements have been made here in several areas — procedural time, and more samples have been reduced to put this in place. SV is of course behind the comment we made at the time. We assume from the SV that the Committee's comment on the limitation period is taken into account in these cases. I'll show you that in St.meld. No 24 for 2004-2005 refer to Innst. O. No 18 for 1995-1996, where it says: ‘The Committee points out that the State has the opportunity to waive an objection of limitation, and that this is also done almost without exception in practice where the injured person would otherwise suffer innocent losses. The Committee would stress the importance of consistent follow-up to this practice, not least in cases where public claims are made for maladministration or misconduct against children and young people. The Committee considers that it would be clearly unreasonable for injured parties to be met with a claim for limitation in such cases and asks the Ministry to ensure that the rules on limitation of limitation are applied in accordance with the assumptions laid down.’;» SV is also concerned that in the future we need to ensure that there is an abuse and care failure in the protection of children. It is therefore essential to have quality assurance and a control and supervision system that functions as such. Finally, I believe that the representative – and the former Council of State – Davøy is to some extent responsible for the fact that we have come into the situation we have, because it was clearly clarified to us that there was no need for a change in the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e694	This is a very important matter, and it is not the first time it is put on the agenda, as many have said. When I, as the State Council, promoted St.meld. No 24 for 2004–2005 on compensation schemes for children in children's homes and special schools for children, I had never imagined that I should stand here three years later and had to defend the Bondevik II government and a total increase in the number of children's children's pensions, i.e. not to claim limitation in claims relating to former children's homes. This was already recorded in the Storing Message. I allow myself to quote a few paragraphs from the message: ‘A separate guideline has been developed for the treatment of such requirements, as set out in: kgl. Res. of 20 December 2002. There is a certain practice that the country does not make the current expiry date.’ Furthermore, I would like to quote from the same note, which is quoted from the Innst of the Judicial Committee. O. No 18 for 1995-96: ‘The Committee points out that the State has the opportunity to waive an objection of limitation, and that this is also done almost without exception in practice where the injured person would otherwise suffer innocent losses. The Committee would stress the importance of consistent follow-up to this practice, not least in cases where public claims are made for maladministration or misconduct against children and young people. The Committee considers that it would be clearly unreasonable for injured parties to be met with a claim for limitation in such cases and asks the Ministry to ensure that the rules on limitation of limitation are applied in accordance with the assumptions laid down.’;» This is therefore from the position of the Justice Committee for 1995-96. When examining the notification, the Committee would be insure even more strongly and said that it provided that the limitation was not invoked in cases involving this group. It's a very clear and strong formulation. The former orphanage children – and I think I dare say all the key politicians – perceived it this way when the committee dealt with the bigotry message that longevity would not be a problem in the future. We would actually have explained that. Despite this, in the first case of compensation raised against the State, the then Minister for Child and Gender Equality of the Stoltenberg II Government – I believe it must have been Karita Bekkemelm – decided that limitation should be applied. Thus, today's government has made it clear that Storting's clear leadership and decisions are a legal issue. Repeated questions from different opposition politicians are answered by the Government with legal arguments. Later, government parties in the Grand Duchy have accepted such a practice. Neither I, the opposition parties, nor former orphans understand how it is possible to do this against an already vulnerable group of people, against individuals who have suffered great injustices, and who the public has not been able to protect. For me, this matter is not about jus, but about a worthy treatment and termination of many individual tragedy. Governments and government parties’ representatives have had every opportunity for three years to propose and promote legislative changes – if the law is the problem. They didn't. The matter is embarrassing for a red-green government that gives the impression of speaking the weak case. It's never too late to turn. I would therefore like to end this tragic case today by supporting the proposals of the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e728	First, a little testimonial: I have been in other phases of my life sitting on the other end of the scale of responsibility and trying to create solutions for people, and have had many legal documents around me. And I know at least one thing – that if you don't do a craftsman's job because it's legal, it doesn't help if the Storting decides good opinions. I understand very well those who have achieved a unanimous remark, because unanimous remarks often lead to a happy hour for big business representatives. But my cold shower gets that unanimous remarks in and of themselves do not hold, unless the other side is set to follow up. A unanimous remark by Stortinget is not the same as a Roman number decision, as a legislative decision or as another type of decision. That's actually why I'm in on a proposal: to promote a decision. Then you might say in the name of the afterwatch that it should have been recorded before, but then I put in a slightly different context, and that was not natural. But with my insight into this, namely the people involved, the group concerned, and with the impotence that I have felt in part – even in this period of mass destruction, when I tried to achieve justice for those who had had the frailty that they were just sitting in the camps of the Vichy regime, but not elsewhere, and that didn't achieve anything, and the latter are about to die – I know very well that we have a responsibility. Then, of course, I remember in another role in my life, all those times with an ongoing opposition – I always thought it had a moral right to raise matters. And then I would like to say that the issues are difficult. I agree with those who now say that children are in a very vulnerable situation, and that is an expression that the Storting has understood that. And as far as I remember, in 2004, we lifted the 20-year limitation period for damages against children and young people under 18. The Stortinget then realized that this was the case, and then a law was passed. Actually, instead of trying to get as close to each other as possible – I see that the government parties are doing what they can with it, given the situation – have been in a practical situation to make sure that the people involved were harmless. Let me say it so that I have too many times in my life lived as an agent and felt that I have stuck my head in the wall, because the formal system has opposed me. That's why I'm with open eyes and knowingly and willfully with the practical proposal today, because I don't think there are so many other ways to do it. It would be the challenge of the government parties to find a practical solution, if they really believe what was in the unanimous remark. It will be. Then it's quite clear that after a long time you don't remember the legal arguments. In other contexts, they have led us to try to make reasonable compensation schemes, cheap substitutes. However, in some areas it becomes very special, and there is reason to recall how a number of Norwegian municipalities have gone into a very serious situation in relation to children with orphanages. We know the situation in this city, in Oslo, where you've really gone in and realized that this has been something you've had to clean up. There has been no political dispute about it. There's been reason to take it very seriously. My contribution – based on the knowledge that life has given me – is that the most practical and sensible thing you can do to achieve anything is to ask for support for the proposal that has been presented, because the government is asked to act in such a way that it becomes practical. If not, any responsible and serious Council of State will be in trouble between (a) the legislation, (b) the many and heavy notes of the Ministerial Advocate, which are for internal use in the government quarter, and (c) his bleeding heart in the matter. Since the purpose here is for the bleeding heart to reach, the practical expression is to vote in favour of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e743	For the treatment of St.meld. No 24 for 2004–2005, Replacement Schemes for Children in Children’s Homes and Special Schools for Children with Behavioural Disabilities, the Stortinget decided that compensation should be made through an adaptation of the Grandhold’s lavishness compensation scheme. The evidence requirements have been lowered here. Less attention shall be paid to the consequences for the individual. The emphasis shall be on self-declaration and confirmation of orphanages. The ceiling was raised to NOK 300000. Such cheap payments may be applied for even if they have been compensated by a municipal compensation scheme. The Directorate for Children, Youth and Family has received nearly 2 000 applications for compensation under the adapted lavishness scheme. In setting up the notification, the Committee supported the Ministry's assessment that there was no need for changes to the general right to compensation adapted to this group. However, the Committee provided for a comment that no limitation is made in these cases. In an action for damages brought by a former orphan, the State claimed that he was insolvent. The Committee’s assumption was an important element in the assessment of the issue of limitation. However, the State must also include several other fundamental and important elements in the overall assessment of whether limitation should be claimed. The main idea behind the rules on the limitation of claims is that the injured party should submit his claim within a reasonable period of time after the damage has been found. The burden of proof speaks for this, as evidence of what has happened, what is causing the damage, will be weakened or lost over time. Most of the considerations behind the rules of custody apply in cases like this. Documentary evidence is lost, and witnesses and perpetrators are old and, if necessary, also dead, thus being cut off from contributing to their perception and responding to serious accusations made. Witness statements will be marked by the fact that the case is some 40 years back. The problems of evidence which the courts will face in the case of orphanages are supported by the fact that the Stortinge had made a specific adjustment to its scheme for the benefit of the group. The general rule is that claims for compensation are due three years after the victim has, or should have, acquired the necessary knowledge of the damage and the person responsible. This time limit gives the injured party reasonable time. In the case where the State claimed limitation, this subjective three-year period was out of date, in addition to the objective deadlines. The plaintiff was, moreover, already awarded a compensation of NOK 725000 for the same facts on which the action against the State was based, by means of an agreement with the municipality. In addition, he/she will be able to apply for a cheap allowance for the stay at the orphanage under the adapted cheap substitute scheme of the Storting. In conclusion, I would like to make it clear that issues of limitation will be specifically assessed in each case raised against the State. The Committee's note will be included as a central element in this decision-making basis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e762	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e766	I want to ask the Council of State about one of the things she mentions in her letter of reply to the committee, where it says: «In the case which has been dealt with in the legal instrument and in which the State claimed limitation, this subjective period of three years was out of date, in addition to the objective time limits.» In the case of children and young people — and it is necessary to call these orphans ‘children and young people’ — was not the Council of State aware that the objective 20-year-old was adopted by the Stortinget in 2004? And isn't the Council of State aware that the Lawyers' Court did not decide that the subjective limitation period of three years had expired?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e776	The right to tender dealt with both the subjective three-year period and the objective 10-year period and concluded that both had expired. The law of law concentrated on the objective 20-year period. Furthermore, the Court of Law did not disagree with the conclusion of the Court of First Instance as regards the three-year period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e781	I feel that we are all struggling with this matter. We very much want to do the best for these former orphanages. I have one question – which amazes me a little – that I have been thinking about since this trial came up. That was when the state first claimed oblivion. Why did the government not instead choose to go to the step of doing something with the laws and rules to fulfill the Storting's intentions, rather than digging down into the mound with the government attorney and saying that this cannot be solved? Why in the world didn't one go the other way and solve it either practically or legally? I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e788	In the courtroom, as the representative of Davøy knows, there is a need to state the reasons for making a judgment. In other words, there must be a basis for interviewing witnesses and knowing whether claims can be met. Therefore, the State must make an individual assessment in these cases. This does not mean that you claim to be a parent in all cases, but there must be a basis for bringing matters under the evidence provided. This comment of the Committee and of the European Parliament has been legally assessed. It is an important moment when the state makes a decision whether to invoke limitation or not in the individual case, but it is not a law that is decided in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e795	I hear what the council says, but now it is so that this remark also comes from the government parties along with the rest of the Stortinget. I am a little surprised that you have not at least been morally involved with these 2,000 – perhaps even more – who have been subjected to violence and abuse by the public, assess it and base your comment on guidance, and do not use arguments such as that the person in charge had actually received 750,000 kroner from the municipality, because it has little or nothing to do with this matter. We also clearly stated that in the comments on St.meld. No 24 for 2004-2005.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e800	This includes, among other things: ethical assessments on the basis of which we have been involved in the Grand Duchy’s lavishness compensation scheme. For part of the orphanage children, it has been essential to be believed. The questioning of a trial with witnesses — who may have died — can well be as burdensome as getting a replacement from the Grand Duchy’s cheap paycheck scheme, which only focuses on what they themselves tell about, and with evidence that they have been in the current orphanage at the time. I believe it has been important in this matter. The most important thing has been that children with orphanages should be believed, even if not everything can be proved afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e805	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e810	The representatives Woldseth, Davøy and Dørum have explained in an excellent way the dilemmas and issues that we have discussed in this matter. I refer in particular to the Dørum representative's reflections on the issues of implementing the Storting's wish. It's a little thoughtful that here we are sitting with a big deal that really agrees with the matter, but where the possibility of actually implementing what's the big deal's will, beaches. I cannot say that I think the position has explained in detail why it should not be possible. It's a question of willingness to put this through. In that context, I think there's reason to draw attention to the group we're talking about. This is a group that needs something clear to deal with, a clear signal. They thought they got it. Then it is extra important to confirm it, make it visible that this is the will of the Storting. The size determines in this country, and then the size determines. It is not difficult, from a legal point of view, to understand that observations have a different weight than decisions, etc. But after all, there has been no doubt about what we have meant. We've meant what the comment says, and then you should actually stick to it. It has also been, I think, quite good reasons why one did not go deeper into this matter and made decisions at the time. That we – and we are the Storing in this context – have not managed to keep order, and have not managed to formulate ourselves in a formal way through decisions that allow this to be implemented in a credible way, should not be left to those who are at the heart of the matter: those who need a clear line. I think this is a matter of great concern. It's a matter of reflection on how the Greatness's will can actually be implemented in general. And it's a matter of reflection on our ability to meet a limited group of people. We do not cause any major problems by meeting them. I think it's boring that we can't actually do it in an adequate and proper way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e822	It's a topic within this matter that we haven't talked so much about. I was so far inside it in my post. But I want to focus a little bit on it. Among the orphanages and special schoolchildren, adults want to have their case tried in court. They have witnesses, they have documented evidence, so they don't have the opportunity. They just want to confirm through court that what they're saying is right, and they want a verdict on the state for what it's done. What you do is you eat them off with a little bit of money, like a substitute. I'm very happy about that. Many of them needed it. It was painfully intrusive. But those who actually want to get their case tried in court do not have the opportunity, despite the fact that we have a total accumulation that says that you should set a limitation aside in these matters. But we have a government lawyer, and we have a government council that says the witnesses are old and dead, and it's hard for those who want to take these things up. But believe me: those who actually dare to go so far, are able to go so far that they will try their case in court, can also stand in it, because to them it is very important. But shall we, in democratic Norway, refuse them to have their case tried in court because these matters are 29 years old? I think that is contrary to all good legal principles. I also think that it is contrary to human rights that we should not try our case. I think that's a terrible grudge. Finally, SV just said that they were behind the comment. As I've been working with SV in this committee in the last eight years, I would have thought that when SV said that, they meant it. But they are now choosing not to support the opposition in that proposal. There is nothing else in the proposal that we now want to think about:'make sure that the state does not claim to be a parent'. What we have written as a note, and as SV then supported, we now only want as a decision. I hope, with the signals given by the representative Hansen from the Chair just a moment ago, that SV supports the opposition in that proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e833	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2098]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e872	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fotation, see page 2098]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e890	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e903	The size now goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e912	During the debate Bjørg Tørresdal has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e956	During the debate, Mr S. Woldseth put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take the necessary steps to ensure that the State does not invoke limitation in matters relating to the compensation of children in orphanages and special schools between 1945 and 1980, in line with the observations of a Joint Committee on Family, Cultural and Administrative Affairs at the Innst. S. No 217 [[2004-2005]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e982	There is a vote on the proposal by Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Party for Progress, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, transmitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 13 February 2009:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e1034	There is a vote on the proposal by the Grand-Representative Gjermund Hagesetter, on behalf of the Progress Party, submitted by the meeting of the Odelstinget on 13 February 2009: ‘The government is asking for proposals to extend the tax deduction scheme for the recovery of deficits in the context of the treatment of the Revised National Budget 2009 so that companies with no surplus in the previous two years before the deficit year as well as companies with a deficit greater than 20 million. crowns, also covered by the plan.» The voting boards showed that 72 votes were cast against and 27 votes in favour of the proposal by the Progress Party. [[The vote will be taken at 5 p.m. 12.26.34]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e1046	President! I voted wrong.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e1051	Then the number of votes changes. The proposal is therefore not accepted by 73 votes to 26.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-19.ana.ud1472e1098	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
