ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e22	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Left-wing Group to the representative of Trine Skei Grande from 29 April until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Alvhild Hedstein, is invited to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e40	Alvhild Hedstein is present and will take the seat. The representative, Siv Jensen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e45	On behalf of the representatives Harald T. Nesvik, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Vigdis Giltun and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to ask the Government, by the end of 2009, to propose a ceiling on how much each individual should pay for the costs of necessary dental treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e50	The representative, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e53	I am pleased to present a proposal by Harald T. Nesvik, Vigdis Giltun, Bård Hoksrud and Jan-Henrik Fredriksen to introduce ICD 10 and ICF as a standard of treatment for neck injuries as a national treatment standard in accordance with the WHO Convention ratified by Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e58	The representative, Mr Giltun, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e61	On behalf of Harald T. Nesvik, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and myself, I would like to propose the freedom of establishment and reimbursement for psychologists and psychiatrists with authorization. At the same time, on behalf of Harald T. Nesvik, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and myself, I would like to propose the inclusion of Capio Anorexists in the free choice of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e68	The representative of Inge Wohnning will put forward three proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e72	I am delighted to make a proposal from the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself on a new national health plan. Secondly, on behalf of the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli and myself, I would like to make a proposal for a consensus conference on heroin-assisted treatment. And the third proposal is on behalf of the representatives of Sonja Irene Sjøli, Vigdis Giltun and myself for a better offer to children with autism.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e81	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e108	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen State Council Trond Gisk State Council Board Vegar Solhjell The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then begin with the first main questions from the representative, Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e127	I want to ask a question to the Minister of Health and Care. We now see in the media picture around the world that we've come up to level 4 on the World Health Organization's scale as to whether we're getting a pandemic or not. Of course, that's the swine flu I want to ask. Fortunately, we have seen today that the World Health Organisation has reduced the number of deaths associated with the swine flu in Mexico, so-called confirmed cases, from 20 to 7. But our concern in this room is, of course, also what is happening within the country's borders. Now that it looks like we have some time before we might get it to Norway, if we get it to Norway -- I think it's important that we don't manage it, but that we do things right, in the right order, and in a thorough way -- it's important that we review the plans and the preparedness we have in Norway, look at our stocks of Tamiflu, and also what Norway can contribute to developing a vaccine now that we've isolated this virus. We know that a pandemic plan has been developed on a central level. It's thick, it's rich in content, and it might look like it's a very thorough work. However, what is the big question is related to the municipalities and individual health services, which will have to deal with this if it is to break out in Norway. My question to the Council of State is: What will be done about Norwegian municipalities? Because we've seen through the media that not all municipalities are well enough prepared. There is reason to use the time now to implement and review the plans. So, what do you actually want to do to make this happen in the municipality of Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e140	I think I'll start by saying that I share a lot of the reality description that Harald T. Nesvik came up with now, that there's reason to take the situation seriously, prepare for us to face a pandemic, but that evolution so far also has some soothing features. I think the spread of this virus goes slower than you feared at first. There's also a lot of evidence that people don't get as sick as you could fear. There's a lot of evidence that people who get it get a severe flu, but most people don't get more than that. So to the question. I very much agree with Nesvik that the plans at the municipal level are very important. The municipalities are required to have a written infection protection plan and a written emergency plan. The last time we examined it was in 2007. Then it had 95 pst. by the municipalities, a written plan for the protection of infection and 90 pst. a written emergency plan by the municipalities. So it feels like it's good. But we can't settle down on that. That's why the Health Directorate yesterday held a meeting with all the statesmen. The community now contacts each municipality and asks to see the emergency plans, and they will report back to the Health Directorate during the morning on whether the plans are in order or not. If there are municipalities that do not have the plans in order, they will be followed up especially from each county office. So I think we're taking an extra check to the municipal level that things are okay. Each municipality must present its plans to the county, and we will receive a report during tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e147	Thank you for that. I thank the Council of State for the answer. I still want to follow up on one point, because we have, among other things, see from our neighbouring country Sweden today that it is now recommending the Swedish U.D. to impose travel restrictions to Mexico. We have also seen that the Office for Disease Prevention in the EU has gone out and said that it is only in completely necessary cases that one should go to Mexico. Norway has not opted for such a recommendation. Things seem to happen very quickly here now. It's only been 25 April that this snowball started rolling. My question to the Council of State is this: Will the Council of State check whether Norway can contribute financially or otherwise to the development of a vaccine for this purpose? I know we have an agreement with a company, but will Norway be able to contribute as a nation? Question no. 2: Will the Council of State itself take the initiative and ensure that the Storting will be kept constantly informed about this, so that it is also properly informed about the situation here? I think it might be very important for the nation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e156	There were a lot of questions in that article. Only in the case of travel restrictions: there is an international legislation on travel restrictions for which the WHO is responsible. The WHO has not said that they impose restrictions on travel to, for example: Mexico. But more countries have said, and our Health Directorate has also said, that for example. Trips to Mexico now should be carried out only if absolutely necessary. So we're also asking people in Norway to think about whether it's necessary to travel to Mexico. We are well in the process of evaluating the question of participation in the preparation of a vaccine. There we will also receive a recommendation from the WHO on whether they believe it is right now to give priority to the development of such a vaccine. The problem with this is that the order of such a pandemic vaccine, i.e. swine flu savaccine, will stop the possibility of getting a winter flu savaccine. So it's an important choice to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e163	There will be four follow-up questions – first Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e166	There is currently a very difficult economic situation in the municipalities. The current government has given framework conditions to the municipalities that are historically poor, in the sense that, for the first time in history, negative net operating results are now expected in the municipal accounts. This is strongly affecting the care and care sectors. It is an area in which it is cut hard – it is the message from the municipalities. We know that many municipalities struggle with low staffing and high sick leave in nursing and care institutions, and there is a generally demanding situation. Therefore, I ask this question: If, contrary to assumption, the situation would prove to be very difficult with an epidemic out in the municipalities, does the Council of State believe that this government has equipped the municipalities with the financial resources necessary to meet that problem? [[President clubs]] [[The President Clubs Again]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e173	So the number is limited, and it's a little light as it approaches the end of speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e177	It could have been tempting to answer the question in many ways that contained so many errors in the premises. However, I think I will choose to take a slightly more serious approach to it and say that when we go out and ask the municipalities to prepare for this to become a pandemic, there are no financial constraints on the state's part on what kind of plans are now to be developed. In consultation with the Ministry of Finance and the Government, we are now ordering the medicines we need, we are preparing in all sorts of ways, and there are no economic assessments that we really would have wanted to do that, but we can't afford it. We're doing what's now as right as possible to do at all levels to be prepared for a serious situation. So it's a completely artificial and sought-after issue that the representative Amundsen now addresses.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e182	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e185	The fear of pandemics has many sides, as well as the purely medical ones. It's very much about psychological conditions and mass psychological responses. In today's Bergen's Official Journal there is a great deal of notice that there are Norwegian doctors and dentists who now operate and hamster medicines for their own use and the family's use. I hope that it is a look that is exaggerated. My question to the Council of State goes on a very important side, namely how we deal with the information problem in this context. Do we have sufficient preparedness to inform the population as a whole in a factual, reassuring, proper and understandable way when these situations arise? That's also true of the cases we've had of E. coli infection lately. Does the Council of State think that our readiness to provide good information is sufficient?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e194	It is an important question raised by the representative on the pay side. There are few things in this world that are so good that they can't get better. It's in each of the themes we're discussing now, whether we have a good enough information strategy. So far, we've been working very hard to spread the address of the Public Health Institute's website, and we've linked to it in all sorts of ways. If you go into different departments, for example, there are links to the Institute of Public Health. The main way is to spread information to the media, to most people, to doctors, etc. through the Institute of Public Health. In addition, we've been working hard to inform all doctors, the health care system, which will be the natural point of contact for people who are worried for some reason. So the information should be best done out there, not just for the regular doctors, but for all registered doctors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e199	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e202	The world's breathing as we see which way the swine flu, which infects people, is going. The Christian People's Party is confident that the preparedness for Norway, as the Council of State has prepared, is good. Today we read in the Newspaper that Care Norway says that if there is a pandemic spreading all over the world, they become very concerned about the poor part of the world. We know that they can be hit hardest, because they also have other diseases such as malnutrition, etc. I also read that the World Health Organization wants to focus attention on the world's poor countries. My question is: what can the Norwegian Government do to help poor countries, including to provide them with the necessary preparedness?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e211	I think it's important for me to start by saying that that question must first of all be asked to others in the government other than me, because so far I have a very strong focus in my work on national preparedness and making sure that we as authorities take care of our own population as best we can in a potentially worsening situation. I think that is absolutely legitimate. We don't get better at helping others by not taking care of our own people. My main responsibility now is to ensure that Norway – the Norwegian authorities and our system – is best able to care for the Norwegian population. So I think it's very important that we also make available available available to the WHO in order to be able to contribute to other countries as well. There's a discussion going on. But I think the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will be better able to explain how we contribute in that way, and what we think in that way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e218	Gunvald Ludvigsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e221	Three to four years ago, the avian influenza suffered in the world, especially in Asia. After that, in December 2007, I asked a question here in the Chamber of the then Minister of Health about the Government would provide for additional purchases of Tamiflu in addition to the 1.4 million treatment courses that one had. That's the exact same number of curfews that you have today. The council replied that it could be topical and that it would be assessed. Almost two years later, nothing has happened to a strengthened Tamiflu warehouse in Norway. A sufficient stock also means security for the population. I think we will then avoid panic and hysteria – and hamstering, which was called. My question is: is the Council of State satisfied that nothing has happened since December 2007, seen in the light of the outbreak of the swine flu?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e230	The question has been considered. It's a very clear, professional advice on what kind of Tamiflu bearings we're going to have. This is based on the following reasoning: The worst scenario is that half of the population get the infection — there are experience figures from the Spanish disease, the worst we have experienced — and half of those who get the infection become sick. Then 25 pst. of the population have Tamiflu, for Tamiflu to be given when one gets sick. We have a bearing that covers 33 pst. So we have a warehouse that covers the worst scenarios that exist. So when I ask the trade unions about it – and this has been evaluated in a separate pandemic committee that we have, with a wide-ranging professional environment – they say we have enough. We have more than the worst scenario sketches that we need. Then I believe that it is such a clear, professional advice that I choose to follow it. We have followed all the technical advice we have received, and I believe that this must be the right political starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e235	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e239	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. In the Passover, the Workers' Party published a poll that shows that the party is doing relatively well in terms of credibility in education policy, and that SV is doing very badly. After three and a half years and three government councils in the department mean only 8 pst. by voters that SV is a credible educational party. In comparison, 22 pst. by the voters that the Right is a credible educational party. After all, there is a much higher figure than the 2005 election result, for example, would suggest. There may be many reasons for SV's low credibility. One could be that the voters see that SV breaks promises. In the Soria Moria Declaration, it was clear that there would be an increase in university and higher education funding, and that is actually a real downturn. The promise was also that there would be more teachers. There are fewer teachers now than in 2005. It could also be that the voters see that it's messy and chaos. Should it be a voluntary exam, or should it not? Are we going to get an aesthetic, or are we going to have more? Should colleges be allowed to continue to operate, or should the Swedish National Meeting Decision apply? It may also be that the electorate sees a lack of implementation. There's still a lot of talk and little action, and 20 pst. students still cannot read and write properly when they leave high school. What does the Council of State think is the reason for the low credibility of the SV among education policy voters?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e252	It is up to the authority to measure the confidence of both the SVs, the Right and the others. And my impression is that not only SV, but also Right could want a better number on the power line than what we have on the polls today. And then I think that the main picture of the voters is now in school policy, as in many other fields, is that we've been through a reverse operation and a cleanup after the previous government. First of all, we now see for the first time in over ten years that the results of international studies and our own studies are increasing. The international TIMSS study, which was published before Christmas, shows a progress for Norwegian elephants in mathematics, especially in mathematics and natural sciences at the fourth stage. Secondly, we see a reverse operation when it involves interest in the teaching profession. After several years of decline, we now have a growth in the search for the 35 pst teacher education. – the sovereign winner in Coordinate Recording. It is after we have now made extensive efforts to give teachers more support in school and further training, but also to recruit more people for the profession. Furthermore, we have now been through a cleaning-up process after the Right-dominant government started an extensive privatisation of the Norwegian school. We have prevented that it is that some states have up to one in four elephants in private schools. Instead of having a bunch of schools run by the John Bauer group, for which the Right-Registration opened, we've got them placed on the side-line, so that there's still going to be a public common ground in Norway. These are the things the debate is going to be about: are we going to continue with a bet on the public sphere and strengthen the teachers, instead of blaming them, and improve the wide learning environment and knowledge of the school for the years to come?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e265	This must be the strangest reverse operation in history. Would it be necessary to provide fewer teachers in school? Should it be necessary to provide less funding for universities and colleges? That's what I think is a very strange turnaround. In the class struggle on 25 April this year, the Council of State claims that the study is: ‘a sign that we have bean-solid trust from the voters in the school policy we conduct’. In this context, it must mean solidly placed on the bench, I would think. In the red-green Trondheim exhibition window, a central school politician says: ‘We have had two weak state councils, it must be allowed to say here. Ap has to take back the Department of Knowledge. School policies are too important to be managed by the SV.’ One more follows: ‘Ap has not been able to fill the void created by Soljell’.» Is it a challenge for the Council of State that central labour party politicians will remove SV from the ministry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e289	No, but what's a challenge is that the representative provides the wrong information from the Stockholm Chair. First of all, there have been more teachers than it was when the red-green government took over. By going to the Base School Information System, a check can be made, it will be published by the Statistical Central Bureau. The learning density has increased, so the groups are getting smaller -- not as much as we should have wanted, but unlike in the previous period, when the learning density went down a little bit every year, the trend is reversed, it can be found in the same statistics. Permits for both higher education and research have increased. And the research permits have increased far more under the red-green government, by $3.5 billion, than what they did under the previous government, as they increased by something over $2 billion. So the impression that the representative is trying to give here on Stortingen's speaking chair is wrong. More attention has been paid to higher education and higher education, which is why better results have been achieved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e298	There will be four follow-up questions – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e301	Time is running fast. Øystein Djupedal – then Minister of Knowledge – said to VG on 27 May 2007 about SV’s school policy: ‘We have chosen the wrong one.’ In addition, it says: ‘Knowledge Minister Øystein Djupedal gives himself impressions: he admits that SV has not given enough emphasis to knowledge in school.’ One year later, in May 2008, a somewhat bitter former government councillor named Djupedal said something like this: SV lacked a comprehensive education policy. We simply reviewed an educational policy that was lightly thoughtful and easy to attack. So the real question is whether SV has some credibility in school policy to lose.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e315	We have carried out important improvements and a reverse operation after the previous government, and we continued to do so in the next period. We need even more teachers than the improvement we've had in this period. That's why it's important that we see a strong growth in recruitment just for teacher training, and that municipalities get more money. Now, both the Swedish Labour Party and the Labour Party have agreed that one needs a clearer national device and management and a framework to get the teachers into the classroom. Then we also need to work even better with the contents of the school, not least through an extended school day where we improve the contents of the school and the SFO, and get more physical activity into the school. And not least, we need to keep the Progress Party and the Right out of government offices because they want to relaunch the privatisation wave that we were forced to clean up after the previous government set up, supported by the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e322	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e325	In the context of the exchange of words between the Council of State and the representative of Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide, it must be allowed to recall that there are state councils which have an information obligation, which are even constitutional. The councils are obviously very happy with spin-offs. So is his party. The Swedish National Assembly, as far as I can see, decided to nationalise the educational advocacy schools, the Steinerskolan and the Montessori School. So they have to be deprived of their right of self-determination and built into the public school system. And you want to ban private life schools. Is there also a reverse operation in the sequence of the many reverse operations that we can expect to be realized in the next magnification period?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e332	There is probably no reverse operation, because in the sentence before the pay goal in our program, it says that SV wants to defend today's private school law – the one we have implemented to prevent the extensive privatisation of the school that Right has agreed to. So in the program for the next four years, SV insists that we defend today's private school law. It is no secret that SV has for many years been strongly critical of a development against having many religious private schools in Norway. But we're very satisfied with the laws we've put forward. That is why the programme also says that in the next four years we will defend that promise.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e339	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e343	The fact that SV's trust in school policy is weak does not surprise me. It is quite unlikely that despite the fact that this government has $180 billion more than the previous government, the only thing they managed to get to school in 2008 was eight new teachers. What they managed to do, on the other hand, was introduce seven more weektimes for the very smallest students. It's very special that the party that wants six hours' work day for adults will have more sculeti for the very least. If you see a bad movie that lasts for three hours, will he be better off spending one more hour? No, he gets better if one fills it with content and quality. If there is something that can create quality in school, we know that there are more and better teachers. Will SV continue to bet on several hours instead of betting on more teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e350	This is a good example of the fact that if a school is really a priority, it must be understood that both the number of hours and the contents of the hours are important. This post is in a slightly strange light, all the time the Christian People's Party in the previous period, when they were actually running, went in to expand the number of hours in the base sphere. There is no doubt that it has been right to continue with it, not only in Norwegian, math and English, but also with physical activity, which has been done in this period. That is why we must continue to do so. At the same time, we have implemented, through the GNIST campaign, an extensive effort to get more teachers, starting to give results in the form of an enormous increase in the search for teacher training, we give more further education to the teachers, we create a separate principal training from the fall off, and we start off by saying that too much bureaucracy and other tasks dominate the working day. So we have to bet on more teachers with more skills, but also on an expanded and better day at school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e355	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e358	It seems that the Council of State Solhjell also has some experience with national meetings. Then I have to ask the following question: Is it such that it is Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg who is the unique interpreter of SV's National Meeting Decision, or is it SV's Vice President, the Council of State or the Party SV itself? Because we were in the room when the prime minister in the spontaneous questioning class was asked about SV’s turnaround – from one side to saying that you should have fresh chairs, and on the other hand, saying that you don’t like them and should get rid of them. The Prime Minister said that it is not appropriate to implement this policy. When are we going to hear so clearly from SV about the strange decision that the Council of State was voted upon and that would in practice ban private schools, which would in practice abolish Steinerskole and Montessori schools and allow them to survive as possible state branches during public school? When are we going to hear something from SV that is as clear and clear as what the Prime Minister said in this Chamber? Or is it that SV has now delegated to Prime Minister Stoltenberg to interpret SV, because you can't do it yourself?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e363	This article was possibly banned before my previous reply. As Dørum might avoid noticing, it says in our new program for the next big time that we are going to defend today's private school law. Other formulations about private shelters that stand there apply in the long term. Obviously, it can't be what our policy is for the next four years. We want to defend today's private school law. So it's true that Left and SV have different views of private spheres. The left has chosen not to participate in the agreement we have entered into with the Christian People's Party, which limits the privatisation of the school. They have a seat in a government that led a policy that opens up the commercialisation of the school through several private schools, and they have had a more positive view that the elephants can go to religious private schools than the SV have had. So that discussion will continue. But the most important thing in the next period is to prevent the Left, Right and Advance Party from opening up a massive privatisation of schools, with commercial actors, and that we can defend today's private school law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e370	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e373	I would like to ask the Minister of Health and Health a question. In the autumn of 2007, the government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left signed an agreement to strengthen care for the elderly. The first point of the agreement was the strengthening of the rights of the elderly through the introduction of a dignity guarantee. This was to happen in the context of a common health and social legislation which, at the time, by the then Minister of Health, was said to be close at hand. This case has not even been sent to the hearing. The National Audit Office’s report on older people who do not receive proper care today has made it more visible that there is now an urgent need to strengthen older people’s rights. Right to accommodation when needed, exclusive space, organisation for dentures, proper medicine, the right to manage your own daily rhythm, good nutrition and daily services are some of the content of the dignity guarantee that the Government has promised to implement. My question is, When will the Council of State strengthen the rights of the elderly through the guarantee of dignity?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e382	It's an important and understandable question that the representative Davøy raises here. The answer to the question is that through the work on the coordination reform, we chose to stop the work on common health and social legislation, because we see that, as a result of the coordination reform, we will face a significant strengthening of municipal health services. That is why we have said that it will be wrong to submit to the hearing a legislative proposal that does not address the consequences of the interaction reform. After all, most of the conclusions of the cooperation reform have now been drawn. There will be a big announcement during June, where the Government will outline its policy in this area. Then we're going to start over again with the law audit work, because then we'll have the foundation we need to describe the future municipal health care, which we think is necessary to get in place, and which I think will be quite a broad political uprising about. I believe that the representative Davøy and the Christian People's Party will like the ones who can read. Then we have to speed this up, because it's been a postponement. By this I mean to say that I am aiming to present a proposal for a new, common health and social law in the spring 2010 session.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e391	The government lacks an overview of the number of new year’s work to which the sickest elderly live. In the last few days, the Christian People's Party has collected an overview of a number of municipalities that either tell about fewer caregivers or that the number of annual work has remained unchanged in the last few years. In over 50 pst. Of the answers we find this. More reports, including: from the Health Inspectorate, reports failure of the care services of the elderly. Older people don't get the help they need. In many cases, medication is not appropriate. The Council of State does not see the need to strengthen the rights of the elderly per year. Today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e398	I well answered that question in my first answer, which is what is the timetable for presenting a proposal for new, common health and social law. I think it would have been pointless to present the bill now – and then start to change it immediately, as a result of the interaction reform. I feel that it is quite logical that the two reforms should go hand in hand. What is wrong with the last article by the representative, Mr Davøy, is that there has not been a strengthening of the number of people employed in the care services in the municipalities, since 2004 there have been more than 10,000 more annual jobs in the care sector. And what has so far been a point on the part of the Christian People's Party and others is that this is a number that only the Central Statistical Bureau has stood for. But the latest figures from the Municipal Councils' Central Ban also say that there are now more than 10,000 new annual works. Then you can say that it is too small – but there are 10,000 new annual works! The government has thus fulfilled its promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e405	There will be four follow-up questions – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e409	We were all able to follow the so-called negotiations on the earlier agreement of the government parties with the Christian People's Party and the Left. The Right Party and the Advance Party believed that these were just words on a paper – that there was little content when it applied to the value of it. Unfortunately, we have seen that the agreement with the Christian People's Party and the Left has not been followed up – but there will be a matter between the Christian People's Party, the Left and the Government. My question to the Council of State concerns the following: The Council of State has now repeated that, in terms of the annual work to which reference is made, only the Central Statistical Agency and the Government refer to the number. But we have never asked whether there has been a new year's work in the care sector. What the opposition has raised is that the Prime Minister has repeatedly said: 10,000 new annual works in the care of the elderly. And there's 4,400-4,900 new annual works. What's the Council's comment on that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e419	I want to start by saying that I am pleased that we agree that this government has provided more than 10,000 new annual jobs in the care and care sector. It's a step forward – and a pretty impressive piece of work. So there are statistics for 2004-2008, and it is great if the head of the Health and Welfare Committee agrees with us that in those years we have strengthened the care and care sector with over 10,000 annual works. If we take 2005 as our starting point, the policy led to the government supported by the Progress Party to fewer annual works from 2004 to 2005. So if we were to assume that when we took over, the number is much higher than 10,000. And that's good. And it's quite true, as Harald Tom Nesvik says, that sometimes the term "parent care" is used instead of "care and care". It is wrong, and the Prime Minister has also said that you should not – it becomes unexplained. There is self-criticism in it, for the promise concerns the care sector. That's where we have statistics, and that's where we can prove that we're fulfilling our promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e428	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e431	I'm not quite sure if what the Council of State now did was take self-criticism on behalf of the Prime Minister – or whether it was a criticism addressed to the Prime Minister. But as Harald Tom Nesvik pointed out, the Prime Minister has often said just that – 10,000 new annual works for the care of the elderly. If we finally agree that there is half of these annual works in height that have gone to care for the elderly, there is at least one step towards a little bit more clarity. The so-called agreement, which the Right Party and the Advance Party chose to stand outside, has proved to be an entirely non-binding and non-negotiable settlement. I perceive the Council's response to Laila Davøy so that the dignity guarantee concept has been depreciated once and for all. Is it true that the government has so far done nothing to follow up the settlement agreement with the Left and Christian People's Party?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e441	No, that's not right, because that agreement is about something more than the guarantee of dignity. It's about more employees, it's about more homes, and it's about more hospitals. In the field by field, we attach great importance to this agreement, because we are very concerned that serious, genuine parties in the Storting, such as the Christian People's Party and the Left, should of course be taken seriously by us as a contracting party. But in one area we are so far not satisfied with the way we have managed to follow up the agreement. That is what we are going to do when dealing with common health and social law. Then we're going to have a good and proper process with both the Christian People's Party and the Left on how the guarantee of dignity can be expressed in the bill we're going to present to the Stortinge in spring 2010. I've explained why we're going to have a postponement of it. It is a very bad thing that the Right has chosen to sit down at the same time when it comes to such important talks about an important social sector in Norway, but that is a position Right has to stand for itself. The Christian People's Party and the Left shall be heavily involved in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e448	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e451	First, I must thank the Council of State for fine words on the Christian People's Party. So to the matter: no matter how a person turns around and turns around and discusses numbers in this case, it's about local economy. It is the economy of municipalities that is crucial for how many positions we can have in the age gap and in the care of the elderly. Unfortunately, the situation is such in over half of the country’s municipalities that one in these days does not increase the number of staff but a kutter in the number of positions in the care of the elderly. It's serious. At the same time, Stortinget has decided to improve the situation — getting dignity into care for the elderly. When I hear the Government's response, he says yes to it. It makes sense that there will be a reform and that one should look at the whole of this reform. But what I've also heard is that it's moving – until 2012. So my question is, what will the Council of State do in the meantime, before a reform takes place, when it comes to the situation of the individual nursing home in Norway, where one needs more and not fewer jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e460	I understand that you can ask questions about my use of numbers. I also understand that you do not fully trust that the Central Statistical Office can count. I think that's a little more eye-catching. But let me say the following: KS, the central association of municipalities, has, based on its human resources system, i.e. the PAI register, estimated that the growth over the period 2004-2008 is about 10,700 annual works. So I mean, okay, you don't trust the department, you don't trust the central statistical agency, but I don't think the central government of the municipalities has any interest in over-communing the numbers they've got here. KS itself now says that the growth is over 10,000 years old, and then they estimate that about two thirds of the work is done in the care of the elderly. Thus, if KS’s assessment is correct, there are over 7 000 more annual work in the care of the elderly. Then you could say that that's not enough, but there's 7,000 more. I think you can go back and look at the numbers from the time the Christian People's Party was in government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e465	Gunvald Ludvigsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e468	The left hand side is a real game. As the Council of State said, we have signed with the Government Party and the Christian People's Party on an earlier settlement. And one of the most important points there was the construction of several hospitals. Here we must say that the Government has failed in total. The gap between need and supply has increased. When hundreds of people who need hospitalization do not get a place as soon as they need a place, there is something seriously wrong with the governance and priorities of this country. My question to the Council of State is quite simple: will the Council of State here and now give a proper answer to a proper party and promise the construction of several sick homes, so that the most needy can look forward to a worthwhile life in the final phase of life?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e475	Yes, this is a very good example of us cooperating well with the Left once we have made agreements with the Left. If you go back to the time when the government presented this last major package of measures, you will see that in the construction of nursing homes and nursing homes arranged for the care and care of good luck, we will be at a level similar to that for which there were applications. So based on the level that we then agreed to, all the applications from the municipalities for the construction of these kinds of institutions could be met. It is a bit demanding for the Government to build hospitals that the municipalities have not planned to build. It is therefore a little difficult for us to go further into this than what was the starting point for the last assessment of this issue by the Government in respect of the agreement – with a real party – namely that all the applications could be met with the legal framework we then agreed on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e485	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e488	I have a question for the Minister of Knowledge. The left is absolutely critical of the teacher being a clear leader in the job as a teacher, being safe as a professional and safe as an adult. I have noticed that the Council of State, following a challenge in the media for some time ago, gave five obligating promises to Norwegian teachers. One of the promises was that you would get more time for communication. I am aware that the Council of State has put down a sample that looks at time use. What worries me and the left is that when I travel around schools, in different places, and when I get e-mails, I get feedback from teachers who are the way I now say they should be – they're clear teachers, they're safe in what they do, they're safe professionals – but they tell me about a documentation that's so extensive that you have to start wondering if the legal process in Norway has become so extensive that the documentation becomes a goal in itself. So, there's so much evidence of fear that some student someday will come with a lawyer and file a case against a school. It is approaching – without comparison – the situation we have so far in the United States, where sometimes people do not dare to help with fear of having a lawsuit against themselves. This is a development that at least worries the Left, because we realize that things should be shown separately, and we understand that things should have quality. But we attach great importance to achieving quality through good education, good relations and cooperation between students and teachers and through good cooperation with parents. But when the documentation requirements become as comprehensive as this, I can understand the messages I get back. My question to the Council of State is: does the Council of State share this concern about a red tape that goes across most of the things that politicians think, where it can almost look like parts of the administration go on autopilot? Does the Council share this concern about red tape?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e501	Yes, I share that concern. That's why we've seen quite a lot of work going on. Let me first say that my very clear impression is that most teachers and principals who work in Norwegian school are very skilled – they do a good and conscientious job, and they have a good room to do that work. It is also quite interesting to see that when parents are asked what they think about the teachers they have experienced for their own children, they give very positive feedback. When asked for the general image of the teachers, the feedback is much less positive. I think that's a sign that the review that a too often gives is more negative than the reality out there. I believe that one of the major challenges we face is what the representative addresses: how can we ensure that teachers can be teachers and give teachers their time back to the students, to the core tasks: teaching, preparing for education and following up with assessment – the things that teachers have gone into the profession and where they really have professional competence. The representative addresses one issue around it, that documentation requirements have increased in different ways, not least due to legalisation of society. And that's one of the issues we've asked the Time Usage Selection to look at. But I think we also have to look at other things. Does it, for example: is there a loss of professional competence in other areas of the municipalities? Should we strengthen other parts of the school – the apparatus around the teachers, the assistants, the social educational tasks or the municipal level? Then we must dare to look at ourselves, national authorities, local authorities. Do we impose a set of tasks that are all well-meaning, but which in total are too many, and which remove some of the most important things? So yes, I share that concern. That's why we started a research project, a time-use selection. But as the representative is quite sure: this is a comprehensive and demanding work, but we are forced to stop this bureaucracy and make sure to give teachers more of the way back to the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e512	My messages come from such teachers as the Council of State talks about. I think they like their job, they like the job, and they're professionally skilled. I have received an e-mail describing documentation requirements, i.e. bureaucracy, and let me say this: The left is the first to be a follower of a good evaluation, a good assessment, especially one that allows students to stretch and get better. But in the debate on the evaluation/evaluation regulations in the school that are now out, I have received two clear messages from teachers. First of all, there is deep concern about the red tape. But then another thing: when you read this in a context, it can almost look as if the teachers have all the duties and students all the rights, and in any normal human society there has to be a balance between rights and obligations if you are to get a result. My question is, will the Council of State ensure that such a balance exists between rights and obligations in the evaluation regulation, and will he give the Storting a chance to be sure of that? We can't serve the fact that legalization leads to the directorate's policy making, while we politicians want a different policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e519	The question here is what kind of rules you should have and how you should give feedback and assessment to your students. The Education Directorate has sent quite a number of proposals for changes. I'll have that on my table in a short time. Then I want to get into it thoroughly. I have also received the same responses and feedback as the representative, but I also want to make it clear that there are quite different things. These are single points that relate to the relationship between the teacher and the student – who actually has the authority, who actually should be the one that sets the standard. But it is also about how we can better and more systematically ensure that all teachers give feedback regularly and systematically to the individual student and they suggest how the student can improve and what is good. But I can assure you that I will be thoroughly involved in the questions, that I am not locked on any of them; it is a real hearing. I'm going to be busy that we should have a good assessment, but also that we should not impose unnecessary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e524	The President will also allow four follow-up questions – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e527	It is important that the follow-up to quality in school does not become too bureaucratic and overtime for the teacher, because then the teacher does not have the opportunity to do what the teacher should, that is, learn his or her knowledge of the students, and that is very important. But the frustration of teachers is not just about bureaucracy and rights and duties. This also applies to matters such as: issues and concerns in Norwegian schools that have become — and have been — a major challenge. For the Progress Party, it's important that we have clear leaders in the classroom, and they have the power to carry out what they're actually saying. Now we've just heard that the Education Directorate has said that teachers can no longer expel students from single hours. What should a teacher in frustration do, when a student doesn't give up – troubles, ruins for all the other students, doesn't get any benefit on his own? What are the actions left of the teacher in the leadership role?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e536	I don't know if the representative has been in the media in the last few days, but a few days ago I told you that we want to make a proposal for a change of law that is going through that point and make sure that the teacher has the opportunity to implement the sanctions, for example. is in the Rules of Procedure, so that we let go of that discussion, because there is no doubt that it is the teacher who is the head of the classroom. And we need teachers we give more authority, not where we have to have a discussion if they have that authority. So I think this is about a wider range of things. My starting point is that we see that most teachers in Norway are skilled professionals who have a natural authority and who can get a classroom to be a place for learning. But we have to give it the support, the help and the direction you need. That's why we now have, among other things. changing teacher education — as agreed by the Stortinget — where we will place greater emphasis on that part of the teacher’s role in future education. We will also continue to work with teachers' authority in different ways, so that they will be strengthened in due time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e543	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e546	There are now many teachers in independent schools who are very uncertain whether they have a job after 2009, if SV is still in government. And there's something very strange about a decision that says, on the one hand, that one should defend the decision to allow religious and pedagogical alternatives, while the next sentence of the decision says that the same schools should be closed. The council said in a reply to Odd Einar Dørum instead that it couldn't be clearer. It is possible that I am not very intelligent, but to me it does not seem particularly clear how it is possible at the same time to both defend a law that allows religious and pedagogical alternatives, while at the same time deflecting the same schools if SV continues in government. Perhaps the Council of State can help make it even clearer, so that all the teachers who work at Steinerskole, at Montessori schools and at Christian schools, all the students who go there, all the parents who have their children there, get an explanation of what is really the content of the SV National Meeting Decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e553	State Council Soljell chooses even if he/she wants to answer, as the theme changed slightly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e557	I would very much like to answer, because I think the greatest uncertainty about the future of the private spheres in Norway is something completely different. Now we have a plurality in Stortinget that clearly says, including SV in our program, that today's private school law will be passed if we win the election. There is an insecurity here – we must start a new private ball debate if the Right Party, the Advance Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party get multiples in Norway, for the Right Party and the Advance Party start a big privatisation of the school last time, and go in for a new round. You can laugh at that, but the points of view are in the programme of the Right and the Progress Party: they want a new round of private school laws that opens up for more privatisation. We're going to vote for today's private school law to continue. In addition, we have a different wording where it is in the long term. But when it comes to the next period, it's clear from today's government that the private sphere we have is going to continue. It's my impression that those who work in those schools are also aware of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e564	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e567	The last three years have shown that it is not possible – at least this government cannot – to fulfill the promise in both several hours and several teachers. The Christian People’s Party prioritises more teachers. But it is an important goal of school policy to adapt education to each individual student, so that one feels that they are seen and challenged at their level. Today's school looks in many ways at the student as an average, and to show it: if you have an arm in the area and one in the freezer, the average is pretty good – but just like something happens on the outer edges, something happens on the outer edges of today's school. To be able to customize this, a good teacher is one of the key pieces, a teacher who is safe in the role he is in. Today, after four years of education, they get straight into the teaching profession and get a rough start. The Christian People's Party has said that we want a year of guidance, a mentor, the first year of work. The government will follow it in part, with an offer for such a guide year or an introduction year. Why does the Council of State not make this a mandatory offer?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e574	I share that reasoning in many ways that we have failed to give enough challenges to the most professional students at one end, or enough support for those who wear the most professionally, at the other end. It's a huge challenge. One of the answers is just the teachers' competence, that there are enough teachers, and how teachers can work with this in school. In the context of the new teacher training, we have agreed to strengthen both that side of the education itself, and not least that all teachers in the school will be offered a 2010 guide. I think taking the first step – that everyone can actually get an offer of a mentor or counsellor in the first year – is a big enough challenge. That means that teachers all over Norway have the opportunity to get the extra support. It is not least important to prevent as many people today as they do in the first few years after going to school. I think we're some about painting here. If it's going to be mandatory by the end of the day, we can discuss it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e583	Borghild Tenden - to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e586	One of the five promises to teachers is more expertise. How does this not harmonize with extending teacher training to a five-year master's course, and only allowed 2,000 out of 80,000 teachers to receive further training each year? It will take approx. 30–40 years before teachers will receive follow-up training at the pace set by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e591	When I took over, we had a teacher education that unfortunately had significant weaknesses, which we have therefore made extensive changes in. One of the most important changes is just to give room for a greater professional deepening of teachers by dividing into two runs. More learners, not least in their early life, will take a higher level of professional education. In connection with this, we also demand that a person should have professional competence in the youth field in order to teach in all subjects. There is an extensive reinforcement of that page, while giving more room to strengthen the page that is on the lease – actually understanding what is happening among the students in the classroom. We also did not have a permanent system of further education. We have made extensive efforts to continue training in connection with the promise of knowledge. For the first time, we now have a permanent system that allows several thousand learners to pursue further education. There's no bet in numbers that's the big challenge there. The problem is that we've had a recruitment situation where we're tired of getting enough temporary workers so that even as few as a few thousand can take further training. That's why we have to increase this at the rate that the recruitment of the teacher's profession tolerates.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e598	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e601	I would like to ask the Minister of Knowledge a question. The Progress Party has, with concern, seen a 2009 which has been quite special in the field of school policy. It seems that the Council of State is not in control of the legislation he himself is to deal with. 21 January we could read in Budstikka that the school does not have teachers to follow up a student who is very, very good in math, who wants to take the 10th grade exam. He was not allowed to do that because the legislation prevented it. A few days later we read in the same Budstikka that the minister said yes, he got a green light from the knowledge minister, Mr. Bård Vegar Solhjell, to take the math exam for the 10th grade anyway. In February, the county councillor in Hordaland, former SV representative Kjellbjørg Lunde, said that lessons are prohibited. The Council of State moved out and said that the management of his legislation was wrong, homework was allowed. Then March comes, and then there's a person in the 10th grade who has one day a week on a farm in a project called "In on the Tune". He was no longer allowed to do that by the county councillor of the South Trøndelag, who administers the law on behalf of the state council. But then it didn't take long before the councillor Lord Vegar Solhjell reacted. The journalist asks whether the county has misinterpreted the law, and the Council of State answers: ‘It must be due to a misunderstanding’. So in April – this toy that we were so far into before – where the Education Directorate says that it is not allowed to send students at the same time for single hours. The same day, or the next day, the Council of State came out and said that one could still send students at the same time. These examples show that the Council of State is unable to obtain a uniform interpretation of the legislation it administers. How long does the Council of State think you can live with a council of states that can't do this, before his credibility disappears completely?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e612	I can live with this council for a long time, and my impression is that we can win the election, too, if the red-green government. So I don't see what these things have in common, except for one thing, that there are things where something quite normal happens: there's a discussion about how to interpret a code – it happens in most sectors – and political leadership has to step in and explain what the policy is. That's what they have in common. In all areas, this has just happened: we have made it clear that it is possible to take the exam before one comes in 10th grade, we have made it clear that it is possible to think about teaching arrangements, we have made it clear that lessons are common in Norwegian schools, and we have made it clear that it is possible for teachers to exercise sanctions. One thing that's different in the last case is that we're changing the law because we see that the promise we had didn't clarify well enough. At the other points, it was enough to clarify what actually applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e619	One should try to have the Council of State as a leader, so that such interpretation problems do not happen – but I would like to ask my follow-up question to the Council of State Gish. At a meeting of the Council of State Giske on 22 April in Trondheim Labour Party's representation, slaughtered – according to the Class struggle – the working party top John Stene, who is the head of the Health and Welfare Committee in Trondheim City Board, both the National Council of Solhjell and the forerunner. Giske himself has experience as Minister of Education and was present in the Chamber. The quotation from Stone is as follows: ‘We have had two weak state councils, it must be allowed to say here. Ap has to take back the Department of Knowledge. School policies are too important to be managed by the SV.’ Do the Councils agree with that statement?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e632	I take it more as a sign that the missing person in Trondheim Labour Party after the Minister of Education from 2000 to 2001 is strong and present. But in fact, the school policy that the Government stands for, the issues presented in the Storting and the budgets proposed, are the result of an overall government policy. It is not the case that in the Ministry of Knowledge it is the SV that governs the policy, and in the Ministry of Culture it is the Workers' Party that governs the policy. The policy of a government is a common project. This is also the case in education policy. We have made formidable promises in the knowledge sector – this is what my colleague behind me can answer very well for. But I think the entire government as such is proud that we stopped the privatisation that Kristin Clemet was doing, that we strengthened the municipal economy that ensures that we have good framework conditions for the students, and that through these eight years we have raised between 1,300 and 1,400 schools, thanks to the package that was proposed in 2001, which the previous government tried to cut several times, but which Solhjell has followed up to the point and the point.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e644	There will be two follow-up questions – first Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e647	My follow-up question goes to Councillor Solhjell. The list referred to by the representative Anundsen is long and longer. We've been dealing with a topic earlier today about incubators and what is current policy from SV and the Government. When we dealt with the new private school law, several of us thought that the tightening up of access to schools at best represented a grey zone case in relation to human rights and the right to choose education for their children. When State Council Solhjell and the Government argued that as long as religious and pedagogical alternative schools were allowed, there were human rights. In the aftermath of the national meeting, former Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal said in the evening post that the decision is unwise and that it is likely to be contrary to human rights. Who's right here? Is the former Council of State Øystein Djupedal, or is it the decision adopted by SV? Is it permitted within human rights to prohibit religious and private alternative schools?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e656	Of course, it is unmistakable for SV to pursue a policy in this area that violates human rights. What says when it comes to human rights is that one has the right to choose education in line with his over-interpretation — from his parents. I believe that the various issues referred to in the original question, which the representative also came up with, are a typical example of what happens in all sectors, namely that there is a discussion about how to understand and interpret a regulation. An advantage of being a Council of State is that a fairly quickly can get into the cases and clarify them so that sensible things can continue, and so that one can possibly change the rules and laws where one sees that they do not function properly. That's what these things have in common, and that's part of the job of being a government council, for example. Minister of Science.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e661	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e664	I was once present at a country meeting in the left, where we were going down Kongsberg, i.e. We did that, but as leadership in the party we found out that we couldn't put Kongsberg down, so we had new voting the next day. Can I see it this way, after having heard (a) Prime Minister Stoltenberg a few weeks ago and (b) Council of State Solhjell today, that the Council of State Solhjell at this moment declares the SV's adopted national meeting that the Montessori School, the Steiner School and religious schools, for a sentence that does not exist, that is powerless and dead? Should I understand that the Council of State has been given a mandate, or given such authority, that this part of the SV's programme is non-existent, even if the words are there, so that we should almost view it as a type of keypress error or a technical error in the programme? Should we understand it this way? For there is only a unique clarification that applies in such cases. SV could have done as Left did when we had done a blunder, it did not. How are we supposed to understand that? Has the Council of State liquidated the hopeless sentence of abolishing the private schools... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e673	I can understand, if the Left decided to drop Kongsberg City, that one made about that decision. But in this case, it is quite explicit in our program that we want to defend today's private school law. That's what I and others have done too many times – from here on in the media. Therefore, in my view, there is no substantial doubt as to what would be the outcome if the red-green government were to win the election. On the other hand, there is considerable doubt as to what would be the outcome if we got a bourgeois waltziger, because there are three out of four parties in favour of a major change in today's private school law. That's what's going to be debated in the election campaign. Should we re-privatisation of the school? Are commercial operators going in? Should John Bauer and other groups who intend to spend money on this, look for ways to do it? Or are we going to have a law that's now working, that's taken care of, that allows us to use the resources to strengthen the public school?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e680	The oral question time is now over, and we're going to the ordinary question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e685	There will be some changes in the set question list, and the President will show in that context the overview of the representatives' seats in the room. The President proposed that the proposed changes in today's Question Time be approved, as agreed. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Transport, will be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 2, from the representative Anne Margrethe Larsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs, who has been away. Question 4, from the representative Per-Kristian Foss to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion, falls away because the representative is not present. Question 7, from the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for Renewal and Admdinistration, will be postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e704	From the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Transport: ‘Proposal for NTP 2010-2019 states: ‘The Government is committed to testing different models of funding for transport projects in order to further develop the knowledge related to the efficient use of resources.’ Nevertheless, the Government will not open up several OPS projects and project financing and debt financing were cancelled by the Government all in the 2007 budget. Recently, at its national meeting, the Workers' Party has agreed to project funding. Will the Government now expand and amend the funding base for NTP 2010-2019?’ This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e716	This question, from the representative Anne Margrethe Larsen to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Development on behalf of the Minister for Foreign Affairs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e719	‘The humanitarian situation in Sri Lanka is referred to as one of the worst in the world, and the war situation is very serious. It is assumed that approx. Now 50,000 people are colliding at 12 square miles. In ‘no-four-zone’ a large number of civilians are killed. The population lacks water, food and medical help. Tonight, speakers of the LTTE have surrendered, and the UN Security Council is discussing Sri Lanka. World society has an obligation to protect. What can Norway do, together with the UN and humanitarian organisations, to prevent a humanitarian disaster?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e726	I would like to thank the representative for asking a very central question in international policy today. I would also like to say that the reports we get from the war zone are heartbreaking. Many Norwegian Tamils — many of them represented here today — naturally think of their loved ones, of family members. At the airport in New York, when I was going home from the United States two days ago, I met a family who had lost two sisters and a brother just in the past couple of weeks. These are heartbreaking descriptions we get to share in. 6,500 civilians are dead, according to the United Nations. In addition, there are many dead soldiers on both sides. It's young boys and girls, often from the villages of Sri Lanka, so it's not fundamentally different from the civilians. It's a little bit of water, and it's a little bit of food. Doctors Without Borders people in the area tell of many amputations. In short, it is a terrible humanitarian situation, which the Red Cross characterises as almost catastrophic. This situation could have been avoided if both the government and the Tamil Tigers had gone into a worthy end to the war, instead of continuing the fighting. In the last three months, the international community, and Norway have been very active, strongly appealing to both sides to find such an organized way to end the fighting. Norway has faced a major dilemma in how we are to deal with this, because we have an insight into Sri Lankan conditions that are very few outside Sri Lanka. We've thought that our influence is directly limited. Talking in large words in Norwegian media has almost zero effect on Sri Lanka. On the other hand, if we can work closely with major powers that influence Sri Lanka – the United States, Japan, India, the EU – our ability to influence events is greater, and that is the line we have chosen. In particular, we have worked within the group, the so-called Co-Chairs, which is the United States, Japan, the EU and Norway. We've had a telephone conference in that group every two or every three days to see how we can mobilise the resources of the international community to influence the situation. There is also an important part of the background that Sri Lanka has come up to the UN in different ways — that is, the initiatives taken from individual countries within this group, where the United States in particular has been active. I would like to add that I discussed Sri Lanka with the UN Secretary-General, Ban Ki-moon last night, and in the days before that with American leaders in Washington, to look again at what we can do in this completely critical situation. What Norway has been able to contribute is ideas, views, insights, knowledge of the actors and, above all, the fact that we as the only player in international society have a direct line with the Tamil Tigers. It's the parties that can solve the problem. The international community can put pressure on them and strongly stimulate them to do something. But the parties themselves have the weapons, they are the ones who are responsible, and they are the ones who have to be responsible for the decisions they are making against the sentence of history. So there must be no doubt that the responsibility lies with the Sri Lankan Government and President Rajapaksa and with the Tamil Tigrens and their leader, Prabhakaran. In the case of LTTE, there has been telephone contact with the Tamil Tigers every two or every three days. I myself have spoken to them many times, with their political leader, Nadesan, who is inside the little strip that Tigrene still controls, and with their newly appointed foreign spokesman, Kumaran Pathmanathan. The message to the Tigers has been very clear and constant: you have no right to prevent people who are in this son, who want to get out. Everyone in the zone must be allowed to get out. It is the individual choice of the individual, and it is completely contrary to any international right to shoot people trying to get out of this area. Similarly, we have had contact with the Sri Lankan government and told them that it is the Sri Lankan government itself, not anyone else, not the Tigers, not the international community, that has defined this as a non-attack zone and a security zone. The Sri Lankan government, with all due respect to report, cannot shoot into a zone they themselves have asked people to enter and have declared as a security zone. A few days ago, Sri Lanka’s government declared that they would not use heavy weapons against this zone, which they themselves have declared to be a safe zone. It was just supposed to be missing! Now it doesn't even seem that the promise is being respected. The messages we get are that heavy weapons are still used, perhaps to a lesser extent, but they have been used anyway. But we don't know this for sure, because it's sparing with information. But it's Sri Lanka's government that has defined the zone. You have to respect this son. It is a unanimous call from the international community, and it is also a unanimous call for the parties to find an organised political end to it all. Let me say that the government of Sri Lanka has chosen to bully the international community in its response to this situation. The tigers have not been helpful either, but Sri Lanka’s government has chosen to bully the international community. They have constantly bullied Norway over a longer period of time. We have – because we think it was important to be able to contribute to this situation – chosen to turn the other side to. They have encouraged the bullying of the US Sri Lanka Ambassador, Bob Blake, who is going through in a way that almost resembles what I am going through down there, and they still showed this style by refusing Sweden's foreign minister Carl Bildt's access to Sri Lanka yesterday. The international community must also sit down and discuss the consequences for Sri Lanka when the Government of Sri Lanka chooses such an attitude towards the international community, where all those who try to help resolve this extreme humanitarian situation are faced with bullying instead of a widespread hand and cooperation in a difficult situation. We need to discuss the possible consequences for the relationship between our countries and governments over time. Let me finally say two things about the long-term. I am concerned about the long-term development of Sri Lanka. Because of the war, fundamental human rights have been set aside. Many hundreds of people have disappeared. There is no real freedom of the media, and it is not reported in Sri Lankan media either about loss rates or about the suffering of war. We don't see crying mothers, we don't see dead children, and it's clear that the insight into what's going on is very limited. The danger of this is, of course, the long-term consequences for the country itself. I am also concerned about the ability to find a long-term solution to this conflict, although we have to assume that the Tigers are now defeated as a conventional military army in Sri Lanka. Although we have to assume that the tigers will no longer control any land area in Sri Lanka, there is no solution to a long-term ethnic conflict. Only by the ability to find a long-term solution that creates an inclusive state in which both singularists, Tamils and Muslims feel at home can a solution be found where new generations will not use violence to solve Sri Lanka's problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e754	I thank the Council of State for a very satisfying answer. So this civil war has claimed more than 70,000 lives, as it was said. UN sources say that in the last three months, 6,500 civilian Tamils have been killed, and in the last days and weeks 2,000 civilians have been killed. Many Norwegian Tamils are very concerned about the situation of their families in Sri Lanka, which is understandable. Government forces seem to be in their final phase, unless the weapons on both sides are now dropped. I believe that the world community should no longer be passive spectators of any genocide, as in Rwanda and Srebrenica, and I believe that the Norwegian government must do everything it can to prevent it. The World Society and the United Nations decided in 2005 to commit to the ‘Right to Protect’ declaration. Does the Council believe that this declaration can be used for active action in Sri Lanka? Or could the Government ask the United Nations Security Council to refer the Sri Lanka conflict to the ICC's ACT for the investigation of possible war crimes and crimes against humanity?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e763	There is no doubt that the Government of Sri Lanka has an obligation to protect its own citizens, regardless of their ethnic background, as citizens of the state of Sri Lanka. The government of Sri Lanka is responsible for protecting the inhabitants of Sri Lanka, and therefore, of course, the issue of protection has arisen. The UN has done a lot. They first sent the head of the Ban Ki-moon Secretariat, Namibiar, on a mission to Sri Lanka. John Holmes – the successor of Jan Egeland in OCHA – has been there for the last few days. He was also there earlier, so the United Nations has taken a number of initiatives. It appears from the press release Holmes sent out after his visit that he was far from satisfied with the willingness to cooperate. I also have to say that I'm going to join until the United States made a statement just a few days ago, and that's that now the parties have to keep the weapons quiet, and you have to find an organized way to end the war. That will have to mean that the relatively few who are left in the zone hand over their weapons to the international community through the UN, and that the UN also takes full control of the security of those who come out then, so that they are not subjected to any kind of abuse or disappearance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e772	I thank you again for the answer. My, and Left's, focus is precisely on the humanitarian situation, where none of the parties seems to want to put down their weapons – with war up to 260,000 civilians in a small area, problems with food and medicine, unclear security conditions for the civilians, civilians in camps, families being split, and civilians being shot at, no journalists able to give objective views on this. What can Norway and the Government do about the reconstruction and reconciliation, which the Council of State also had in mind? It's going to be very hard. How can Norway, with a contract to both parties, do everything possible humanitarian in order to obtain a truce and a fair peace for both parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e779	As I said, we have now considered it so that the most important thing we could do was to help mobilise the UN and stronger countries than Norway, like the United States, to put a strong pressure on protecting the civilian population, and of course also to get food, medicine and water into them. It's a precarious lack of drugs. Many of those who have come out of the zone have obviously had very little food, so we've been trying to help that stronger institutions than we could put pressure on them to do it. When it comes to the long-term, I think it's now too early to start discussing reconstruction. We need to see how the final game on this evolves, and how the long-term political constellations that come out of this become. The focus must now be on saving the civilians who are there, and then the reconstruction will come over time. But of course, it is very important that those who are now in detention camps, or transitional camps, quickly return to their homes, and that they have full protection where they are.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e789	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘How can Norway support the people and democratic forces in Zimbabwe without supporting President Mugabe and his apparatus of power?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e796	First I want to say that it is good to be able to move from an area where it is so difficult right now, to a country where, after all, there are significant points of light. Let me give a very big compliment to Peter Skovholt Gitmark, who has shown an incredible commitment – and interest – to Zimbabwe over a long period of time, even when it was almost completely out of the news picture. Let me say: we met in Washington two days ago, where Norway and Denmark brought together the entire international donor community, many important Western European countries, the major banking institutions, South Africa and others. The interesting thing was that that meeting showed a total shift in the international community's attitude. The leadership shown by Norway and Denmark by coming into contact with the new collection government was now welcomed by all. It was said by everyone that there is no plan B in Zimbabwe, it's just a plan A, and it's helping the new assembly government to function and get the country back on its feet. Plan B is Somalia, or something very, very much worse. So we have to bet everything on helping that helps. When we were in Zimbabwe, we also got a very clear impression that it is the democratic forces in the country that are now political on the offensive. MDC, led by Prime Minister Tsvangerai and Finance Minister Biti, feels that they are putting the political agenda and driving things forward in the right direction. A lot of positive things have already been achieved. Hyperinflation, where a titration dollar bill wasn't worth anything, is over. Although there have still been some land occupations, the level of violence in Zimbabwe has fallen dramatically, and the reform process is under way in many, many areas. Many have been afraid that increased assistance to Zimbabwe should now be a way to strengthen Mugabe and his supporters. I think the opposite is the case. I believe that within ZANU-PF there are «hardliners» who do not want this assembly to work, and who see that power will go back to them if it does not work, and therefore that now coming in with assistance on the contrary will be a very strong support for the democratic forces. It is also the message that is repeated and repeated by Minister of Finance Tendai Biti. Then there are many practical problems related to how assistance can enter Zimbabwe. The central bank in Zimbabwe is largely guilty of extreme inflation in that country. It has been a financial dairy cow for ZANU-PF, and therefore for Mugabe, but the Minister of Finance is now working intensively to transfer powers from the central bank and to the Ministry of Finance. We are in close dialogue with Biti, and hope he too will be able to come to Norway in the near future to see how we can get to an increased aid effort that does not go through institutions we cannot accept. The Danish Development Minister and I today wrote a joint letter to the major international banking institutions: the World Bank, the African Development Bank and the International Monetary Fund, asking them to look at how the international community is to deal with Zimbabwe's enormous debt burden. It is a major problem for further economic recovery, and this cannot be resolved in the short term. We must address this major problem and encourage joint efforts by all the banks in this area. Then we believe that we should immediately look at how we can bilaterally enter and help pay wages in some crucial sectors such as health – it could be about doctors and nurses – or education. As the questioner is well known, Biti got the teachers back to work in Zimbabwe by giving a hundred dollars a month. There would have been quite little in Norway, but that was enough for people to go back to work. It would be disastrous for Zimbabwe if the teachers stopped teaching again. 2008 was almost a lost year in the education system in Zimbabwe. The combination of these things: working with the banking system, bilateral action and a constant dialogue with Zimbabwe's democratic forces is the way forward, and, as I see it, the answer to the questioner's question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e815	Let me also give the council a verbal flower, and say that I thank him for his work lately in relation to Zimbabwe. I feel that the partnership between Norway and Denmark, in particular, has attached to providing constructive, good solutions to how the international community can help democracy and the people of Zimbabwe, is an entirely correct and wise approach to the country's problems. I also share the view of the Council of State that there is only one plan A, and it is to see this government working and democracy flourishing from this. If a collapse occurs in Zimbabwe, which is not very far away in time if aid does not come into the country, the situation will be quite different. Minister of Education David Coultart has said that if not within a very short time, US$4 million will pay the salaries of teachers, the teachers will most likely disappear again. My question to the Council of State, as a follow-up, is: What kind of time perspective does the Council of State have in order to support civil society?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e822	I fully share Gitmark's view that this is urgent. It's clear that people in Zimbabwe have enormous expectations of this government, but if it can't deliver anything, people will again be disappointed, and that will be very dangerous. We will look at how we can make Norwegian funds available as soon as possible, but we also owe Norwegian taxpayers and Zimbabwe's people the certainty that it will happen in a way that is acceptable – there can be no doubt about whether this money is being misused or that something can be balanced. That's the balance point here we have to work with. So we're working on mobilizing the much more international societies. It was very positive to see how this now put together lines that we were pretty alone in just a few weeks ago. It is clear that the major banking institutions are important. The World Bank is now setting up a multi-beneficiary fund for Zimbabwe that will be an institution to help. But it always takes some time to get started, and Norway can do something bilateral in the meantime.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e829	There is no doubt that in the health field there are a number of international donors who can enter in a relatively short period of time. In education, there have been several countries that have shown that they have been somewhat more reluctant to do so. I also share the wish of the Council of State that if Norwegian taxpayers' money is to be paid, it must be through a transparent system where you know that those who receive the money are actually the ones who provide education to the population. There can be no more years like 2007 and 2008, where Zimbabwe’s children and young people remained uneducated over a long period of time. It's just a prescription for a failed state. Let me just end this exchange of lines by saying that it is very important to find good control mechanisms, and not least the focus is that the time here must be as short as possible. Not least, I feel that there is a close ally in Zimbabwe's new Minister of Education, who is doing a phenomenal job of facilitating international assistance in his area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e836	I can assure the asker that we will look at how we can contribute to this as soon as possible, and that education is an area in which Norway can go in and help. But once again, we just have to be absolutely sure that the structures here are waterproof and patentable, and that is what we are in common about. Let me also say that Zimbabwe – if it starts going up – is a country with a gigantic potential. Interestingly, Harare looks better than very many African capitals, even after so many years of mismanagement. It's more order, it looks better, and the country has a huge economic potential that can help not only Zimbabwe's hard-tested population, but the whole area. Zimbabwe was a giant exporter of food, but is now the net importer of food. Getting agriculture back on the right footing may be the main challenge alongside getting the basic services such as health, with the cholera epidemic, and education to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e846	From the representative Per-Kristian Foss to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion: ‘The test project with task differentiation in the city of St. Hanshaugen Oslo provides good results. The pilot project shall be completed during the harvest. Unemployment continues to rise, rising most in Oslo in this part of the city. At the same time, we see that Nav is under pressure. A unanimous Urban Committee now wants to extend the project so that the activity of the qualification centre is maintained at least at the current level. Will the Council of State grant permission to the City of St. Hanshaugen for this possibility?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e854	This question falls because the queryer is not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e860	Then we're going home again, but to problems for those who want to get out. I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Justice: ‘The distribution and deployment of so-called biometric passport kiosks in the individual police districts has revealed that this causes unreasonable inconvenience to the public in several places. The Council of State has stated that the distribution should be available for any adjustments if outsourcing does not meet the needs of the public. Will the Council of State initiate a review and, where appropriate, make adjustments as soon as possible in order to avoid undue inconvenience to the public?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e871	Let me first say that this is an unusually important reform, and an important measure that we are taking primarily to meet the obligations we have in relation to the EU and Schengen. The project would include, inter alia: include the deployment of the necessary equipment for the absorption of biometrics, these biometrics. I would say – based on the interviewer’s introduction to the last question – that there does not seem to be any particular problems for those who are going to go out and travel, rather on the contrary. Now we're actually hoping that there'll be a better chance to fit faster. It is also the case that the Government has chosen to reduce the passport fee to half, to SEK 450, for adults, so that my overall assessment of the situation is that this means not only that we take care of the obligations imposed on us by the EU and Schengen in the name of the fight against crime, but also for other reasons, but it also helps to provide better service for the most people. These biometrics are so designed that they are advanced technology, and it costs about. NOK 130000 to buy one of these. The police's data and material service has estimated that a kiosk can handle around 7 000 applications per year. As of today, a small number of passports are issued on many applicants in the year, despite a short distance from the nearest applicant. From this point of view, it does not appear appropriate to maintain all of the current points of entry of such equipment. In this context, I would also like to point out that it is nevertheless clear that some geographical conditions in our country must be given importance when we distribute these kiosks. As a result, some applicants with a low volume of passports have nevertheless been awarded a kiosk because geographical consideration has been chosen. I still believe, like the Police Directorate and also the police officers, that it is not necessary to meet the needs of the audience to place such kiosks at all of today's existing passport offices. Among other things, I would like to stress here that the period of validity of passports is 10 years for adults over 16 years of age. So it is not very often that you apply for passports – even if you have to travel a little longer than you might be used to. In addition to this period of validity, I would like to inform you that the passport can be applied for at all the country's passport points and that the passport can be sent to the person in the mail. I believe this will make it easier for the passengers to plan when and where they will apply for a new passport. As far as the distribution of kiosks is concerned, it is based on figures obtained by the Police Directorate from the police districts. These include: See the number of applicants for each police district per year. today, the number of applications in the districts in total and broken down by candidate countries. 358 ordinary kiosks have been ordered. That's a large number, and we've spent a lot of money on it. There has been a consensus in Stortinget about the volume of money you're going to spend on this. Three mobile solutions have also been ordered. There is a lot to cover up Norway. From this point of view, biometrics are distributed to around 190 applicants. If we compare with other types of both private and public services that we offer to the population, there are also a lot of applicants, so here I think we get the service done very well. It's the chief of police in every police district that decides how these are deployed, and I trust the assessments made in relation to this. In addition, it is a prerequisite on my part that the placement of these kiosks meets the needs of the audience, and we will consider this on an ongoing basis. Based on the question, I find it quite natural that the scheme should be assessed in its entirety when it comes into force. An additional element in this is that these kiosks are intended to ensure not only the issue of passports but also after each national ID card. It makes it natural, in my opinion, to carry out a review of whether the conditions that both the respondent and I are concerned about are adequately addressed. At least a pragmatic look at this distribution will be needed at the start of the issue of national ID cards, scheduled to be launched from the autumn of 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e888	I thank you for your answer. I would like to illustrate a problem with an example: a non-named County of Länsmann with approx. 4 500 issues in total per year, one of which has 11,000 people with 30-40 pst. the issue has not received this type of kiosk despite having a special population of seafarers, asylum seekers – i.e. with requirements other than ordinary passport issues every 10 years. Then the reason was given, that where there are passport kiosks, there must be two kiosks, because if one of the kiosks is destroyed, you have to have access to the other one, that is, 14,000 in capacity. So instead of the fact that in the event of a mistake one afternoon or two you have to travel from the big municipality to the smaller one where the kiosk hopefully works, people from the neighbouring municipality have to travel every single time. Does the Council of State think this is an unreasonable rule?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e895	As I said in my main response, I have confidence in the assessments made regarding deployment. But this is a major reform for us, so we're going to go into the issues that are being reported – and I think I have some idea of which loner's office is being drawn up. I've been open to this being discussed, and we're also going to be able to discuss the question of the rules that surround this. I have a pragmatic view of it, so I'm open to it. At the same time, I just want to say that some of the big challenge for the Norwegian police is actually to be exempted from a number of tasks so that you can use more resources out there. The fact that there are janitorial offices that do not get these kinds of tasks, and it may also apply to other types of tasks, does not mean that we deprioritise these janitorial offices, rather on the contrary. Right-wing commitment to creating more police force has just been to free up police resources so that we can use people out, so here we find a good balance. My main point is that the number of kiosks and the number of points of departure is very good in meeting people's needs for passports.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e904	I thank you again for the answer. I have a follow-up question. It is obvious that the concern in the districts is that this will weaken local police preparedness and that it will eventually lead to downsizing. For the public, there's obviously a disadvantage to this. If, then, the Minister of Justice believes that this is not an intentional centralisation, and I must believe him, this must be an economic matter. Then I have a question. In this case, how will the Council of State decide that a person in a working municipality, with a large and active business life, will be offered a crown roll to have a kiosk placed because the disadvantages are assessed by the fact that employees have to travel as large? Would the Council of State be in favour of such an initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e911	The government is aiming for us to be able to finance the tasks of the Norwegian police within a public framework, and I believe that this is a very important principle. But at the same time, what has been up to the Right, and what has been the issue of the Government in many discussions around the police now, has been that we should at least seek to prioritise the tasks that are purely of a political nature. What is important for the county offices, for the maintenance and closeness of the county offices to the population, are precisely tasks in the name of the fight against crime. In fact, I believe that an important task we as the government have when we're going to invest in the police is that we don't spend too much money on biometric kiosks. Now, when we're going to put out in 190 places, I'd rather use the rest of the police budget to buy protective equipment, weapons and cars to enable the police to do what's the primary task for the police both in the districts and centrally, to combat crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e919	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Culture and the Church: ‘The digital DAB network gives listeners access to 14 national radio channels against five or less on FM. Digital radio allows you to listen to your own children's channel, the channel containing NRK archives, NRK Gull and others. However, on the DAB network, only around approx. 80 pst. by the population. This means that large parts of District Norway have a much worse radio offer than people in central Europe. What will the Council of State do to ensure that people throughout the country receive an equivalent radio offer?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e928	Like the representative, Lånke, I am concerned that Norwegian broadcasters have good framework conditions and that the population receives the best possible radio provision. The basis for current policies in this area was laid in St.meld. No 62 for 1996-1997. This Communication considered that a digitalisation of radio in Norway should be driven by actors. In this it is not a state responsibility to deploy a digital radio network. Any decision to expand should be taken by the actors themselves on an ordinary commercial basis. The majority in Stortinget joined the Ministry's proposal. These principles have underpinned the policies of changing governments since then. The issue was most recently addressed in St.melding. No 30 for 2006-2007, Broadcasting in a digital future. Distribution costs represent a significant proportion of the expenditure of the radio channels. The message shows, among other things: to a DAB network with a ‘NRK block’ of approximately 100 pst. Coverage and a block of 90 pst. coverage will result in multiple duplication of the rental costs of the channels. The Ministry therefore considered ‘that it would be difficult for operators to invest in the full development of the DAB network without a decision on the closure of FM shipments’. Furthermore, the Ministry did not rule out ‘setting a date for the closure of FM shipments at a later stage so as to encourage operators to invest further in the development of the DAB network’. I believe that the interests of broadcasters in this matter must be balanced against the interests of the public. FM is a well-established standard for radio distribution, and there are a large number of analogue radios in Norwegian homes. St.meld. No 30 for 2006-2007 concludes that a target date for the closure of FM transmissions will be taken into account only when at least half of all households have acquired digital radio receivers. In addition, it was assumed that the entire population has access to digital radio services and that this offer represents a digital added value for listeners before the actual liquidation could take place. The majority of the population, the government parties and the Christian People's Party, joined the ministry's conclusions on the conditions for digital radio transmission through Innst. S. No 24 for 2007-2008.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e939	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There is no doubt that DAB is the radio of the future. I understand that from the Council of State's response that he agrees. It is also true that there has been some agreement in the Grand Duchy on developments so far in this area. But what now needs more and more is that on the one hand, the radios people have, to a large extent, FM radios. That network is very mature for updating. It'll be very expensive. Then the NRK has expanded DAB radio to cover approx. 80 pst. of the country. The last 20 pst. is very expensive. If we're going to continue with a parallel investment, both FM and bet on DAB, it's going to be impossible and too expensive. The only thing that can get the audience to go over to DAB, buy DAB radios, is to decide a date and give a clear message from the authorities that now we want this transition, as one has started to talk about both in England, in France and in other countries. When will the Council of State go in to give such assurance that we will terminate the FM network?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e948	As I said in my first answer, we said in the broadcasting message, which we received from Stortinget, that to take a stand for a date we should do when at least half of the households have digital radio. There must be at least one threshold that must have been reached before we start discussing the date of FM shutdown. The essential thing must be that the audience feels that digital radio is an advantage. It is not only the costs of suppliers, content producers and distributors that are important in this picture but also that the audience has a good offer. Unlike the digitisation of TV, I think the experience of the added value of a digital radio is currently limited. It's up to the actors to develop. I am absolutely sure that digital radio is the future, and that at some point we are going to shut down the FM network, but it must be in a situation where the audience experiences this as a greatly improved offer for their part.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e957	I thank you again for the answer. I find that the Council of State is not willing to go to work specifically on sketching a possible transition date. In the interests of the public, they are not unique. I now live in a district myself – I have moved to Rennebu in South Trøndelag – and there I have a very bad radio offer. In good days, I might be able to get in two channels. Most days, it's P1 that's my radio. In Trondheim, where I've lived a lot of my life, there's a flurry of channels, up to 15 at once – you can just tap the button, you have a new channel. There is a very strong distribution of radios in Norway. When you talk about whether the audience sees it as an added value, it's clear that you have to consider that people travel a lot more, they drive around in a car and people have cabins. They must then sit and screw and try to search for some FM channel. If you have DAB, you get a robust offer, which is similar all over the country, with the same channels everywhere. You can have many in different rooms. The only current option and the only way to achieve it is to outline a clear transition, as other countries are now starting to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e966	Very well known, no country has yet set a date for the closure of the FM network. With regard to both the development of technology and perhaps also mass production that ensures reasonable apparatus, we are probably dependent on several countries doing so at the same time. I agree that digitisation is the future. I agree that at some point we are going to shut down the FM network, but I believe it must be a fundamental requirement that content providers and distributors have developed an offer that is perceived as a radically improved offer. Still, even in Rennebu, or perhaps especially in Rennebu, as it is located along the Dovrebahn with a lot of good infrastructure, it is possible to listen to radio via the network. You can get an innumerable number of channels via the Internet, of course not with the audio quality that FM or even better digital radio can provide. The day this both has a coverage and a content that the audience will ask for, I think the time has come for the big technology shift.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e978	From the representative of Gunnar Kvassheim to the Minister for Renewal and Administration: ‘With effect from 1 January 2009, we have received a new Public Relations Act. The new law will contribute to increased transparency in general government. How will the Council of State help the State sector to practice the new law in accordance with the letter and intention of the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e986	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e992	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘The island communities of Værøy and Røst have a large production of different types of fish. Unfortunately, the capacity of the power cable of the island communities has been exploited. As a result, enterprises ready to make the necessary initial investments are not allowed to do so. One of these companies is Lofoten Viking AS at Værøy. They're standing on the stairs with an investment of 100 million. kr. The current situation could lead to the company moving from Værøy. Will the Council of State take the initiative to resolve the situation in Røst and Værøy as it is resolved to Train?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1001	The network companies are under the legal responsibility to ensure sufficient supply quality on electricity to customers in their areas. The network companies' responsibility for investments in the network has been reinforced by the proposal to introduce the obligation of interconnection in the Energy Act. Natural conditions may make the establishment of new and strengthening existing transfer connections costly. Under the Energy Act, financing of network reinforcements may take place in two ways: by the network company and thus by all network customers in the area, or by construction contributions from the network customers that cause the increased transmission need. Where appropriate, there may be a combination of these funding methods. The local transmission system operator decides whether to require an installation contribution. In this case, the network must have a consistent practice throughout the scope of the concession. The regulation of the network carriers provides mainly good incentives for the efficient development and operation of transmission links. The revenues of the network companies are mainly derived from the network lease. In addition, we have a separate support scheme for the balancing of network rentals for the network companies at the highest cost. However, the government will review the overall regulation of the network in order to ensure that regulation is appropriate in order to have the right incentives for investment and efficient operation. Norway's Watercourse and Energy Directorate shall carry out the investigation which shall also assess the number of network levels and whether a common national network tariff should be introduced. Then we have the situation of Coach, who has been and still is exceptional. The appropriations that I announced for some time ago, which will be followed up in the revised national budget, are the exception that confirms the rule that the transmission system companies are responsible for investments in transmission cables. Rødøy-Lurøy Kraftverk AS are among the companies in the country with the highest network rentals, even after subsidies from that balancing scheme. The lack of power is the main barrier to further economic development in an otherwise viable community. It is expensive to establish long cable connections, as we saw in this case, and there are few network customers in the area in question to share the costs of tariff increases. Verøy and Røst have many of the same challenges as Train. However, the network company Lofotkraft has relatively low tariffs initially compared to Rødøy-Lurøy. Equally, lovot power has not been eligible for any of the years in which the balancing mechanism has existed. However, I continue to follow the situation on Værøy and Røst, while also stressing that it is initially the responsibility of the network companies to provide secure and adequate power supply. I see that the current situation at Værøy and Røst is very little satisfactory. I have therefore informed the island communities that I want to visit these islands during the summer to discuss the issue in more detail.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1016	I thank you for the answer, and I thank you for the effort that has been made to solve the problems at Røst. It's very good for that community. Værøy and Røst have many of the same problems, as the Council of State also pointed out, but now a company is ready to invest. They've applied for more power, and it's uncertain whether they're getting more power. If they don't get any more power, that means they're moving. The situation is not so precarious that it leads to the closure of the facilities, but you run the facilities like today. If you build in the future, you will get exactly the same situation on Røst and Værøy as you have on Training, namely that the plant is shutting down. The father is now that the company chooses to invest elsewhere and moves from Værøy, and I think that would be tragic. Will the Council of State take the initiative of a meeting between Lofotkraft and Værøy and Røst to find a solution to this problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1023	To take the last one first: As I said in my first answer, I have already notified local authorities and engaged people on Værøy and Røst that I want to look at the situation on those islands. I have also informed that I want to visit the places. When I do that, it's because I'm just seeing the problems that the representative Svendsen here is dealing with. When I went in and did what I did for Coach earlier this year, it was because I worried about the situation on an island community where it is not possible to drive business development, where it is not possible to have a normal development of the area. I have the greatest understanding of the frustration that is there, but at the same time we must have respect and understanding that we have a network policy and a system that we must not undermine. Many communities will soon want the state to enter and take part of the investments linked to the network if it is made into a general system. So I'm concerned that when we do that, it's quite exceptional. But again, I've said that I want to visit these island communities, and I'll do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1028	Once again, I would like to thank you for taking that initiative and traveling and talking to these companies. The review that is also announced here, I think makes sense. It is of course the case that the network companies have the overall responsibility and should also have it in the future. But then, of course, it is a dilemma that the Coastal Plant, among other things. has used considerable resources to facilitate industrial activities in Værøy, with the dredging of the port and many measures to promote new establishments. Then you get to the point that the company chooses to be on Værøy and make new establishments, but the possibility of it stops because you lack another type of infrastructure, like electricity. My final question is: why not make the same decision for Værøy and Røst as one has made for Training?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1035	As the representative is well-known, these issues have persisted for relatively long in the political system. This is not a matter that has appeared this year or for that matter last year. I have been busy doing something about this, and I have started with the matter I felt most urgent. This is also about budgetary appropriations and priorities within the framework, and I am reasonably sure that it was the right way to tackle the problem. So I say again, as I have said now, that I want to look at the situation also on Værøy and Røst quickly, to see how we might follow it up further.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1043	‘The government’s climate policy is being attacked by the oil fire because it will phase out fuel oil in Norway due to CO2 emissions. If the oil-fired infrastructure is removed, the simultaneous use of biological fuel oil, which is more CO2 neutral, is impossible. This contrasts with the Government's many incentives for the use of biofuels. Will the Council of State correct its policies so that certified biological fuel oil is integrated into Enova’s commitment along with other renewable energy and an additional measure?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1056	The government has an active policy for transition from the use of fuel oil to environmentally friendly alternatives, such as bioenergy, waste heat, ambient heat and waste. By October 2008 at the latest, I was able to open a campaign for the installation of local heating plants. In this connection, a project was also launched in which an old oil boiler was used as a material for a work of art to show the new and the old. Both the charging system and various grant schemes are geared towards a conversion into renewable energy. Aid schemes are targeted at the development of district heating, local heating centres and smaller installations in households. The existing waterborne heat infrastructure provides a good basis for conversion into renewable energy in many places. Oil from different types of biomass, as the representative here mentions, is an interesting energy resource. Biooil is available in many different qualities that are suitable to replace fuel oil in heaters. It may be appropriate to cover the full oil requirement with bio-oil. However, consumption is low today, but interest is increasing. I am aware that it is planned to use bio-oil in several places in the country, including: in the district heating plant of Akershus Energie on Lillestrøm, which is under construction. As far as instruments are concerned, I would like to point out that bio-oil has neither a land tax, nor a CO2 tax, nor a sulphur tax. There is a significant competitive advantage, stimulating the use of bio-oil rather than traditional fuel oil. Enova is committed to promoting the availability and use of bio-oil and assesses various measures that can contribute to market developments in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1068	I thank you for the answer, which I think was quite positive. I really just want to get the Council of State to confirm what kind of work is going on in Enova, whether there will be some concrete programs where Enova likes to provide support based on, for example, kWh. It will apply to fuel oil, at least at a certain level, in the same way as one gives to others. It gives predictability. It also gives Enova better knowledge about the potential that is. So there will be the market in competition between different renewable energy sources that will be the criterion for whether this is something that is being used or whether it is still such that renewable energy in a more solid form, in the form of e.g. Pellets, that's what's used on a large scale.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1075	I want to strike a small blow at the market first and say that once we have chosen not to charge the charges I mentioned in my first answer, on this type of fuel oil, it is a strong incentive, and it gives people the most opportunity to choose this type of oil, also assuming that it can be profitable for the individual in dollars and ears. That's how I think the big frame around getting bioenergy, bio oil, is laid out, it's lying there. As far as Enova's work is concerned, Enova, as I said, has this question to consider to see if they are going to take further action. But once again, those measures will be part of a package in which there will be a very important incentive with regard to the transition, as I see it in a positive way, like the questioner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1082	Then I'm not going to plough any more into this right now. I just want to ask if the Council of State can somehow inform the Storting when Enova has had this review, regardless of whether there will be a positive, negative or neutral response.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1087	It shall be done with joy by the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1095	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Knowledge: ‘Some high school students are plagued by fellow students and thus feel disturbed and uncertain. This creates an unsafe day of school in various ways, which is not desirable. At Hamar Cathedral School in Hedmark, it is estimated that the students will be considered safe. What will the Council of State do to make all students feel safe in the school area and near the school and feel a joy by going to school, and not least get some rest and time to learn?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1104	First, I would like to refer to the current legislation in the field, in particular Section 9a-3 of the Training Act, which deals with the psychosocial environment in the school. It's called this. a student who is subjected to infringing behaviour may require action to be taken to prevent such behaviour. Parents of the student can also make demands. As soon as possible, the ball shall take individual decisions on the matter and shall be screened for the necessary measures. If the measures are not sufficient, the individual decision can be appealed to the county council. Complaints may also be filed if the school does not take a decision within a reasonable period of time. The question here concerns continuing training, but I would like to make it clear that both county and local authorities must have a defence system to ensure that the requirements of the Training Act are met by regulations. I refer here to section 13-10 of the law. Bullying, plaguing and other types of offensive behaviour against others are extremely serious. It makes students unsafe and can destroy self-confidence. It may also be a serious obstacle to learning at school, as the representative was in it. Today, in addition to physical bullying, many people experience that the Internet and mobile phones are new areas for harassment and exclusion. We know that in those schools where bullying is systematically done, the situation is better for the students. The Government and the Ministry of Knowledge therefore place great emphasis on the work to create a good and safe learning environment. Among other things, schools have been invited to use anti- bullying applications such as: Olweus and Zero. This is a program that we have knowledge-based experience with has meaning. The provision of such measures is being followed up by us. Last year we saw alarming figures when it comes to the development of bullying. On the basis of this, we have seen a revitalization of the whole work against bullying. On 12 February this year, the Prime Minister, on behalf of the Government, signed a new manifesto against bullying, a superlative document in which a number of parties take part. There we have launched a series of new measures. We double this year's pledge to the fight against bullying from $7 million. NOK 14 million. kr. We're making a change in teacher training, where we put much more emphasis on the teacher's skills to deal with bullying and to develop dialogue and tolerance. We're also going to have to get stronger into the new schoolteacher's education. Other measures include carrying out a research-based investigation to get a better picture of what's behind the numbers we have about bullying. In 2010, we will carry out national supervision in schools and in school owners to see how this point of the Training Act is being followed up. I am very busy with this problem. As one sounds, we do a lot. It's a very important question that's being raised here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1117	I thank the Council of State for a supplementary answer. Hamar Arbeiderblad of 25 March 2009 reads: «Here the police are chasing troublemakers at Katta» – i.e. Hamar Cathedral School. In addition, it says: ‘Assess instruments for safety’. There is something fundamentally wrong when a few are able to destroy school everyday life for both students, employees and others who spend much of their time at school, and not least for parents. It is clear that action needs to be taken. You can then ask questions about whether the teachers have lost control in the classroom – I'm just asking the question – or whether we need clearer principals as school managers. I would also like to refer to a proposal promoted by the Progress Party, Document No. 8:113 for 2006–2007, in order to reduce school unrest. Can the Council of State say anything about whether those who work at school have too little power — to use the word ‘power’ in a positive sense?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1126	Let me first say that I have actually visited this school, after that episode, and had the opportunity to talk to both the county board and principal about what had happened. I got a clear impression that they were very busy with the same problem and that they were getting on with the work. I fully agree that the teachers have authority and should have authority, and most of the teachers we have, including in further training, are very good – skilled class leaders and highly skilled teachers. But I think we can strengthen that function even more, and that's exactly why we're taking care of the teacher's education and the principal's education. We have to get into the core, that the teachers have the skills to hire, that the principals have the skills to do it. This may be an indirect reason for the change in the law that is announced on Monday, namely that we should make it clear that teachers should have the opportunity to impose sanctions there and then, when the order is violated, and that it should not be up to the principal. It's about having teachers with more authority, not less.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1133	I thank the Council of State for the answer once again. The years you go to high school are very important. Of course, they are involved in shaping the students, the youth, but they are also involved in paving the way further into life, whether in the field of choice of studies or job choices. So it's clear that the years in high school are very important. Then each student must have peace and security in his everyday life, both at school and in the vicinity of school. I hope that we will jointly manage to do it better every day, and would like to have confirmed from the council that he will of course do everything he can for in this case Hamar Cathedral School, but also other schools that are struggling with this. For there are also other schools that have approached the same problem to some extent — this also applies to secondary schools. As late as yesterday, I was at a meeting at a high school where there are some students who are ruining everyone else. So it's a relatively big problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1140	I think I can join the representative here, and confirm that for me it is a main thing to fight bullying and for an inclusive school environment, where we avoid anyone being plagued, and there is nothing to destroy the possibilities of learning and well-being for the many. It's a main point that we're going to have teachers with a good skill and a good education, who are trained to hire a class and handle difficult situations, and which we give the authority they're going to have in school life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-29.ana.ud1283e1145	The size of the store has then completed the work on today's map.
