ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-07.ana.ud2452e24	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 2 October 2009: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 2 October 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 11 a.m. is determined: the Council of State of Helga Pedersen is dismissed from office as a Council of State in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. At the same time, the Board of Directors of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs is appointed by the State Council of Sylvia Brustad. State Council Dag Terje Andersen is dismissed from office as a government council member in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. From the same time, the Board of Directors is appointed by the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, State Council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen. State Secretary Øyvind Slage is hereby dismissed from office as Secretary of State for the Council of State Sylvia Brustad in the Ministry of Industry and Trade. State Secretary Vidar Ulriksen is hereby dismissed from office as Secretary of State for Helga Pedersen in the Ministry of Fisheries and Coast. State Secretary Jan-Erik Støstad is pardoned from his position as State Secretary for Dag Terje Andersen in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. State Secretary Libe Rieber-Mohn is hereby dismissed from office as Secretary of State for Dag Terje Andersen in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. State Secretary Raimo Valle is hereby dismissed from office as Secretary of State for Dag Terje Andersen in the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. Vidar Ulriksen is appointed State Secretary for Sylvia Brustad at the time Brustad is in charge of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. Jan-Erik Støstad is appointed State Secretary for Bjarne Håkon Hanssen at the time Hanssen manages the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. Libe Rieber-Mohn is appointed State Secretary for Bjarne Håkon Hanssen at the time Hanssen manages the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion. Raimo Valle is appointed State Secretary for Bjarne Håkon Hanssen at the time Hanssen is in charge of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion.» The President proposes that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes – and it is deemed to have been adopted. The former members of the Government, Helga Pedersen and Dag Terje Andersen, have taken the seat of representatives. The first alternate for the Vestfold County, Heidi Ørnlo, is proposed to meet in Stortinget under the authority of the representative Steinar Gullvåg instead of Tom Strömstad Olsen. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Heidi Ørnlo is present and will take the seat. From the representatives Morten Höglund and Sigvald Upbeøen Hansen, applications for leave are available from 8 October to 12 October, both for participation in the harvest meetings of the OSCE Parliamentary Assembly in Athens. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Tom Staahle For Telemark County: Lene Vågslid
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-07.ana.ud2452e120	The implementation of a decision-making process is a major national effort. There are no fewer than 2,988 voting circuits and thousands of electorate helping to receive and count votes. During the year’s election settlement, we have seen examples of relatively large headlines in the media about errors and delays. Some incidents have created uncertainty about the mandates, and this has naturally been a burden for the candidates. The electoral law provides a good basis for the choice to be made in a proper manner at all stages. We have detailed provisions on the procedure for the first preparations in the municipalities, the electoral process itself in the polling stations and the subsequent monitoring of the county election boards. The post-election control phase — including that carried out in Stortinget — must take some time. Where the margins between mandates are small, both serious and minor errors may cause changes. The media should be more likely to take into account the preliminary nature of the results of the ongoing inclusion in the election database, the possibility of errors always occurring and the fact that corrections will occur as long as the verification is ongoing. I have noted that the Department will assess whether changes should be made in the way the election results are made known, and hope we can find good solutions to this. During the review of the year, we have found conditions that may indicate that the resources of the elections are different from those of the municipalities – which I hope the Department will examine more closely during the evaluation of the year’s choices. The Committee points out that it is absolutely necessary for municipalities to set aside resources for training and adequate staffing in order for the electoral process to take place in a orderly and efficient manner. The Committee also asks the Ministry to pay particular attention to training needs at all levels during that evaluation. I would like to mention a few areas where changes have been made since the previous elections – with good results. The number of pre-voting votes that arrived too late to the electoral councils is clearly reduced even though many more have voted in advance this time. The last deadline for the issuing of foreign ex-ante votes has been reduced by one week. We have to assume that both this and perhaps better procedures at the Post Office and the electorate have contributed to this. However, there are still examples of errors that have caused pre-voices not to arrive in time, and this is therefore a problem we should not forget. If you vote in the right way at the right time, there is reason to expect that the vote will count in the election. Since the previous choice, the date of the entry in the census has been moved one month closer to the selection. It's probably had a good effect. The number of votes that had to be rejected because the voters were not in the number of votes has been reduced by nearly one-third. Active pre-election information campaigns by the Ministry may also have contributed to an improvement here. It is the Committee's view that the choice as a whole has been made in an orderly and effective manner. However, the Committee has found reason to point out some aspects that need to be addressed in the next elections, and I would therefore like to say a few words about the issues raised by the Committee in its voting. This time, too, many votes have been rejected because they have not been stamped, without it being possible to say whether this is due to errors on the part of the electoral authorities, or whether the voter has placed two ballots in the ballot box. It is important that the electorate continues to pay attention to this problem. Several differences have also been recorded between the cross-sections of the number of votes and the number of ballots for enumeration. This may be related to the procedures followed in the constituencies. The Committee sees the advantages of voting in such a way that it is examined whether the electorate is in the number of candidates before he or she enters the ballot box and asks the ministry to assess whether more precise rules are needed in this area. We've also seen examples of voters standing up to vote, everything is checked in the number of votes, but they themselves say they haven't voted. It is underlined in the setting that the electorate must be very careful when they tick the crew. As far as possible, it should also be possible to check and correct afterwards if the check has failed. The Committee asks the Ministry to consider laying down detailed rules for the storage of electoral material which may enable this to be done. Information has otherwise been provided that the voters have misunderstood how to delete or propose another numbering of the candidates on the ballot. The result is that the corrections are either not registered or give the opposite effect of what was intention. The Committee asks the Ministry to consider amending the voting rights in order to prevent such misunderstandings. To the extent possible, it should be possible to follow the same procedure for corrections of the same type, both by decision-making and by municipal elections. The Committee has also referred to votes of demented voters and voters with developmental disabilities. These voters have the same right to vote as everyone else, but may be particularly exposed to speculation that others have had the opportunity to influence their vote. In order to avoid this, it is important to follow the rules carefully, so that there is always someone present from the ballot box when these voters are assisted in voting. In addition, the Committee notes that the management of the meeting books in several counties and municipalities has also been inadequate in this election, and this continues to create difficulties for the control bodies. I assume that the Department is working further on measures that can provide better reporting. However, the errors identified during the verification of the election settlement are not of such a nature that they may have had an influence on the election result. I recommend the unanimous vote of this committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-07.ana.ud2452e164	Several have not asked for the word.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-10-07.ana.ud2452e185	Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
