ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e22	The representative Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn, who has been on leave, has once again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Vestfold County, Tom Stroemstad Olsen, has taken the seat. There are two letters from the Prime Minister's office to Stortinget. The first letter dated 27 February 2009 reads: ‘In the Council of State for H.K.H. The Crown Prince’s Regent held at Oslo Castle on February 27, 2009 at 9.30 p.m. 11.00 is determined: The Prime Minister's Office Government Council Trond Giske takes over the board of the Ministry of Justice and Police, as well as the Ministry of Culture and the Church of the time the Council of State Knut Storberget has been ill-appointed. Appointment of political adviser Ketil Lindseth as State Secretary for State Council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen in the Ministry of Health and Welfare.’ The second letter, dated 6 March 2009, reads: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 6 March 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 1100 is determined: Prime Minister's Office State Secretary Jens Revold is pardoned with effect from Friday 13 March 2009. Mr Åsa Elvik is hereby appointed State Secretary to the State Council of Tora Aasland, Ministry of Knowledge, with effect from Friday 13 March 2009.’» The President proposes that these letters be annexed to the minutes – and considered adopted. The first deputy of the Nordland County, Geir-Ketil Hansen, will take the seat of the representative of the time Åsa Elvik is State Secretary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e70	The President will propose the election of two presidents for the Stortinges meetings today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Solveig Horne and Anders Anundsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Solvency Horne and Anders Anundsen are unanimously elected presidents for this week’s meetings in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e93	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e96	I have on behalf of the representatives Tord Lien, Torbjørn Andersen and myself the joy of proposing to include small power in a green certificate market.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e101	The representative, Martin Engeset, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e104	On behalf of Jan Tore Sanner and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions to let private staff companies relieve the job force of Nav in the employment service of the unemployed and to let recruitment and growth companies relieve Nav in the job satisfaction of the disabled.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e110	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e132	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Anniken Huitfeldt State Council Board Vegar Solhjell State Council Helga Pedersen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Jon Jäger Gåssvatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e151	I have a question for the Minister of Knowledge. The first year school, which has followed the 2006 Education Plan, is now finishing its education at secondary school. In the last few days, we have received a message of concern from both Telemark, Sogn and Fjordane and Rogaland that dozens of leaving students will not receive a diploma, because they are for approx. three years ago, a wrong professional combination was chosen. Probably there will be more such messages from several states. A short time ago, all schools in the country were given access to a control programme against which they could run the various professional combinations. It has been found that many students have chosen combinations that do not qualify for a diploma. The authorities are indebted to each other. School owners, who are required to have an advisory and guidance function, say that the legislation is illogical, unwieldy and difficult to understand. The directorate on its side claims that the schools have not been well enough involved in the legislation. The losers in this context are the many students who are now being discouraged, and it's half a year before they're going to take their exams. They're frustrated, they feel failed, and they're not sure if the future plans are going to go down. I have several questions: Does the Council of State think that the schools have been given good enough information about which professional combinations will qualify for a diploma, and who will not? Does the Council of State think that the wrong combination of trades should have been discovered earlier, so that corrections could have been made? And to the extent that the Council of State takes on self-criticism that the information provided by the Department could have been better, what will the Council of State actually contribute to these students in order to lower the level of frustration so that in the last few months they can concentrate fully on their higher education and the next exam?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e162	We're not going to leave these students in the hole. If the school or expedient authorities have done wrong, we have to take responsibility for the failure and do not leave the students behind with the problems. We have per cent. currently does not have an overview of the scope of this. We know a few examples. Nor do we have an overview of the extent to which you have applied for a dispensation or other solutions for your students. However, I can say very clearly that we want to take on the responsibility we have, and make sure that the students get the rights they are entitled to, and that they get the education that is important to them. So the question is, should we have been better informed? Well, such things we have to go through in retrospect. What I want to say is that the website that describes these rules is the most visited website of the ministry, and it has been available completely since the Knowledgelift started. But we're going to go through the legislation, we're going to see if there's any lack of information, or if this is a problem that's been in some schools because you haven't followed up the information well enough. It's going to be in the next round. Now, the important thing is to make sure that students get their skills. So we're going to go through how we can make sure of that. That's what the State Directorate is doing. I'm personally going to follow that. Of course, we're going to have contact with all the schools where it turns out they have problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e173	I would like to thank the Council of State for its response. I expect the Council of State to realize that this is urgent. We just heard at the NRK about a student at Firda Secondary School – in the council's own home state and neighbouring municipality. She's happy in mathematics and she's planning to go to college. But she's in danger of not getting a diploma because she's chosen depression in mathematics, which belongs to another education program. If she had chosen a simpler math, she would have received a diploma. But because she chose to gain better knowledge, she doesn't get it. When society screams at people with real-life skills, and we want a lot more teachers with math skills, how does the Council of State explain that students are being treated that way? So what's the logic?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e182	The council of state is Akershus, and the municipality of home is Vestby. But for many years I have bid in Sogn and Fjordane – that’s right – and I know Firda further education, which is a very good advanced school. I do not know the specific example, but I know that in some of the further schools students have not received enough information. As a result, they have followed a race that prevents them from getting a diploma. I want to repeat what's the main message: we don't want to leave the students behind. Authorities and schools will take responsibility for the mistakes that have been made by us. Now we have to go through each case, because it may vary slightly from case to case and from school to school. We want to do that quickly, because we understand that this has to be done quickly. It applies to elephants who are now leaving the secondary school, and we will continue to work with that in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e189	There will be four follow-up questions – first Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e192	I assume that what the Council of State is now saying is that the students who have made the wrong choice or otherwise got into trouble are now being helped. What remains a problem, on the other hand, is that many students early opt for faults — both professional and professional — and thus fall out of secondary education. In a representative proposal from the Right, which was promoted in 2007, we proposed that the Government launch a pilot project of vocational guidance in secondary school. Counsellors come from high school, where the best vocational guidance skills are often available, but work mainly at the youth level. An overall committee asked the Government to investigate and assess the proposal for a pilot project and to return to the Storting in an appropriate manner. Since then nothing has happened. So this was in June 2007. The question is, where does this matter stand now?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e199	The decline in secondary education is a serious social problem. It has a lot of reasons. A major reason for this is the error selection from childhood and up in continuing school. This is why the Government has implemented a very strong and comprehensive focus on different measures against non-response, including: advice. The last time in the budget for this year, the permissions of career guidance centres are strengthened. We've professionalized the consulting service, and we've increased the permissions. The compulsory subject of challenge choices came for the first time into the school curriculum of this school year. The school feedback is very positive. In a short time, we will present a report of competence to the Stortinget, such as: will also address issues of non-response. There we will also come back to proposals and problem settings that have been raised by others when it applies to work against the drop-out in the secondary school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e207	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e210	I think we all see that the situation that the main questioner raised in his question is an unfortunate situation. But what we often see is that this is also a typical situation. First, coal in all reforms often suffers — they become test rabbits and are exposed to a lack of information or structures that make them unable to complete well enough. What we're facing in teacher training, which we're about to do, is we're going to try to combine old teacher training with new teacher training. We're also going to imagine how people are able to take on new subjects in terms of making wrong choices. My question is: how does the Ministry ensure that we do not have similar cases in connection with new issues – that we do not get first-aid faults, but not least that transitional arrangements between old and new schemes are ensured?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e219	I think we should be a little careful to suggest that this is typical, because the typical thing – as far as we know now – is that very many aspects of the Knowledge Lift work very well. And what we already have is that they failed as authorities and schools, and as frames elephants, are examples. A very important thing now is to get an overview of the extent of this. I don't dare say here today if there are only a few single examples, or if there are more than that. That's what we're working on to get an overview of. Then we have to do what we can to help the students who have been frame. The next step is to make sure that we correct any errors, that we improve the routines, and that all of the scales in the next round provide good information to their elephants.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e226	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e229	There is quite a broad consensus in the Knowledge promise about what the Council of State now said – we want people to do well, and people to have a fair chance. My concern is that in the past we have also received some examples of other subject areas in which fine-light regulations have been passed on in many ways by politicians in the main hall. I assume that the Council of State has the opinion that the administration should ensure that the citizens – in this case the students – who actually do what they can, get through and get properly treated. We had the example from Gåsvatn about those who had chosen depression. I hope that the Council of State will take into account that it is possible that the way of governance will turn out in non-political ways, either on the part of the Council of State or on the part of the Storting. I would strongly encourage the Council of State to take it further, especially because, as I said, I have experienced this in areas other than what is the theme of the Questionnaire here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e238	As the representative of Dørum may have discovered before, common sense seems to be much higher in my course than fine light. Having said that, I would like to say that we must have legislation to clarify the framework for each school. And when it comes to the question of which combinations you have to choose, I also think there's a general consensus about that. What we have to do now is, first of all, to provide quick and good help for the elephants who have come into a difficult situation. Secondly, I agree that we need to look at both routines and information, and I am obviously not in the foreground to assess the legislation and how any problems with it should be addressed in the next round. But I think the first focus now is to do something for elephants that are frames.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e247	Åse M. Schmidt – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e250	The council itself said in its reply to the representative Gåsvatn that this page was the most visited website. It might have to mean that it has to be read several times to understand what's right. That's why I might want the Council of State not only to say that one ensures that the schools will provide the right information, but that he might also take a little self-criticism – that the department of its vocabulary and its language theme might become a little clearer, and simplify this. In Germany, they have something called Amt-Deutsch. Maybe one should also have some sort of focus on bureaucracy so that it becomes easier to understand. In addition, it was also mentioned here — in fact, by the consultant at the university colleges in Sogn and Fjordane — that they knew that this was a problem before Christmas, when they ran professional compositions against the control programme. But then he says that now the whole country has access to the control program. Is it possible that someone gets information, and others don't?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e257	I promise I'll go back to the department and read that page myself, and possibly send it over to the people who work with the Clear Language Project in the Ministry of Renewal. I should not exclude that this may be any of the images. However, the main picture is that it is already about some elephants in some of the further schools. At least that means that most students — as far as we can see today — have received the information they should have and made choices to get a diploma. Now we need to get an overview of the entire image, if it's more than a problem that concerns some people. We need to help them with that debt, and we also need to look at both information, routines and legislation, so that in the future it will be good and clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e262	The size goes on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e265	I have a question for the Minister for Gender Equality. Last weekend there was probably a round of child protection in the media. This time it was about drugs and institutions’ ability to deal with drug problems. And so this isn't a unique look. In three – not to say four – years, i.e. this whole period, we have raised questions on a case-by-case basis related to the protection of children. It has been about a lack of financial management. These have been critical comments from the National Audit Office. It's been a situation where child protection obviously doesn't have what they need to deal with drugs. We hear that children are making their debuts with a rush in the field of child protection. It is a supervisory failure. These are dramatic increases in emergency positions, longer waiting times, longer queues. We hear that the number of administrative posts is increasing dramatically within Bufatat, while the number of posts where the services are provided is significantly lower. In the case after the case, we have mentioned this. It has been in budgetary terms, and it has been a matter of opposition proposals in a number of areas. And I might have waited to see a light in the tunnel at some point. At some point you might think that things would get better, when the government, after all, has had three and a half years to improve the situation of some of the most weak in our society. My question is, does the Council of State feel that she has control of the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e275	I do. But that doesn't mean there are no challenges in both state and municipal child protection. With regard to the Riksrevision, I would like to remind the representative of the comment that came from the Riksrevision after four years of the government he supported, namely that the state child protection reform was underfunded. Therefore, one of the most important things we have done has been to increase the appropriations, so that we can give a more organized offer to the individual. Some of the important features of the State child protection reform include: In the past, when young people aged 14–15 have had serious behavioural problems, it has been thought that only we can get them away from the environment and send them to an institution, it will be all right. We have experience in many institutions doing a very thorough job, but increasingly we have also used help at home. I would like to advise the representative, Olemic Thommessen, to seek out families who have been helped by the MST method, and have received relief measures with very good results. Child protection is about providing knowledge-based methods, effective child protection. I would also say that some of the most important thing is to get in early. We've got a study from NOVA that shows that many child-restraints get pretty big problems later in life. But those who get good after protection are doing better, and those who get help early are doing better. That is why I have submitted a number of legislative proposals that provide much stronger legal protection in relation to getting a poster protection, to Stortinget. We've also been busy giving more knowledge about municipal child protection. So all in all, I think we have responded very well to the critical comments that have been made on child protection, and we have a much better response than the previous government had.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e284	After four years in position, I might think it's time to take responsibility for how to actually solve problems. So there have been three to four years of problems that obviously cannot be solved. I can assure the Council of State that I have visited quite a number of people who have to do with child protection, not to mention all those who are looking for me, who feel that they are falling outside a system. I think it is striking that in such a small department – after all – as we are talking about here, you have this one big task for this one really vulnerable group, yet you are not able to solve the problems that are. Last week, we had examples from Bergen, where we learn of child-restraint children who are placed in huts, who live alone, who have not been in charge for one and a half years. When the paper checks this out, it turns out that the supervisory authorities do not know that they have oversight there at all. That, councillor, I don't call having control of the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e293	Olemic Thommessen knows very well that I have just sent out proposals to consult on transferring the supervisory responsibility from my own department to the Health Service, and that is because we have received a state child protection. The previous government did not take responsibility for strengthening supervision. On the contrary, I believe that this is very important and will therefore strengthen the scope of supervision. I also want to say that we've been going very carefully into the situation that's been at a child-rescue institution, where there was a girl who died not long ago. There is now a full review of this matter, and I am sure that it will have a useful follow-up. It is also the case that all supervisory authorities are now committed to drug monitoring and competence is to be increased throughout child protection in terms of drug competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e300	There will be four follow-up questions – first Ulf Erik Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e303	When children and young people are in public institutions, they shall be safe. We have child protection in Norway that is being persecuted by scandals, and that is something we cannot live with. The question is whether we should actually get a big message about the matter, or a statement from the Council of State, where she looks at why it goes this way, why it is not cleaned up, and what new control methods can be implemented. In this context, the Progress Party shall have inter alia: called for more independent supervision. My question to the Council of State is, what is she actually going to do, and to what time? We now have a government that has been sitting with the majority for three and a half years, and that has not been able to clean up. The question you almost have to ask is whether this actually goes on your way. Now we want answers to what to do in concrete terms, and to what time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e310	I have received a number of written questions from the Right, and also from the Advancement Party, and I will explain it in a very thorough manner. I would like to stress that a very good job is done in the state child protection system, and the help given to the individual child and family is better than before. It's not like that, as the Progress Party thinks, if you have a 14-year-old who doesn't have it that way, it's just sending him away and it's going to take care of itself. There must be methods that are good. It must be a treatment that works. That's why there's a knowledge-based child protection that's our answer. I would also like to say that we are following up the views of the Progress Party on supervision. That's why we transfer responsibility for supervision to the Health Authority, to get it more independent from my department and to get more professional and professional supervision. The biggest difference between us and the Progress Party is that the Progress Party on every single occasion has cut hundreds of millions in the state child protection, and that will be no more quality of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e319	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e322	I am pleased to hear that today's government parties now recognise the MST method and home measures as an important part of child protection. In the election campaign, we often heard from today's government parties that we were not going to put Grandma out for tender. Nevertheless, we have seen that the group that is perhaps the most vulnerable group we have, namely children's protection, feels that their homes have been put on the market, that they have to move out of the county to get an offer that satisfies the price, even though the quality may be exactly the same. As a result, many years of competence working to give these vulnerable children a home now has to go down. This is not unknown to the Council of State. What has the Council of State done, and what are you going to do to prevent this from happening? This is an unworthy situation for the very weakest in our society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e331	We've been very careful about the numbers in relation to how many people move out of their own country, or their own region, and they've gone down during the period we've had the state child protection. It was one of the main ideas of Laila Davøy, that more people would get help in their local environment. It's also followed up. That doesn't mean that everyone gets help in their local environment, or in their region, but that's what we're working against, and we're going in the right direction. When it comes to the purchase of private child protection facilities, we have separated the non-profit organisations and have a protected competition when we acquire them. That doesn't mean that everyone is going to have an extension of the contract with the department, but that means, among other things. that several ideal places were bought in the previous round we had, and we have also extended the period they have contract with the public from two to four years, plus one plus one, to ensure stability. It is quite clear that the representative is entitled to the fact that the movement of child-restraint children is not lucky.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e338	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e341	I'm absolutely sure there's some of the Council's sunshine stories. The problem is that we don't measure on those that go best with it. We measure how we deal with them in the worst way. The Left and Government agree that child protection has enough authority to exercise power over children. The story of Olemic Thommes is striking. It is expected that child protection will take the same responsibility, positive and negative, for a child that it will take. This means that you expect the same care that parents should have given, but you also expect the same exercise, with limitation and follow-up with regard to drugs – there is also care in the border. I wonder if the Council of State agrees that child protection actually has that authority, and whether they are actually willing to exercise that authority over the children.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e351	Over the years, we have seen that a number of child-restraints have not been granted the rights they are entitled to. That is why, over the last few years, we have developed quite clear rights regulations, so that individuals can have legal certainty. But many times these rights regulations are designed to counteract the control of the individual child. If you, for example, Does a mobile phone and trade drugs with it mean that legal certainty is involved in keeping that phone? Or could the institution then go in and seize the phone, as parents would have done? I think it's right to re-enter these rights regulations, given that child protection is the responsibility of children and young people to limit them. But it is also the case that the individual child protection child has legal certainty.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e358	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e361	I think it is quite alarming that the Council of State now says that she has full control of child protection, when she said something else on 25 February in the Official Journal of Bergen. Then she said that something was seriously wrong with child protection. Anyone who has read Bergen's Official Journal during the last few weeks will see that there is something serious wrong with child protection. So the councils announced a full review. Do you have control of this – when you say to Bergen’s Official Journal that something is seriously wrong with child protection? And then I want to ask a question about the last follow-up, from Trine Skei Grande. In 2007, the majority of the population rejected a review of the coercive regulation in order to make it work, on the basis of the very same type of issues that have occurred in the media, on the use of drugs and the lack of the ability to use coercive measures. Then the majority rejected that it was necessary. Now the Council of State says there's obviously a need for that. Does this mean that the Council of State now regrets what her own party thought in 2007?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e368	I said quite clearly that I wanted to look at the practice of the right rule. With regard to the use of coercive measures in the field of child protection, there are good opportunities for this in today’s legislation. Sometimes it's absolutely necessary. But we generally know that if we lock young people in for a long time, it's not like they get into the other end as much more integrated people. Often it hurts worse. But many times it is absolutely necessary to use coercion against child-restraints. I believe that we have gone into the situation in the west region very carefully. It has also had consequences for the entire state child protection system. We see that we need to strengthen our skills in relation to drug use, and we want to strengthen supervision throughout Norway in terms of drug use. However, it is clear that such individuals with children who die in a child - protection institution are very serious.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e377	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e380	I have a main question for the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. We're just having March 8th. At the same time, the government was gathering for a budget conference at Thorbjørnsrud, and the spring payroll is right around the corner. We've come a long way in the field of equality in Norway, but we're in bad shape when it comes to equal pay. It should be obvious that men and women get equal pay for equal work. In Norway, unfortunately, the situation is such that for very many years women have been the losing party in the wage struggle. Men still tend 15-20 pst. more than women in equal positions. Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen said in the previous week that an equal pay pot will be an electoral campaign for SV. I see no reason why the government should wait for the election campaign or for the next period of fighting for equal pay. If we're going to get more men to become preschool teachers, more men to become nurses and child protection educators, we're going to have to do something with equal pay. If we are to get more people to share on the parental leave, equal pay will be very important. And if we're to achieve equality, equal pay is extremely important. We cannot therefore achieve the strong and important work that has been done on equality until we are able to do something about pay. That is why we now think that the time for action is right. The Christian People's Party expects the Government, as part of an income policy cooperation, to increase the level of pay in this year's wage negotiations. It's not like you're getting involved in pay negotiations. It's taking a political responsibility. Would the Government and the Minister for Children and Gender Equality be involved in taking responsibility for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e391	We've put down the Equal pay Commission, so we haven't been happy with the developments we've had on the equal pay side in recent years. There are several proposals that this Commission has made. One is three-part maternity leave. There is, of course, the representative and I agree that the proposal that was put forward is not good enough and does not take good enough account of flexibility. But we have announced that we want to extend the dad's quota to 14 weeks. We've doubled it during the time we've been sitting, so this is a very important proposal. The Equal Pay Commission also has other important proposals, including: the strengthening of the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman and the compensation of salaries for the period of maternity leave. That's one of many suggestions. We will evaluate all these proposals in cooperation with the social partners. Some have supported the approach of the Equal pay Commission, and others have been more critical, because they have considered that low-wage groups with a high proportion of women are not adequately taken into account, for example. caregivers and maids. I think it is important to have a good dialogue with the social partners on these issues. There's nothing that politicians can do about it, because it's the parties that decide the formation of wages in Norway. But we have tripartite cooperation, and it's natural to discuss these issues in cooperation with the parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e400	The Equal Pay Commission’s report came a little over a year ago. The government has had time to assess measures, but has not made any concrete proposals. Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen has said that she wants an equal pay pot. I think that's a good suggestion. That is what the Christian People's Party wants, and we have put forward proposals in the Grand Duchy that the Government must come up with binding measures, without our having heard of it. When it's about the fathers' situation and that with the father's allowance, the government hasn't done much in this period. She has come with two extra weeks – taking two weeks from the common leave period that one already had. When it comes to the independent right of appeal for a father, the government has not done anything at that time – three and a half years – it has its seat of power. I'm actually expecting the Government to put forward more concrete measures while one has the possibility. There is much that has been evaluated for a long time. I think equal pay pots have to do, we have to get concrete results. When it comes to the other points, it's been small steps -- we thought it was going to be a bigger step from this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e411	We have achieved a large increase in the father's quota. In addition, we have done what the previous government said it should do – but as it did not – namely introduce the right to self-employed work. That means a lot. There's a lot more people who are entitled to the paper issue now than what was the case before, so here we've gone a lot of steps in the right direction. I want to say that this is a question I want to discuss with the social partners. What Kristin Halvorsen has said must in case apply to the next main settlement, and not to the settlement now to spring. We need to find a arrangement in cooperation with the parties, to which it is a connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e418	There will be three follow-up questions – first Ulf Erik Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e421	I am happy to be married to a specialist nurse with four to five years of education in a higher education-related profession. We are doing well financially, but not because of the nurse's salary – we have relatively pleasant wages here in the house. But we know this pay gap on the body. The politicians of the government parties often call for this with equal pay. But I have to remind you once again that you actually have a majority, and that you shouldn't always spend the time talking away, but trying to act. This is a problem that can be solved to a large extent during the spring payroll – so now I am calling for action, not talking, from the sitting government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e429	We have a long tradition in Norway that the government does not dictate wage formation. I am a little surprised that Ulf Erik Knudsen believes that we should go in and dictate this, all the time his party wants far more individual wage determinations – so the nurse must negotiate with the individual hospital and see how much one is worth! The fact that the Government should have no attitude towards wage formation is, of course, contrary to the policy of the Progress Party – so there is a fundamental difference in the view of how wage formation should take place. I believe that we should do this in cooperation with the social partners. We have had a hearing on the composition of the Equal Pay Commission. It has been joined by some, but many have been strongly opposed to the arrangement and the model that is outlined. Therefore, in cooperation with the social partners, we need to discuss what kind of device any arrangement should have. We're not going to dictate any solution for this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e438	Linda C. Hofstad Helleland – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e441	The government contributes to the maintenance of the public monopoly in areas where women have considerable competence. This leads to lower wages for women in the public sector. In the care sector in particular, women miss out on their own working life, better career opportunities and, not least, higher wages, because it is almost impossible to start their own business. Yes, one can almost believe that it's the government's ideological sky poster that prevents women from getting the same opportunities as men. I assume that this is not the intention of the Council of State. So my question to the Council of State is, what will the Council of State do to e.g. nurses shall be able to start their own activities and provide care services in the same way as, for example: dentists, doctors, lawyers and engineers? They've been doing it all year, but in the women's dominated professions, it's completely impossible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e448	I'm a little uncertain about what this question really contains. First, there is the possibility for nurses to work in private businesses, but it is not that private solutions mean better pay for women. If we look at countries where a significantly higher proportion of health services are privatised, it is not that women's wages there are better. It's typical for the Right that every time they have a challenge, privatisation is the solution. In the case of self-employed people, I just want to say: if you want to start your own business, we have, unlike the Right, introduced maternity leave for this group. It's very important. I know that many women entrepreneurs have been uncertain about starting their own business, precisely because they have not had the security they now have – thanks to our government, not the previous government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e457	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e460	There is no doubt that pay arrangements and leave arrangements are in fact interrelated and that one has consequences for the other. The problem with the Equal Pay Commission was that they said in a way that it was the family's problem – that the family had to adjust to it – while for the Christian People's Party it has been very important that this is the challenge of society and of working life, not of the family. When we see today that it is 35-40 pst. of the fathers who do not use the parental leave scheme, and that there is one in five fathers who do not have the right to do so, we will never be able to get up to a level where we actually get to that similarity in working life. So my question to the Council of State is, is now finally coming up with the follow-up to the human message, with the independent right to profit for all fathers? Will the Council include student papers in such a scheme — those who have not paid for work but also need to be with their children?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e469	I agree with what the representative says about the composition of the Equal pay Commission, because what was one of the statements, was that women are too long gone and therefore are squandered out of work. We have quite systematic data over many years to show that increased parental leave has increased female participation. So we have one of the world's longest birth permits and the highest employment of women, 80 pst. It only shows that maternity leave is actually a way of integrating into the labour market — not exclusion. Then I agree that self-sufficiency for everyone is an important goal. We have introduced new rights for more and more, we have increased the paper issue – but we will come back to these questions at a later stage.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e476	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e479	I have a question to the Council of State Solhell that is not directly under his responsibility, but where he has participated heavily in the public change of words. I therefore think it might be appropriate to use the Spokesman's chair to also discuss such important matters. The left was the first party that thought that arrangements had to be found that paid artists also for what happened to file sharing on the web. It has also started to falsifyingly move into, while the Minister of Culture of the government in which Solhjell sits has said about the Left's position that the Left loses all credibility as a cultural party, and that the Left's proposal will brutally beat its legs during Norwegian cultural life. When we begin to describe what arrangements we could actually make, which I believe are better developed than the arrangements SV has put forward in its programme, the Minister of Culture in the Government believes that further away from reality it should be done well. So I really have a very simple question: does the Council of State share the views of the Minister of Culture on the Left's initiative in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e488	State Council Solhell is not constitutionally responsible for this question, but he chooses to what extent he wants to answer it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e491	In any case, I should be brief about the government's policy and my own view on this issue. First of all, the copyright decisions that we have today are going to pass, and I don't think they are a significant obstacle to creating other business models and other systems that ensure that authors get paid for their works of art, while at the same time making use of the possibilities that the Internet provides for, for example. sharing culture and knowledge. The problem today is, as I am sure the representative agrees, that very many authors are not actually paid for spreading and using their copyrights because the system does not work well enough. So there's no need to take away the authors' rights to their own copyrights. It's an important principle that the Government is behind, and that has a lot of support. On the other hand, for years to come one will have to look at possibilities to develop a system for that. I have noticed that the Minister of Culture has also expressed himself in the same direction, that it is important to call about copyright law, but that there can certainly be a discussion about where to go. That is also the basis of the Soria Moria declaration. Then SV's current program and application proposals go into an important discussion about how to ensure that the incredibly important possibilities that exist to spread knowledge and culture through the web are actually used. In my area, which is knowledge, we have schemes that can inspire it. And one has come very far. One has actually ensured payment to authors, and one makes teaching material available online. In my view, similar systems must also hold a debate on within the field of culture.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e501	I very much agree with the Council of State, and I expect that the Minister of Culture's characteristic of the Left can no longer stand. But then we move into the next one, which is how this law is to be enforced. Today, many people are fighting for a law that really isn't being enforced. You fight for principles that you really don't want to put into life. However, some would like to see a private practice of that enforcement, namely that the network companies should be forced to distribute information and close filers from outside the public space – which is actually also part of the Internet. Fortunately, Telenor has said no to that, while the Council of State Trond Giske has stated that it is a good idea and a good punishment. So the question is, when you can't enforce this in the usual way, does the Council of State think that you should privately enforce enforcement – or should you actually enforce this law in the same way as you enforce other laws?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e508	In my view, the representative's characterisation of the Minister of Culture in this matter is totally wrong. On the contrary, the Minister of Culture enforces the law we have, which is based on authors controlling their copyright and getting paid for it. It's an important principle that there's a whole lot of consensus about. Also, the Post and Telecommunications Authority, which the representative is probably familiar with, has had an extensive process in recent years, in which a number of other actors have been involved, where one has tried to establish the principle of neutrality on the web – that is, the network itself, which one can see as a means of transport, should not be controlled in terms of content but should be neutral. Telenor has recently followed up this in a decision. And I have not registered that the Minister of Culture or others in the Government have at any time said anything against that decision – on the contrary, it is the foundation of the Post and Telecommunications Authority that is the basis here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e515	There will be follow-up questions – first Ulf Erik Knudsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e518	The exchange of questions between the Left and the Minister for Education may be heard as if SV and Left voted against the existing copyright law. In fact, I just want to point out that both parties voted for the prohibition of stealing copyright in Norway. It seems that the SV has intended to solve this with file sharing by adding a fee to the legal market. So to take an example, it's like I'm going to have to pay for the son of the Council of State Solhell, like that. Downloading illegally. This is a play I could well imagine coming from an SV youth politician, but when it comes from a Minister of Education, I jump in the chair. The Minister of Education must be a moral example, among other things: in the case of schooling in Norway. What attitude and moral example do you have when you say that illegal file sharing is quite ok?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e525	My son is three years old, and hopefully he doesn't download either illegal or legal – but that's another thing. I don't think the representative Knudsen listened to, or he wouldn't right, what I actually said in the previous line exchange. I made it clear that I am in favour of a copyright such as SV, correctly, has voted in favour of the Storting, which gives authors rights to their works, and which is intended to ensure payment for that. So I repeat, I'm for it. The problem is that today's promise is widely broken, and that we need to think again in the future about how we can secure these rights for authors. So I'm against illegal file sharing. On the other hand, I am in order to hold a debate on a system that uses the possibilities of spreading culture and knowledge, which allows more people to benefit from it, such as us. have completed this in the field of education and at the same time secures payment for authors.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e532	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e535	When it comes to the last point, about free flow in the networks, I think the Council of State could take a greeting back to the Council of Ministers of Navarsete. We have just had a dispute about the possibilities of TV, and I do not think the government is in the front line in that area. When it comes to enforcing copyright law, everyone wants to find solutions within the network on how to do it. The problem is that the SV later ignore what Solhell says here and say that you want to protect, so you minimize that you actually steal people's property. You even signal that someone is going to pay for something that others have abused. What is the fundamental difference between owning a miracle and owning an object? Is it true in society that if you steal enough clothes, or cars, then the state will somehow set up and buy it for us?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e544	I am for rights to copyright, and that one should have paid for it. But since the representative takes it up, I would like to try briefly to tell you that there are some differences between, for example. a car and knowledge for which I am responsible. If the representative gives me his car, I have a car, the representative has no car. If the representative teaches me something, what he is still doing, the representative can do it, and I can do it too. The dissemination of knowledge, the sharing of knowledge and cultural experience are inherently more important if more people are to access it. So we should make systems that make for sharing it. But illegal file sharing, or that authors are not paid, is something that we have to shut down. Therefore, the government has a clear policy that we have a copyright, that we are against illegal file sharing. But we should have a debate on how we can reconcile the concerns of sharing that authors get paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e552	President: The Stortinget goes on to the next main question – from Øyvind Korsberg. The President will make use of the time Korsberg spends to the pulpit, to recall that the spontaneous questioning session is a questioning institute of the Constitutional Council of State, and one should perhaps be a little cautious in making it a purely debate forum on matters for which the Council of State is not constitutionally responsible. This call is addressed to everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e557	Thank you, President. I'll try to stay within that regulation. I have a question for the Minister of Fisheries and Coast. Last week the Committee on the Internal Market of the European Parliament adopted a ban on imports of cellulosic products into the EU. This is not a new case, it is a matter that has been rolling and going on for years. There have been forces for this ban, so it should not come as a big surprise. But what I ask myself about this matter is where the government has been. I also record that EU lobbyist Magnus Karlsrud Dahlen believes that the government has slept an hour and that Norwegian authorities could have tried to get a hearing in the European Parliament. Case rapporteur Diana Wallis believes that Norway has been reasonably absent in the debate, and Christel Schaldemose in the European Social Democratic Party calls for Norwegian information and influence. That's how I could still be for quite a long time. Then really is the question to the minister: why has the government been so passive in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e566	The government has not been passive in this matter at all. We have been very active, and for a few years now we have been working very hard to influence the EU politicians in this matter. I myself have had meetings with both the EU Fisheries Commissioner, with the EU Environment Commissioner – the Prime Minister has addressed this with the head of the European Commission, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs has had several meetings with both EU parliamentarians and the Commission on this matter, including. he has met the mentioned Diana Wallis personally. We have worked directly against all Member States of the European Union, our embassies have been active in all 25 capitals, and we have also worked with the EU animal protection authorities at official and expert level. The matter is now before the European Parliament. Four committees are responsible for dealing with this matter. The first committee has delivered its opinion on the matter. But I would like to stress that this is a matter in which it has not yet been concluded by the European Union. Several committee readings remain, plenary sessions remain, and the European Parliament and the Council of Ministers remain in agreement. They haven't been. Norway will continue to work specifically to make its views known in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e574	I thank the Council of State for the answer. But I record that there are a large number of people who are involved in the matter, and who are thus strongly criticising the Government for being absent. The fact that you've been very active, I think, is a truth with certain modifications based on who you listen to here. The fact that the government has used traditional channels is to some extent okay, but here you should go out on the broad front. There should be many votes in this case. That is the way in which we in the Grand Duchy have the opportunity to influence parliamentarians in the European Parliament. Why has the Government not used Parliamentary contacts with the European Parliament, for which we have the opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e581	The government has actually done that. Last spring, a number of MEPs from the EU Fisheries Committee were travelling in Norway. I had a personal meeting with them in Tromsø, and took up the sales case there. There were also representatives from the Norwegian Storing and agreed to talk about the sales case. I would like to warmly welcome the involvement of the big business politicians in this matter. If there is someone who wants to be involved and contribute, current policymakers will have a chance to do so. At least it doesn't impose any restrictions on the government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e588	There will be four follow-up questions – first Ivar Kristiansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e591	No one is in any doubt that the Norwegian government has completely slept an hour. All the warning lights should have been lit already in 2006 and this house should also have been heavily involved in this matter. What is actually about to happen now is that the government is more or less preparing Norwegian self-employment rather than being on the ground in the matter. This year, we could risk giving up the last ones that are operating in the Barents Sea and the White Sea, which are now active in this area, because of the government's inaction. Is it prepared or not prepared to launch a WTO complaint on this issue? I ask the Council of State to be precise in its answer. This is about the ecological balance we actually have in Norwegian and international biomass extraction administrations, where we know that marine mammals are taking out as much biomass as Norwegian... fishing industry. [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e600	I fully agree with the representative Kristiansen's description of the importance of self-afraid in an ecosystem-based management of our marine resources. This is why the Government has put so much effort into continuing this industry and tradition in the future and ensuring market opportunities for Norwegian cell products. That is why, as I explained to the previous questioner, we have worked actively at the job level. The Prime Minister, the Minister of Foreign Affairs and I myself have carried out a number of meetings on this matter, and we are going to continue to work against the EU in order to get an impact on our views. In this case, it is not yet concluded. If there were to be a worst case conclusion in this case by the EU, we would of course reserve the right to proceed to the WTO.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e609	Ingredient S. Sørfonn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e612	When I listen to the Council of State's argument, I think a little bit back to Stoltenberg I's commitment to Sellafield. There they also talked to a lot of people and would do a lot, but nothing happened. Then came Bondevik II, and the first weekend that government existed was the matter on the agenda, and one got a solution. I think this has a little bit of commitment to do. In my childhood, there was a sketch of the man who couldn't laugh. The problem wasn't that he couldn't laugh, but there was nothing hearty about it. I wonder if I'm here at the core: has the government been a little cautious about showing commitment to this matter? Have you ever been a little careful not to tread on anyone's toes? This is a little bit of a matter, but it's a very important matter for Norway. She's important in principle, and she's important in practice. I hope that in the future the Government will show greater commitment. The question is, has one been a little cautious and shown a little little little commitment?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e619	The answer is no. We've shown a great commitment to this case. If you go back and see the log of all the contacts that have been made with all the EU Member States, with key Commissioners, including the President of the European Commission Barroso, and with the European Parliamentarians, including the Foreign Minister's meeting with Diana Wallis, I think it can be concluded that there has been no lack of commitment, neither in terms of time use, resource use nor experience in the way the matter has been presented.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e626	Leif Helge Kongshaug – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e629	Norway has rich traditions of managing natural resources in a sustainable way. We all have to agree that some traditional industries, such as the catch of seals and whales, are gradually beginning to have a rather fragile business environment, and the danger of the loss of competence is obvious. It is a bad signal to nutritionists and recruitment to the industry that the authorities are perceived to be indifferent, cf. the sales case and the EU, where the case-in-law rapporteur for the EU sales case said that Norway’s vote had been absent. Are the state councils concerned about the future of the Norwegian separatist and whaling industry, and what strategies do the state councils have to follow up the case, both nationally and internationally, in order to promote industry and increase recruitment to the industry, which is so badly needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e638	Self-employment is an important tradition in Norway. It has an important place in ecosystem-based management of our resources. We have also placed great emphasis on Norwegian self-anxiety at a high standard in animal welfare. That being said, one must also say that the self-governing industry in Norway today is marginal. Last year we had four vessels in the West ice. How many we get this year is not yet clear. The government supports the self-gang stone by nearly 13 million. kr, i.e. with 3 million. kr per. boat. It's a sign that we're prioritizing that industry, even though it's not very large in the number of practitioners and economic output, nor in the Norwegian context. On the other hand, we will continue the targeted and committed work we have to ensure market access for Norwegian cell products. We must continue the work against both the European Parliamentarians and the Member States. If they were finally to conclude in a way that we do not want, we reserve the right to move on to the WTO.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e648	Tord Lien – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e651	After all, it is not just EU bureaucrats and people in the system who are critical of the Government. It is also the former workers' party top, Torstein Moland, who says the following: ‘My impression is that the Norwegian authorities do nothing or little to prevent the adoption of the proposal.’ The EU has fished a large proportion of its fish stocks and may now hope that the selenium will break our fish stocks. Moland goes on to say: ‘... there is a great danger that the proposal will be transmitted in the next round to other species on which the animal protection lobby loves.’ This is dramatic. It's not just about whaling, but it's about the entire Norwegian harvest culture – on wild rain, on whales and on a whole range of bird and fish species. Can the Council of State guarantee that the Government will show a greater commitment than has been done so far in this case, if the EU tries to make this matter EEA-relevant?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e666	The government has put a significant amount of work into this matter. We will, of course, continue to do that in order to get an impact on our views and to continue Norwegian self-afraid. As far as Norway’s Jager and the Fiskerbund have been concerned, it is clear that it is both about ensuring market access for Norwegian cell products and about continuing self-anxiety both in the West and in the East, which we are doing by supporting this industry through state resources. It's something that the Progress Party is fundamentally opposed to, but this government has chosen to do it. We've also increased the coastal allowances and increased the shot premium to ensure a coastal take-off.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e673	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e676	My main question is also addressed to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. There has been no lack of fine words and election promises regarding the Northern Region bet of the Government. This should be the big project. Nevertheless, despite the announced big effort, the government has only one government council from North Norway, and we have seen a striking passivity in important matters for the region. A poll conducted by the A-press in September 2008 shows that people in the north are disappointed by the Government’s actual North Region Initiative. Tomorrow, the Government will present its new strategy for the north, entitled ‘New building blocks in the north’. However, it is already easy to see that there is a gap between promises and deliveries. We see it in the sales case, where it is obvious that the government has slept an hour, even though there has been a public, lengthy process in the European Parliament on a matter that is almost exclusively about Norwegian interests. I find it strange that the Minister for Fisheries now rejects the fact that the Government has been passive, when the Minister for Foreign Affairs was quite humble and said directly in the European Commission on 6 March that the Government could be more active in using Norwegian parliamentarians against the European Parliament. People and fishermen in North Norway are also upset by the way the government has handled the seismic shooting, and how badly this has been coordinated between the Oil and Energy Ministry and the Ministry of Fisheries. The government has created unnecessary frustration and conflict in a process that everyone knew was going to be difficult. Similarly, in 2006 the Minister for Fisheries slept an hour and had proposals for a NOx levy, which was destructive to the Norwegian fishing industry, passed over the table during the 2007 budgetary procedure. In the context of the government’s management of the financial crisis, it also took a considerable amount of time before the Minister for Fisheries took ever more desperate calls for measures from the fishing industry in North Norway. For months it was reported that the market was failing and that the general measures were sufficient. When will the Government resume contact with the business community in our northernmost counties?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e692	Many of my colleagues and I have extensive contact with both business and other environments in North Norway, and as a finnmarking I must say that the atmosphere in North Norway is quite different today than it was four years ago. Take, for example: the reopening of the Barents Sea. We presented a management plan that both guaranteed the petroleum industry access to new areas and that ensured optimism, among other things. in the Hammerfest environment and also elsewhere along the coast, while Norway’s Fiskarlag said that they had had an impact on all their points. At the same time, we took both fisheries and important environmental considerations. In my area, we have a long way to go to combat overfishing in the Barents Sea. It has brought back billions of values to the fishing industry and to the Community. Half of the salmon concessions in the course of the year go to North Norway. We have established a sailor, followed up the professional recommendations for oil protection. We're strengthening towboat preparedness in the north. We have strengthened research in the north in many areas, including on marine bio-prospecting, where we have stated that Tromsø should be the capital of it. We have also met the financial crisis with offensive measures taken by the fishing industry. In very many areas, we have taken significant steps to ensure optimism, and tomorrow, five of the government's state councils are going to Tromsø to present step 2 in the North Region initiative. So it's in a strong contrast to the commitment that the previous government had in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e699	It is often easy for a Council of State to list measures taken by a government over four years in North Norway. But the mood that the Council of State here describes is not at all in line with the mood that we read about in the newspapers and that we meet in the business world in North Norway. Let's take the payroll case, where the Council of State obviously has not done its job in relation to influencing the European Parliament. All signals indicate that. On Monday, the Council of State said in the Fisheries Bulletin that this decision is likely to be contrary to the WTO Agreement. It's a pretty serious claim if it results in correctness. Can the Council of State now guarantee the fishing industry in North Norway that if this decision is contrary to the WTO Agreement, will the Government without delay bring this case before the WTO Court just as it did with the salmon case?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e706	The representative Torbjørn Hansen now mentioned another matter in which the Government has a great commitment, namely to ensure market access for Norwegian seafood products, which in particular benefits the fisheries and seafood industry in North Norway. We've had a lot of commitment, and we're going to continue our great commitment to the sales case as well. I myself have met both parliamentarians, politicians, individual Member States of the European Union and two EU Commissioners, but this is not how the Government can dictate the EU in this matter. As far as the financial crisis is concerned, I think that the representative Hansen can agree with me that there is nothing that the Stoltenberg II government has caused neither the fishing industry nor other industries, but there is a situation that the Government is facing with active measures to mitigate the consequences, not least in terms of the fishing industry. The big difference between what our government does, and what the Bondevik II government did, is that we have an active policy in relation to the North and North Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e715	There will be two follow-up questions, as time has advanced – first Øyvind Korsberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e718	When this government joined, the Minister for Fisheries said that there should be light in the house, and then I have really just a few simple questions. Have there been more or less fishermen under this government? Has there been more or less reception facilities? Does it work more or less in the fisheries industry? Does it live more or less in coastal municipalities? And is the council satisfied that you have an overfishing in the Barents Sea of over 1 billion per. years?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e725	This government is pursuing an active industrial policy. There is no doubt that the fishing industry has had some very good years during this government. This, of course, is not only due to government policy, but we have actively contributed through research, through the Marine Value Creation Programme, through the by-catch system – to take a fisheries policy action – just to build up under the activity of coastal communities that have worn out more over time. Take a community like Båtsfjord, where there has actually become light in the factories again. Take a community like South Africa in Hasvik, where there is activity again — and that’s how we can take several of the most vulnerable fishing forces. It is obvious that the financial crisis puts one in a difficult position and leads to very uncertain times — both for the fishing industry and for the fisheries-dependent coastal communities in North Norway. There we have put measures on the table: guarantee schemes, leadership grants, marketing... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e731	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e734	It is important to discuss the Northern Region bet with the only government minister from North Norway. In 2006, the Tromsø government was with a larger number of state councils than ever on Northern Norwegian soil and promised the bet of the times on the north. Now they're going back tomorrow to continue this. I'm standing here with a booklet summarizing the North Region bet that the minister boasts, which is so much better than that of the previous government. I've been through it carefully. It's to a large extent a listing of amounts from different budgets, and that would have stood there regardless of whether you had listed it in hopes of $1 billion. But what North Norway expects, and as Northern Norwegian media have expected and demanded, is that this bet should be something more than what you could have expected would come from a fair distribution to North Norway. Is that the same way you're going to keep going?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e741	It is not that the money the government has granted to the northern areas is something that comes of itself, almost in any case. Therefore, the previous government did not get those appropriations in place. Now we've put in place a lot of important appropriations that create optimism and that create development in North Norway. So many of the communities in northern Norway have been experiencing a negative development over a very long time. It won't turn around overnight. We've got an incredible amount of work to do in this magnification period, but we're going to have to continue this work in the next big period to really see the results of it. It's a generation project that we've been doing very well, and that we're going to make further concrete tomorrow. The representative of Sahl should be pleased to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e748	So the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e753	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Questions 5 and 6 by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen and Per Roar Bredvold, respectively, to the Minister for the Environment and Development, are answered by the Minister for Renewal and Administration on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has been removed. Questions 9 and 10 from the representatives of Harald T. Nesvik and Odd Einar Dørum, respectively, to the Minister of Health and Health, are postponed to the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug to the Minister of Justice, is postponed to the next Question Time when the Minister of Justice has left. The President is pleased that we are then back to more normal and stable conditions, by the fact that the first question is from Svein Flätten to the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e771	I appreciate the fact that the President also has a sense of normal and stable conditions. My question today to the Minister of Finance is this: ‘Adaptation to the EU pension fund directive, the new insurance business law and the associated capital management regulation are disadvantageous to the management of pension enterprises. The freedom of the collective portfolio's positions and the change in the boundaries of asset classes and individual risks only give an illusory greater degree of freedom because the price reserves built up are subject to location restrictions. This discourages long-term investment. Will the Council of States contribute to this change?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e789	The rules governing the capital management of companies must contribute to ensuring adequate sound institutions. The regulations to which the fleet representative refers shall contribute to sound institutions and to the safe pension benefits of the members of the pension fund. The location limits on the collective portfolio and the price control fund shall ensure the spread of risk. In these times, the value of good regulation and good political governance is more evident than elsewhere. But it is not wise to ‘put all the eggs in a basket’ in good times, either. Capital management and asset allocation in Norwegian pension funds do not differ significantly from the situation in Swedish and Danish. Pension funds in these countries had something over 50 pst. of the capital of interest-bearing securities, and neither the share or proportion of the capital invested in other holdings varied significantly between pension funds in those countries. 2008 became a dramatic year in financial markets, with significant falls among others. in the stock indices. In many countries, there is now concern that pension funds and life insurance companies have taken too high a risk in the pursuit of returns, and in some cases this has also been noted. The number of the credit supervision shows the share of the largest pension funds in 2008. They were reduced from 33 pst. until 27 pst. It is imminent to assume that the reduction in the share capital in 2008 is due in whole or in part to market conditions and reduced buffers in the pension funds. The buffer capital of pension funds was 4,5 pst. of administrative capital at the end of 2008, a decrease of 9,2 percentage points compared to the end of 2007. The pension funds lost almost all buffer capital in exchange control funds and additional provisions during 2008 so that at the end of 2008 the buffer capital almost exclusively consisted of original own funds. Several pension funds have been added to new risk capital in 2008. These problems cannot be explained by the regulations to which the fleet refers. However, in 2009, the Ministry intends to assess whether certain provisions of the regulation should be adjusted – not to liberalise, but to ensure the necessary risk spread and thus the future payments of safe pension funds members.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e806	My question was not about liberalizing either. My question was the same as the Minister of Finance, which is to make pension funds more solid. And it's a fact that as the rules now are, this goes the other way. The changes in the law work in the opposite direction for pensioners and for members. In the past, the Minister of Finance has a question – from Lars Sponheim, I think, early in 2008 – that one would consider this in more detail. This has nothing to do with the financial crisis and the kind of thing to do, this is to look forward to seeing how pension funds can best accommodate themselves. Everyone knows that they have lost a lot of money on shares and that kind of investment, but here it is about strengthening the pension funds in the future by giving them a greater freedom of action, so that they get a better return normally.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e813	I can actually just refer to my first answer, because these questions we're going to go through. But it was important for me to say what was the background for us to go through this. 2008 was an incredibly turbulent year for anyone with positions. Especially for those who are going to think in the long term, it is important that the changes that are being made have a long-term perspective. But as I said, we are going to evaluate adjustments now during this year, and I would like to come back to the representative Fleet with this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e818	Then my follow-up question is this: will the Minister of Finance, when she is going to go through this, as she promises, go into the situation that these companies normally have? Or will she start from what I hope will be the 2008 derogation? After all, it is important that we look forward to a normal situation in the future – when we know that this is not liberalisation, but that there are rules to increase the returns of pension funds companies – so that pension funds can be given a better daily life in order to increase their returns, independently, but of course also for the benefit of members in the long term. I would like the Minister of Finance to say something about this, that we are not going to allow the crisis to become completely superfluous, but that we are going to make the future more important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e823	When assessing risk and taking these provisions, it is necessary to assume that we cannot define a normal year and expect that every year will be a normal year. 2008 and 2009 are just going to be examples of that. Although it may be the worst years we've had in the stock market, in 100 years, it's not safe there's 100 more years before a similar crisis that we're seeing now occurs. So what we do when we determine the framework conditions in this area is also to assess the probability and the risk of experiencing years that are completely special. We have to bring that with us. And we have to make sure that what we do is solid in good times and in bad times.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e831	There was a question to the Minister for Transport: ‘The waiting time at the State Road Service is longer than ever, now close to 3 months. This despite the fact that the State Road Service claims that they have tried to cut down the long queues. Authorised National Association of Traffic Schools believes this is a critical situation. What will the Council of State do to improve this unsustainable situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e840	I am aware that the waiting time for practical driving tests varies between the different regions and districts of the State Road Administration, and that it is long at some traffic stations. I refer to the fact that I have answered questions about this earlier this year. It is the East Region that has the biggest challenges associated with waiting times in this area. The Road Directorate reports that on 6 March this year only four out of fifteen traffic stations in this region had waiting times shorter than four weeks. In the other regions, the situation is considerably better. Individual hours of practical driving test will in many cases also be available in a shorter time. The state Road Service is continuously working to reduce the waiting time for candidates and to continue a series of concrete actions undertaken in 2008. This includes better adjustment between Vegvesen’s regions in relation to demand for services, addition of new sensors, hire of temporary workers, use of overtime in the evening and Saturdays, and redeployment of staff from other tasks. The state road authority has a common system of ordering where candidates can choose their own test location. This will allow you to search the test location that has the shortest waiting time. At the same time, this presents a challenge for the Road Service to adapt the capacity for the test run at the individual traffic station. The time of the first available test must also be appropriate for both the candidate and the traffic ball, including. because the traffic ball holds the vehicle for the test. I am aware that it is particularly difficult to ensure sufficient capacity and qualified staff at some central traffic stations in Austria. The state's road system is making a lot of effort to recruit new sensors. Nevertheless, the larger traffic stations have had difficulty filling up the available sensor settings. For example, Stor-Oslo districts throughout the year had about ten job vacancies and relatively few applicants. In order to increase capacity slightly in the short term, the Stor-Oslo district will adjust the driving test setup so that the number of testers per test will be adjusted. Sensor per sensor is being increased today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e851	I thank you for your answer. It is good to hear that the Council of State also acknowledges that these have been cows and problems for many years. We can also notice one partly negative attitude from the Directorate of Roads, such as: claims that people are getting badly prepared and that people are ironing out. I think it's unsustainable from a state budget. The thing is, we do not have any driving test sensors. To try to improve the capacity, the University of Akershu has applied for a vocational offer for traffic instructors, which must be very positive. But they're struggling to establish this. Can the Council of State plan to contribute to this establishment in order to increase capacity and reduce waiting time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e858	I'm not familiar with the initiative that the representative Halleraker refers to, so I can't decide on it on the kick. That's what we're going to get back to. But with the situation we're in, it's important at least to look at how to achieve a balance between access to qualified staff and the challenge of them. I don't know if it's the emission capacity that's the problem, or if the problem is that one is looking for other options. Then one in the case has to go in and see why it happens. So we know that there's a very high percentage of strokes. We also need to include it in this image, because it is clear that it captures capacity. It's just that there's a change in the system so that those who pass the test on the first attempt, in a way, get an economic balance for it, while those who have to try more times get a higher fee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e865	I thank you for your answer. It has left the impression that the State Road Administration does not take this seriously and even exposes a negative attitude to the institutions and those who address this problem, both through a referral to the case in the evening post on 27 February and in correspondence between the State Road Administration and the Akershu College. Now the Council of State has another case, on the establishment of roadside supervision, on its table. There she also has a positive touch from the sample that has investigated this. Can the Council of State imagine that this supervision may also be extended to vehicle and roadside supervision, where such tasks as we are talking about here belong naturally? The parallel of Air Safety — they have defined core tasks, including: control of the aeroplane schools is included – is very relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e872	I have been given an attitude about possible traffic control. In the work we do, it is natural to go in and look at the tasks of such supervision if the Government chooses to proceed with the creation of such supervision. This might be an angle that we need to think about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e880	I have the following questions for the Minister for Transport: ‘The punctuality of railway passenger trains is getting worse and worse. Until this year, trains are significantly more delayed than the average for the 2008 record year. On various occasions, the Council of State has said that conditions will get worse and that they will only improve in 2012. What advice will the Council of State give to train passengers in the meantime, and does the Council of State intend to take any immediate action?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e889	First I have to correct the representative a little. What I've said, which is the quote from Barack Obama, is that it must be worse before it gets better. I'll come back a little bit to the reason that it is. I have also not said that one must wait until 2012 before it gets better. It is getting progressively better, but in 2012 it will be a paradigm shift as we open the West Corridor and get 50 new trainsets in traffic – to be precise. I can confirm that the passenger train has had worse punctuality in the first two months of 2009 than the 2008 average. This is particularly true in February and is mainly related to a lot of snow and cold, which has created major icing problems for the train equipment. Of course, I am not satisfied that there were so many delays in train traffic on most train sections in 2008 and not only that developments have worsened in 2009. However, I assume that the situation when it applies to that particular piece can be better as the snow problems get smaller. In this context, I can also point out that the Railway Agency has set a target of 20 pst for delays in train traffic in 2009. lower than in 2008 in the light of the promises given. As I have previously stated in connection with similar issues from Stortinget, the main cause of the negative developments in train delays is generally the worn-out pattern. The government is about to reverse this, but the implementation of major renewal and works on the network, while at the same time disengagement of train traffic, which has never been more extensive, is not so easy to combine and is an important explanation of the negative development. This is not least the case for train services in the Oslo area and Stavanger area, where there is considerable work being done in both places. As the representative Tenden is aware, there are considerable funds available under this government. the maintenance and renewal of the network through the ordinary rights and by exceptional means of the Oslo project, but also through the Government's 2009 package of measures. This will enable the Railway Agency to carry out extensive maintenance and renewal work on the railway track this year. There will be a particularly high level of activity between April and October. There will be even more means in the national transport plan for upgrading the railways, including: through an exceptional maintenance effort in Oslo. In order to carry out this work one has to assume for periods that the setting of trains on several train sections may be required. In the case of alternative transport, alternative transport shall be established as a substitute. However, travellers have to expect that the journey will take a little longer than normal. Both the Railway Agency and the Railway Undertaking are responsible for providing passengers with good information in settings and delays. Besides on-board information, NSB is currently offering two information services. The one is an easily accessible service on the Internet called ‘Is the train on route?’, where travellers can choose the route and see if there is a problem with the train they are going to travel with. In addition, the NSB provides an SMS service where customers can send a message with from-to-station to phone number 2188 and get feedback on the next four departures. In addition, the NSB is also working to improve traffic information in general. In addition, the railway works to provide better traffic information on their Internet pages while they are in the process of renewing and deploying new information boards, monitors and public address systems at stations. This is part of the initiative that is now being made in the Oslo area through the Oslo project. Because of the many delays in train traffic that we have experienced in recent times, there are naturally enough demands from the regular travellers that a system of travel guarantees must be introduced. The travel guarantee offered to its customers by the NSB until now has been limited to delays and train settings caused by the NSB itself. This is now extended to all options and delays regardless of whether the failure is caused by the train operation itself or by errors on the network. In conclusion, I would like to say that despite the disadvantages now experienced by travellers with train settings and train delays due to works or major renewal work that is going on or that will start in the near future, I hope that most people will understand that these works are absolutely necessary to ensure a more operationally stable railway in the longer term. This must be the objective and therefore an essential part of the management dialogue with both the Railway Agency and the NSB.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e908	I thank the Council of State for the answer. The left proposed an action plan for the railways in the Oslo area in February 2008, a proposal that was defeated. It was then found that in 2006 the Ministry of Transport should have been informed by the Railway Agency that the maintenance needs of the railway were greater than initially assumed. The Railway Agency must therefore have disclosed this to the Ministry of Transport in the same year. In retrospect, and with today's major problems, action should be taken more quickly and with stronger instruments, such as: replacing trains by bus over a longer period of time, so that you got longer work sessions – I have recorded that you had three and a half hours in periods, and then you have to rig up and rig down – and you could wash up and replace yourself more quickly, so that travellers could not experience the unforeseeable over as long as what is happening now?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e917	It is quite right that I was informed in 2006 that for a long time one had seen that maintenance was neglected. That is why I have given priority to maintenance in my budget. I've re-prioritized from investment to maintenance. At first, there was a critical reception in Stortinget, but I find that both in Stortinget and elsewhere in society have a set of need to upgrade maintenance both by rail and road, and that I have thus received support for that idea. The railway system has been given the means they have requested to improve and launch a maintenance operation in the Oslo area and on the most precarious routes. They also have a dedicated project group, including: In cooperation with the NSB, it has been established how best to address these challenges, including: by setting trains for periods.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e924	I thank you again for the answer. The left, of course, agrees that there should be more investment in a modern rail service. One of the challenges that is constantly being addressed is the lack of maintenance, which was also the subject of the Council of State at the moment. The appropriations for operation and maintenance have been a priority area for Stortinget over a long time, so I am very surprised at what the Council of State said now, that it was critically received in Stortinget. And the appropriations have been at a relatively stable level compared to the rise in prices. In the opinion of the Minister of Transport, is it the Storting, is it different governments, or is it the Railway Agency itself that has neglected for a long time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e931	To the same thing as in the general trade, we shouldn't be here for those who are set to do the day-to-day work. Politicians, through alternate governments, are responsible for priorities, for the level of licensing, and for the distribution between investment and operations. The fact that resources for operation and maintenance on the network have been underestimated is, of course, the current national transport plan, and that was why I received information early in the period that a person needed mainly more means of maintenance. The parallel can also be drawn, because it's exactly the same messages we got there. I've been prioritizing maintenance in both areas during this period. I also have intentions to continue that priority when we present a new national transport plan. Because it is absolutely necessary to ensure interoperability, as well as, of course, making major improvements that renew the network in important areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e939	My question is to the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs: ‘It is important to establish unique measurable health function requirements for indoor climates. These exist for radon. Over 10 pst. Norwegian children have the diagnosis of asthma. 175,000 dwellings in Norway have too much radon indoors. The indoor climate of homes, schools, kindergartens and other public institutions is important to all of us. All municipalities have obligations to have an overview of the extent of radon, but less than half have been surveyed. The last, through RaMAP, was made in 2003. Will the Council of State take action to ensure that several municipalities map radon?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e948	This question concerns the responsibility of several departments. I respond accordingly in consultation with both the Ministry of Health and Welfare and the Ministry of Environment. As Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, I am responsible for the structural requirements associated with radon. § 68 of the Law on Planning and Building gives the municipality the right to prohibit construction or to set specific requirements for building land, for building and outdoor areas if radon concentrations are too high. Technical regulation contains recommended limit values for radon concentration in indoor air. In the work on the regulations for the building part of a new law on the construction, I consider that I am tightening up the requirements further. The monitoring of radon is the responsibility of the municipalities and is covered by the Municipal Health Service Act and the Planning Part of the Planning and Building Act. These laws fall under the responsibility of the Minister of Health and Welfare and the Minister for the Environment. So I've received input from both of these state councils. The Minister of Health and Health informed that the municipality, as part of the environmental protection system, should have an overview of the environmental factors involved in the environment and have made an assessment of the health impact on the population. That there are major differences between municipalities in relation to environmental health protection is known. As a result, a review of the whole field of environmental health protection is now under way. It also includes the community's follow-up of the environment in schools, kindergartens, accident prevention work on more. The aim of this review is to strengthen the service and provide a better basis for priorities in line with the value of the different environmental factors. A working group shall be set up to report during 2009. When it comes to radon in particular, before summer, the government will put forward a strategy to reduce radon exposure in Norway. This strategy will include, inter alia: include objectives and strategies to better identify the radon situation in the municipality. The Minister for the Environment states that in the planning part of the new law on planning and building, a separate legal framework has been agreed as regards social security requirements and risk and vulnerability analyses. When drawing up plans, the Board of Governors must verify that the risk and vulnerability analysis is carried out by the proposer of the plan. Otherwise, the planning powers themselves must do it. This obligation shall include, inter alia: in the case of the area of radiant radiation. Furthermore, this legal entity implies that areas with radial radiation are to be marked in the plan as a concern zone. In such zones, prohibitions or conditions for action and activities within the zone may be laid down.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e961	I thank you for your answer and have the following follow-up questions: We are now getting a new law on planning and building, and the department is starting work on regulations and guides to the law. I would assume that the indoor climate will be a topic both in homes and not least in schools and kindergartens. Will the Council of State base this work on clear, measurable health performance requirements?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e968	It is quite right that the representative Lynskrätt now says that there is a work in progress on regulations for the building part of the Law on Planning and Building. So the question is, what should a focus be on? For the first time, there are certain requirements today. The building design shall ensure that people who behave in a construction works are not exposed to radon concentrations in the indoor air, which may increase the risk of health damage, responsible design personnel must carry out assessments of the need for radon measures and it is up to the responsible performers to ensure the correct execution in accordance with the design. So maybe in the next answer we can come back to what we're now looking at in the regulatory work. But let me say that it is clear that schools and buildings where children and young people behave need to be given special attention.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e973	I also thank you for this answer. My last question is: The Norwegian Asthma and Allergy Associations, in cooperation with the leading trade unions, have developed eight criteria which are simple to control and which have a significant impact on the indoor climate of buildings. Will the Council of State involve Norway’s Asthma and Allergy Associations in the further development of regulations and guides in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e980	That's an important question. There is an organisation that has experience in this field. I find it natural to give them the opportunity to make their contributions. Otherwise, let me say that what we have so far to assess is for the first time how we can reduce the flow of radon into barley. Then there may be measures such as pressure change, building ground ventilation, use of a radon barrier, i.e. a membrane, and ventilation technology measures. It is possible to insert such a lock e.g. in all new buildings with a living room towards the ground. We are also looking at whether to set requirements for the ventilation of the building ground that can be activated where measurement shows high concentrations of radon in the indoor air after the construction has been put into use.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e990	This question, from the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Renewal and Administration on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e993	‘Unfortunately, there are many warkeepers who, after more than 60 years, still remain in Norway. In Porsanger municipality and the town of Lakselv, the last year, old landfills of garbage, oil barrels, air bombs and a lot of grenades have been discovered. It's about so big a war settlement that it has to be characterised as a landfill. Defence buildings have soon completed this work, but no authorities want to pay the bill for the cleaning up. Who does the Council of State intend to pay for this, if it is not the Ministry of the Environment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1000	The starting point for the work on the impurity is that the impurity has to pay. In cases where the original urinator no longer exists or is very difficult to find, the pollution law opens up a liability to the owner of the property. Any authority responsible for pollution will be based on a concrete assessment of the situation in each case. The impurity authorities have so far failed to provide a requirement for clearing in Lakselv. When the explosive is detected from the days of the war that poses a danger to life, health and universal movement, it is a public responsibility to remove the threat that the explosive represents. The Minister of Defence has stated that the costs associated with the acute phase of clearing up in Lakselv will be covered by the defence budget. This will also be the starting point for acute clearing operations in the future. There are also leftovers from the war that do not present a direct danger at this time, but that can represent a potential danger in the future by allowing it to emerge over time through soil erosion, digging or the like. War drifts may also include more than explosive. It may be waste which may present a risk of contamination. A work has now been started between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and the Police, which will lead to an assessment of the overarching nature of problems associated with buried explosives from the days of the war, among others. location of the central responsibilities, personnel responsibilities and not least financial responsibilities. It is quite obvious that there is a need to identify the situation more closely in view of what has been done, and what remains of cleaning up in Lakselv. It is also necessary to provide an overview of the amount of decontamination associated with the explosive and the amount of more traditional contamination. This will provide a basis for closer consideration of any cleaning-up requirements and not least of the costs to be borne. The Ministry of the Environment will engage in dialogue with relevant authorities to clarify this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1011	I thank you for your answer. I can inform the Council of State that it does so per year. currently 74 heavy bombs, 3,900 grenades, hundreds of tons of garbage, thousands of cubic steel, concrete and tanks have already been uncovered, which must be removed. Much of this is revealed in a densely populated area. I have to say it's sad to hear, when you've been living in such a situation since 1944, that it's still hard to define who's responsible for the further removal of this. I urge the Council of State once again to respond: Does she not think that someone has to go into such a situation and take concrete responsibility instead of spreading responsibility, so that we experience a situation where no one is responsible?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1018	I thought I was very clear in my reply to the representative Fredriksen when I said that the Minister for Defence has said that the costs associated with the acute clean-up phase in Lakselv should be covered by the defence budget. That means that the Minister of Defence has taken responsibility for that phase. When it comes to further work – not just related to Lakselv, there may be other corresponding areas that need to be cleared – there is a need to clarify who is responsible for what, not only, as I said, for explosive, but also other elements that remain. A work has been started between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and the Police, where one will look at overseeing problem situations related to the buried explosives, but also at the location of the central responsibility, the personnel issues and not least the financial issues, so that it will be all right not only in Lakselv, but also in other areas where one has these challenges. That work is in progress. The Ministry of the Environment shall ensure that a continuing work is carried out and that the matter is resolved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1025	Of course, I am fully aware that there are many other places where this is a problem, not least in Finnmark. But I think it's broken that today, well over 60 years after World War II, you're in an unexplained situation and you haven't defined who has the financial responsibility to remove the legacy. That the defense has a responsibility when it comes to the emergency, we are fully aware. But I would like to see another part of the country where there were so many bombs and grenades in a densely populated area like that in Finnmark. I don't think this would have been a matter several-and-six years after the war was over, if it were bombs in Tønsberg or Fredrikstad. Isn't it time for someone to act and take responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1032	Yes, and that's exactly what the government has done, and that's what I'm referring to. Not only does the Ministry of Defence take responsibility now, including the financial responsibility for the emergency clearance in Lakselv, as the Ministry of Defence does, but one has also seen work being carried out between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Justice and the police department in order to point out a responsible person, one who takes responsibility both for human and for the financial consequences. That clarification must occur between the authorities inside the image. That clarification is in progress. The Ministry of Environment shall ensure that a person has dialogue with the relevant authorities and is given the necessary clarification.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1041	This question, from the representative of Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for the Environment and Development, is answered by the Minister for Renewal and Administration on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1044	I want to ask the following questions: ‘In the Rendalen in Hedmark, the community is heavily plagued by a wolf flock. So critical is this that, among other things, children are transported in taxis to school for their safety. The wolf herd is outside the so-called wolf zone. Does the Council of State, on a general basis, have an understanding of the frustration, uncertainty and reduction of the quality of life it provides to the local population with such a wolf flock in the vicinity?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1053	I want to make it clear that I'm very busy not getting people to reduce the quality of life as a result of having viable predatory wildlife populations in Norway. It is a goal to implement the predatory game policy with the lowest possible level of conflict. Even if it is very unlikely that a host will be exposed to the release of predators, fear that it will happen may be felt as real. When fear causes people to use less land and proximity as a source of increased quality of life, it is unfortunate. Measures such as: transporting children in taxis to school has in exceptional cases been found to be appropriate in order to mitigate conflicts, but there is no need to be seen as evidence that predators in these cases have been a real danger to humans. For wolves in Osdalen, I would like to point out that the Directorate of Natural Management in its assessments has not found that the wolves in this area have a different behavior from other wolves. The director thinks, therefore, that there is no reason to consider wolves in Osdalen as a special risk. It is also important to note that many people perceive it as a gain to have predators in Norwegian nature, and I note that some also assess the potential for value creation and business associated with predatory game. On a world-wide basis, there are many examples of different kinds of wild tourism. I think Norway must also increase the focus on this area in the future. I have great faith that spreading knowledge and experience to show that it is possible to live safely with predators will contribute to a gradual decrease in fear and uncertainty among people. It is important to continue to focus on information and other anti-conflict measures for, among others. ensuring the dissemination of predatory knowledge. The government has therefore invested considerable resources in this area. In the 2009 budget, the entry for prevention and conflict mitigation measures increased by 30 million. kr in relation to 2008. In total, there are 80.5 million in 2009. kr for this purpose. The Directorate for Nature Management's decision not to open up to the killing of the Osdalsflock is the appeal of Norway's Bondelag to the Ministry of the Environment. It is also a warning that the complaint will be sent from the municipality of Rendalen. The review procedure will normally be carried out by the Directorate for Nature Management first making an assessment of the complaints and pre-shipment, if any, to the Ministry. It would therefore not be right for me at this point to go into the concrete assessments in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1064	I thank the Council of State for a supplementary answer. Now I don't entirely agree with everything. I think that when it comes to having wolves out in the wild, there are rather divided opinions about it – depending on whether you're in the area that the wolf is, or whether you're safe outside. In addition, when it comes to living safely with predators, I have very little faith that it is possible. My follow-up question goes on this with the Directorate of Nature Management, which actually looks at what the Stortinget has decided. The size has determined that there should be wolf zones. The wolves we're talking about now are outside the so-called wolf zone and are of great embarrassment, to great frustration, which leads to a reduction in the quality of life for those who live there. Isn't it a little strange that a directorate can look at what the Storting has decided, that we should have breeding wolves in the wolf zone, and if someone is outside, shouldn't it be at the expense of those who are going to live there, so they won't get reduced quality of life?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1073	Now, I and the representative Bredvold disagree as to whether it is possible to have a business that can also have a financial gain within a zone. We see that both in Finland and in Sweden they actually have it within the zones. We also have an example from Norway of a desire to exploit the predatory game zones to create business – tourism, above all. Elsewhere in Europe and in the world, there is also an example of this. But I note that the representative Bredvold has a different view of it. When it comes to the issue of the Directorate for Nature Management, it is precisely the issues currently under review in the Ministry of Environmental Protection. And it's true when it comes to all the complaints, that the ministry obviously does not comment on a specific matter before the decision comes, so I have to let you comment on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1080	I thank you once again for your answer. I want to get back to this with the homely. In many areas, among others: in Hedmark, the number of people living there is being reduced, so it is constantly falling – unfortunately. Housing is about the desire to live somewhere. Therefore, I ask the Council of State: Does the Council believe that a family of children chooses to live in a wolf district, as in this case? Does the council think that those who already live there with young children like to have the wolf lurking around the house, around the kindergarten, around the school, on the school road, so that one does not dare to send their children on bicycles or walking, but that one must take a so-called wolfie? Does the Council of State think that having a wolf around it – as in this case – increases the quality of living and living?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1087	As I said in my first answer, it's not likely from everything we know about wolves – and to the extent that other predators – that one is exposed to killing from predators. But the fear of it can be felt as real. And I can't express myself, because it's going to be a subjective notion, that each one of them has to make up for themselves. But what's really important is that we get to spread the knowledge that we have. And that's what the ministry has seen of significant resources, both pure information dissemination and not least to achieve different mitigation measures – not because a fear of commitment, but because we see that for periods it may be necessary for people to get security. This solution may be one conflict-absorbing measure that makes you feel that you are getting out of the situation. But in the long term, I believe that there is no reason that a person should not have both the blight and the quality of life in this country, even within the predatory zone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1097	«Today, farmers can have more than half a year's work in agriculture and thus more than 20 hours' work in a week and serve about. 50000 kroner on this. Thus, the principal income of the person must come from normal employee income. How will the Council of State contribute to the fact that farmers who combine farming with normal pay and have a little over half a year’s work do not lose their right to a day’s allowance if they lose the job that gives the main income?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1104	Under the People's Security Act, it is a condition for entitlement to daily allowances that working time is reduced by at least 50 pst. of previous normal working hours. Actual work time taken into account by self-employed persons in the calculation of normal working hours. Usual working time is never set higher than 40 hours a week. As a general rule, working hours should not exceed 40 hours per week. Some self-employed, such as farmers, are workers alongside the business and some of them may have a total working time of more than 40 hours a week. The normal working time will then be set lower than their actual working time before the day off, and the right to a daily allowance will be lost if the business activity exceeds 50 pst. of normal working hours, even if they are completely unemployed in their job as workers. It is difficult to take into account, through general rules, all the individual variations that may occur in practice. For example, a regulation had to completely avoid so-called threshold values, such as the 50 pst requirement. reduce working time, become very complicated to understand and enforce. It is also important to maintain the main principles of the day-to-day arrangements, a social security scheme to ensure full or partial unemployment income, while stimulating job search and transition to new work. It is therefore limited how far a person can go in exempting insured persons from these principles in the day-to-day arrangements. It is important that the so-called labour market requirements cover all those who raise the daily allowance. I also remember that the daily allowance, for the reasons mentioned, is limited in time. The requirement of social security for beneficiaries to be genuine job seekers and, initially, to take up any job in Norway is difficult to meet for partially unemployed people with low working hours to offer relevant employers. If too much account is taken of the need for income protection in cases where a combination of part-time activities with part-time pay may lead to unnecessarily long periods of social security. Social security is subsidiary to income from work. We have now seen some cases in which the persons on leave who combine work with business may have been denied partial daily allowances for the reasons I have now explained. The Government has proposed changes to the provisions on leave. The Permitting Code was amended in connection with the treatment of St.prp by Stortinget. No 37 for 2008-2009, on changes in the 2009 government budget with measures for work. The government was also asked to consider further measures. This is what we are doing, and the requirement for a reduction in working time is natural to include among the issues under consideration. Lowered e.g. the requirement to reduce working time may result in more than one person being entitled to a daily allowance. The assessments carried out must be based on the general legislation on daily allowances covering all persons who are wholly or partly on leave or on leave. A separate special scheme related to income from agriculture becomes too special.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1123	I thank the Council of State for a very long response, but I record that the answer was no to change the rules in relation to the fact that sheep farmers can get into the situation that their main income can fall away – and then they are sitting there. Because they make $50,000 a year for sheep farming, they don't get the right to leave. That's a difficult situation. And it's a situation that obviously requires regulatory changes, so that it doesn't become that one has to stop as a sheep farmer because one risks losing their rights if the main source of income, for example. work in a factory or in industry falls away. People don't live on working hours, they live on labour income. Sees the Council of State that it is incredibly difficult for the sheep farmer that I mentioned in my example, if he earns $50,000 in half a year's work and has his main income from an industrial work place where he earns $300,000 a year, because if the 300,000 disappears, he will lose the right to leave because he works these 20 hours a week as a sheep farmer. Does the Council of State see that this is difficult?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1130	I see that, but I see that it is the same situation as for other self-employed people, or for that matter others who have a bibliography next to a full job. The main point of my answer was that no specific rules can be established for individual occupational groups. We have to evaluate those issues on equal footing with others. There are other self-employed people who are in the same situation, they run a bit independently from them, and in this way they do not meet the requirement for daily allowances, especially because today there is a requirement that you have to have 50 pst. reduction of the job in order to receive a day’s pay. And that's precisely in relation to the borderline case we have the main problem, but as I also stressed, this does not apply only to one profession, but is a common regulation for all. Additional work must be included when assessing the degree of reduction in working time in relation to the right to daily allowances.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1135	There are many farms in the country that are not large enough to provide a normal annual income, but they are nevertheless important contributions to, among other things. food production in this country. A sheep farmer with half a year's work contributes to producing sheep meat that we need here in the country. It's that simple. But he can't feed on it. Because of general rules that affect this farmer, he does not dare take the chance of continuing the production of sheep meat because he may risk that exactly the 50,000 he serves there will destroy his basis. So this would mean that the rules, because a person calculates time and not income, would threaten his extra income on the farm that is important for food production in the country. My last supplementary questions to the Council of State will be: why can't a self-regulate for agriculture, which is such a special industry, and which is an important industry and an industry which, because of its geography in this country, is such that you can't live by, for example, Sheep herd alone? Why can't someone get special rules?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1142	It is because there are many others who also contribute positively to the value creation in the districts and to the whole country, in the form of additional work, whether it is taxiing or what it may be in addition to a full job, or it is self-employment other than agriculture. What's the main point for me is that here we have to treat the boundaries of what's going on in order for a port in the situation that one should have replaced his income with benefits from popular security.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1150	My question to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion is as follows: «At a press conference on Monday 23 February this year, the Council of State stated: «Those who worked in Nav in the New Year may stay in Nav. There has been an impression that Nav has to cut down while the queues are growing. It is wrong, and I confirm that temporary jobs in Nav are continued." The undersigned has received enquiries, among others. from a woman who works in a temporary position in the Nav Administration Telemark, she has now been informed that she will not be allowed to continue after 5 March this year. How will the Council of State follow up its own opinion of 23 February 2009?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1159	The administrative unit of Telemark was established in the first half of 2008. The Employment and Welfare Directorate has briefed me that some temporary jobs were created during the start-up phase to solve new tasks. The Employment and Welfare Directorate has further briefed me that Nav Telemark decided to complete these temporary posts in favour of six permanent posts from the autumn of 2008. These posts were then advertised externally with an application deadline of 6 December 2008. Employees in the temporary posts applied for the vacant permanent posts together with other external applicants. Employees in the middle-time jobs were invited to interview, together with the other applicants. On 3 February 2009, six persons were appointed by the Council of Accession in the permanent posts. I am informed that, after the press conference on 23 February, the Directorate for Labour and Welfare informed all employees that the agency could expect to continue its staffing level overall from 2008. It does not imply that guarantees have been given in relation to the duration of the individual's employment. Of course, all employment shall be treated in accordance with the rules and regulations in force. By 20 March at the latest, there will be a roll-out proposal and the proposal will set out in detail the premise for the establishment of the labour and welfare management, the overall situation of the Labour and Welfare Act, the status of the implementation of the Nav reform, a review of the actions undertaken, and strategies and actions to ensure the regular functioning of the network and the implementation of the Nav reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1168	I thank you for your answer. Let me say this: this is not only true in Telemark, because even around the other Nav districts – if you can use that term – you have temporary employees. At the press conference that was held on 23 February, I think many people left with the impression that those who had temporary jobs would be allowed to continue. I think many people had a hope and a belief that they would be allowed to continue in the job, even if the temporary period went out once during the winter or spring. That's not the case. I also know Nav Telemark, and I know that, among other things. was recruited in temporary posts in the autumn of 2008. They have, as the Council of State was about to do, been converted into permanent posts. My first follow-up question to the Council of State will be: Can the Council of State understand that those who have held temporary posts and who are not allowed to continue are disappointed and find it strange in relation to the opinions given at the press conference on 23 February?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1179	I understand that people who have a temporary position seem sad and disappointing if the temporary position is not continued – but not on the basis of what I said on 23 February. I then said that we would ensure that the position level in Nav was maintained. Of course, within an organisation with 14,000 employees, you are free to work differently in the counties – move jobs. When, for example: becomes vacant in Høyanger, needs an extra job there, right? But the point is that we are maintaining the level of activity and the level of employment that was at the time I expressed myself. To the question of permanent jobs: I generally believe that for employees permanent jobs are preferred to temporary jobs. The fact that some temporary jobs are converted into permanent jobs is, in fact, an advantage for the employees and a security for the Nav employees, not a disadvantage. But that's the total resource level that's going to continue. Of course, I do not sit and deal with each of the 14,000 jobs in Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1186	I fully understand that the Council of State does not sit and deal with each of the 14 000 posts. But then the Council of State has said in the past, and also underlined today, that Nav will retain the staff they had at the end of 2008, also in 2009. I'm glad, and it's positive. In addition, in the context of the action package, the Stortinget has decided that 320 new temporary posts will be transferred to Nav as a result of, among other things. the financial crisis. This means that more people — more than one year’s work — are actually going into the Nav system than was the case in 2008, and then it becomes extremely difficult to understand that many of those who have had temporary jobs and who have been trained now lose their job. You bring in new people to be trained. Is not the Council of State concerned that such a shift of labour — with more training — will create greater balances and lower procedural treatment?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1193	Increasing the activity and efforts in the form of labour as much as we did last fall involves just such a challenge as the representative talks about. It takes time in terms of training, and it takes time for a person to get the results of the new resources. When you have had people in temporary jobs in Nav, and the period is extended, it is common for those in temporary jobs to continue. I'm saying that's the most common thing. So to the case from Telemark, as it was asked, where temporary jobs were converted into permanent jobs. I think that's positive. It is such that other than those who had the temporary posts are also entitled to apply for a permanent job. Through the application process, six people now have permanent jobs instead of temporary jobs. With regard to some of these jobs, I assume that more qualified applicants have been given to the permanent jobs than was the case with the temporary jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1200	The President will remind the Council of State that all speeches are to go through the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1206	From the representative of Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Health and Welfare: «The undersigned refers to the World Gang on 26 February, where it appears that the Rikshospital will cut in the obesity treatment at the Coast Hospital in Stavern. This offer, as I signed it, is a very good offer to a vulnerable patient group. How does the Council of State address the possible closure of this offer at the Coastal Hospital, and what action, if any, will it take to ensure that the offer is continued, at least as much as it is at present?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1217	From the representative Odd Einar Dørum to the Minister for Health and Welfare: ‘The Mayor of Nordre Aker Town in Oslo shouts caution because sick elderly patients who have to have a hospital or supervision at home are discharged prematurely from the hospitals. What will the Council of State do in the short term to ensure that printing practices in hospitals for seriously ill elderly people improve?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1228	From the representative Leif Helge Kongshaug to the Minister for Justice: ‘In the police district of Nordmøre and Romsdal, there is frustration and disbelief in briefings that these days are given that the county office in many municipalities is about to disappear. This also applies to large municipalities with a population of up to ten thousand inhabitants. The justification is too tight a financial framework. The presence of police and the proximity of the Länsmannskontoret is important for the inhabitants of any municipality. Does the Council of State agree with such centralisation of the Länsmannskontoret as it now appears to be added?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1236	Questions 9 to 11 are postponed until the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1242	‘StatoilHydro has withdrawn from the work of establishing a test centre for marine energy production on Karmøy. So have other companies. The reason is that the State did not wish to contribute financially to the organisation of this centre. How will the Council of State contribute to the continuation of work on this centre?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1249	There is currently a significant interest in research, development and development of wind power in Norway. The government wants to promote these developments by stimulating actors with good competence in this area. It is the Research Council and Enova that are the main tools of the Government in this context. The Research Council supports early development-chain activities, and Enova provides support for full-scale testing of technology and the development of full-scale wind farms. StatoilHydro sent in May 2008, in cooperation with Lyse and Fred. Olsen, an application for aid to the Ministry for the construction of common infrastructure for testing marine renewable energy production outside Karmøy. The project included an extension of StatoilHydro's sea cable to the Hywind project from 2,3 MW to 15 MW, allowing more marine energy concepts to be tested in addition to Hywind. The result was that StatoilHydro is expanding the Hywind project with a 15 MW cable without support. Expected start of project during year. Karmøy Municipality has given its support to the Oil and Energy Ministry for StatoilHydros test park. It will form the basis for the establishment of the Marin Energy Test Center Karmøy – MET Center, which is called – which is run as a separate project with several stakeholders. Karmøy Municipality applied to the Ministry of Oil and Energy in August 2007 for support for a pre-project to investigate such a centre. The application was not supported, as such a project would fall outside the scope of the Ministry. The Ministry of Oil and Energy has not received an application for aid to the MET Centre since then. There are many initiatives to set up test centres and test areas for testing new marine energy technologies. It is important to see these initiatives in context. It is also important that initiatives are as coordinated as possible. Different efforts are also being made to examine the need and basis for setting up such centres. In autumn, I commissioned Enova to investigate the business base for establishing a common infrastructure for demonstration projects in marine renewable power generation. The process showed that there are many stakeholders in such projects, including different research environments, commercial companies, local interests and government bodies. However, the main conclusion is that there is no commercial basis for the establishment of such an infrastructure today. Enova will continue the process of clarifying users’ needs. The Ministry is now working on a national marine renewable energy strategy that includes research and technology development, overall land assessments for the development of marine renewable energy, etc. The aim is to present legislative proposals and strategies to the Storting before the summer. I am dedicated to facilitating the exploitation of marine renewable energy resources. However, I see that there is a need to clarify the roles of the state and the private actors here. I would therefore like to invite the initiators behind the test facility and the MET centre to meet on this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1266	The Council of State says that it is outside the agency’s guidelines to provide support for this centre. It's about a center that has activity in an area that representatives of the government have said is a very high priority. A desire to exploit the great potential available for marine energy production. At such a stage, it is often necessary to turn around and adapt to the new needs beyond what is organised in existing guidelines, precisely by exploiting an opportunity that emerges. And here was StatoilHydro, Light Energy and Peace. The oil is a scheme on which they invited the state to attend, to facilitate further testing of marine energy production, and the application was addressed to the Ministry of Oil and Energy. How does this relate to this expressed ambition to bet in this area, when one is not willing to contribute to trigger the potential that lies here, as it is made visible on Karmøy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1271	Firstly, I explicitly said in my speech that it is outside the Ministry's scope of action, and I am absolutely sure that the representative Kvassheim knows well about budget lines and arrangements in the oil and energy department's budget, which is adopted in the Stortinge every harvest. Despite good intentions and wishes to do so, it is a reality that, within the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy, there are no concrete items that justify the use of money/transfers to the type of project that was included in the application received by the Ministry of Oil and Energy last year in this case. I think the representative Kvassheim is well acquainted with my ambitions here. I note that the representative Kvassheim also has considerable ambitions in this area. At the same time, I say that I want to meet with the actors to learn more about their thoughts. But in any case, one does not get away from the fact that within the budget of the Ministry of Oil and Energy it is not organized for the type of project through the entries that are there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1278	The problem is that the established instrument system is not adapted to the new instruments and is therefore unable to respond sensibly to this type of initiative. I have registered that representatives of the government parties, among others. Tore Nordtun, says that this project is well in line with the climate agreement's intention and commitment to marine energy production. Nordtun has also said that the last word has not been said in this case, pointing out that there should be a new allocation round for the summer. Is it right that the last word has not been said about this application, and that there is a real chance that these 30 million. kr will be granted, so that you will be able to relaunch this split-up between private actors and the public?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1285	I finished my first post saying that I want to have a meeting with the actors to get a detailed description of the project and what they are working on. In this way, the representative of Nordtun said and signed the same thing in relation to the fact that these are interesting perspectives that are being said and worded a lot about in that project at Karmøy, so I want to be more informed about it. But once again, in the case of the instrumentation, the representative Kvassheim would like to think that it is not adapted to the time we are in, but in any case the Ministry of Oil and Energy as the recipient of an application is no department for the allocation of concrete funding for such a project. I believe deep down that the representative Kvassheim also knows very well. What assessments Enova will make of a specific application in this area, I cannot conclude here. But that the investment in wind and the type of projects within which the Hywind project and the MET centre at Karmøy are located is within the scope of what we want to get solutions to, is quite clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1295	My question is: ‘According to Today’s Economy on 2 March, State Secretary Robin Kåss ‘it may be necessary to proceed with a full scale plant before all experience from the test facility has been gained’. Professionals would argue that such a urgency poses a high risk of inappropriate choice and poor use of resources. Does the Council of State support the assessments of its State Secretary, and what, in that case, is the Council of State’s reasoning in view of the fact that such an urgency will increase the risk of developing a technologically robust and economically sustainable CO2 clean technology?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1307	CO2 management is a necessary measure to reduce greenhouse gas emissions both in Norway and in the rest of the world. This must be in addition to the investment in renewable energy and energy efficiency. The International Energy Agency, the IEA, highlights the capture and storage of CO2 as crucial for achieving the 2 degree target. This is also the background to the Government's commitment to CO2 capture and storage. The government is focused on developing the best possible project in Mongstad. The project is not only about capturing CO2 from gas power production in Norway but also about contributing to the development of commercial technologies, so that countries such as China, India and other major countries with significant emissions can also use this technology to reduce their emissions in the context of increasing energy production. It is through concrete projects that we can contribute to the development of CO2 management technologies and ensure widespread use in Norway and other countries. I believe that Norway, as a producer of fossil energy sources, should be the leader in reducing its own greenhouse gas emissions. The Master Plan of StatoilHydro shows that it is technically feasible to capture more than two million tonnes of CO2 from the CHP plant and the refinery in Mongstad. I don't think it's time to lose time working on reducing these emissions. We have gained experience and gained knowledge from the project at Mongstad for more than two years. Further work will continue until the completion of the full-scale plant. Both the planning work and the technology centre will be useful for the development of the full-scale plant. We can all agree that the work on realising CO2 management is demanding. CO2 capture technologies are still untapped on a larger scale – including worldwide. But we are doing concrete work on Mongstad. This work is important for reducing Norwegian emissions and for enabling CO2 management technologies to become interesting in a global perspective.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1347	I thank you for the answer, but I don't feel that the Council of State actually answered the challenge. It became a general project review that I am well-known from before, and that thus does not bring in anything new. When I address the question, it's not that we're going to have a discussion for or against CO2 capture, but there's a question of how to do it in the best possible way. Things indicate that the Mongstad project will cost at least NOK 25 billion, and there is a lot of money that you could possibly have spent on other things. In addition, when it is known that there are 5,000-8000 plants to be cleaned, if this is done, it is of relatively marginal importance to clean Mongstad one or two years earlier, if you are not able at the same time to get to a technology that is so robust that others want to use it. So I ask again, what makes the government so hasty here that you don't even want to take into account the results of the test facility, and how likely is it that it will actually put CO2 capture into use on a large scale in the world?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1362	I think I answered the question, but it is not certain that the questioner liked the answer I gave. My entrance here is that we're working in parallel with two challenges. One is, as I said in my answer, the international perspective and the fact that through the technology centre in Mongstad, and also through the experience of the full-scale facility, we are going to put in place a technology that is possible to use even in countries that are not the richest in the world, and that have many concrete point emissions, to which the questioner also referred. That's the one. The second is that we have a job to do in Norway in order to actually start cleaning high point emissions, and there I find that I am considerably more impatient than the representative Solvik-Olsen is. There's an honest disagreement, that I'm more concerned about bringing down the Norwegian emissions than the questioner is. So I think that here we have to combine the two objectives with putting in place a technology center at the top of the world that is really going to help spread technology and make CCS workable in other countries too, but that we have to work on our own national project, where emissions are going to decrease.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1371	Sometimes it is not enough to be impatient – you have to be so busy with the results you can get. If you spend one or two years more researching and making the technology work, you'll get better results in the long term than if you had a hurry to build a full-scale facility before you got the results from the test facility just because you have a national account to take into account. Once again, this impatience will mean that you can actually end up building a full-scale plant that doesn't work very well. In addition, when building a full-scale plant on Kårstø, which has not been tested in advance, you end up cleaning the two large point emissions in the form of gas plants in Norway, and then you have to ask yourself: if you continue to develop the technology, does that mean that to test out in full scale you have to tear down Mongstad and Kårstø to rebuild, to prove to the world that you have got something that works, or to go out in the rest of the world? So the point here is that instead of rushing off farms to build something big that doesn't work, you should be sure that what you're building works before you put the spade in the ground. Isn't that a logical approach?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1376	We're not building to tear. We build to put in place a sewage treatment plant that will be the best in the world at the time this plant comes up. Nor is it the case that we have no competence to build sewage treatment plants. We have a lot of knowledge and technology in Norway. There is also international technology available in this area, so it's not about building a facility that we don't think is a fully-fledged facility. At the same time, we see that in relation to the particular cost element, we have to crack considerably more codes than we have clearly so far, because we are unable to make the technology applicable worldwide with the cost picture we see, for example. at the full-scale plant in Mongstad. So it's not like we're running at some rock age level to start at Mongstad right now. We need to solve the emissions problems in Mongstad, and the construction of that plant will also be a driver for getting new technology and gaining experience that can be transferred to other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-11.ana.ud229e1381	Then today's regular Question Time is over. Today's map has been processed successfully. Does anyone ask for the word according to Section 37(a) of Stortinget’s Rules of Procedure? - The meeting's been cancelled.
