ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e53	Three permit applications are available: from the representative Mr Bård Vegar Solhjell on parental leave from 30 November to 26 February from the representative No Marte Thorkildsen on parental leave from 30 November to 30 May from the representative Borghild Tenden on welfare leave from 30 November to 5 December On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates are invited to meet during the leave period: For Akershus County: Rannveig Kfifte Andresen and Abid Q. Raja For the Vestfold counties: Lars Aegean
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e108	A unanimous municipal and management committee is behind the vote and joins the Government’s proposal to extend the Husbank loan framework for 2009 by NOK 2 billion, to a total of NOK 16 billion. There has been a strong demand for mortgage loans throughout 2009. In the state budget for this year, a loan framework of DKK 12 billion was originally adopted. It was extended to DKK 14 billion in the action package against the financial crisis presented in January. At the end of the third quarter, 90 pst. of the new loan framework used up. The house bank has an important role to play in the dissemination of start-up loans to disadvantaged people in the housing market, loans to kindergartens and basic loans to new or rehabilitating existing dwellings. The increased lending activity under the direction of the Husbank has more positive effects. This year, municipalities have taken greater advantage than in previous years of taking up start-up loans, probably because private banks are still more reluctant to provide loans to new housing projects than they were before the financial crisis. At the end of September, the increase in the number of start-up loans was 17 pst. This means that municipalities take responsibility and assist people who have problems establishing themselves in the housing market or need refinancing because they are at risk of losing their housing. In order to obtain loans in the House Bank, housing must meet universal design and environmental requirements. This serves both the individual purchaser and society over time. It is gratifying that so many housing manufacturers are now adapting to the new quality requirements. It makes the housing stock more sustainable and provides more dwellings that can be used by everyone. In view of the large number of kindergartens built in recent years, the House Bank had expected a decline in the demand for loans to kindergartens this year. It hasn't happened. It means that a large number of kindergartens are still being built. In a period of major challenges for the construction industry, the Husbank plays an important role in keeping the activity and employment up. The increase in the Husbanken loan framework has been received with pleasure in the Land Association of Construction and the rest of the industry. A unanimous committee today contributes to the use of the House Bank as a tool in counter-cyclical policy. It's especially gratifying that the right hand parts are involved in this. If the House Bank had been privatised, as some have suggested, we would not have had this opportunity. As late as 2003, then municipal minister Erna Solberg warned against using the House Bank to counter recessions. – If the House Bank is used in this way, it can reinforce negative spirals and lead more people into an economic crisis, said the Right Leader at that time. What we're now seeing is that the House Bank contributes exactly the opposite.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e129	I am very pleased that a Joint Municipal and Managing Committee has agreed to increase the loan frame to the House Bank by NOK 2 billion, so that the House Bank does not run out of loans in 2009. The large demand for loans from the House Bank shows the importance of the Bank for financing housing in Norway and for employment in the construction industry. Especially important is the role in difficult times when private banks refuse to lend. The household bank is then an important and necessary supplement to the private banks. In the platform for this government, also referred to as Soria Moria II, it is therefore clear that we attach great importance to the House Bank as housing policy tools. We will also in the years to come make sure that the bank has a loan framework that covers the demand. In this way, the Government will help to ensure the supply of cheap, reasonable housing, so that housing can be kept at a high level. The Loan Board in the House Bank is in 2009 for NOK 16 billion, to which the Stortinget now joins in the submission to increase the loan frame by NOK 2 billion. In 2010, the government proposed a loan framework of DKK 15 billion, which is DKK 1 billion lower than the 2009 frame. Some have asked questions about the Loan Framework in 2010 when it is sufficient. It's hard to say now if the borrowr frame is big enough in 2010. It depends on a number of factors in housing and financial markets. What I can say now is that I want to follow developments closely, and if necessary I will return to the Stortinget with suggestions to increase the loan frame.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e140	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 594]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e157	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 595]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e174	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 595]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e195	The overall objective of health policy is to ensure that all patients receive rapid and good health care when they need it. Sickness if the Norwegian population has access to good health care, it turns out that we still have significant challenges. Norway is at the top of the world when it comes to spending money on health per year. the population. At the same time, we're just mediocre when someone measures what we get out of the resources. We have seen relatively more doctors, nurses and nurses than other countries, but we are still ranked only in the eighth place of health services in European countries. There is a broad political consensus that this is due to organisational failure and structural weaknesses. The size will therefore deal with the Interaction Reform in the coming year, which will contribute to better health provision. Today, we experience that many people get too poor health care at an early stage of their illness, as well as that municipal health services are too poor and lead to too many patients having to be treated in the specialist healthcare service. As an example, twice as many sick elderly people with pneumonia are admitted to hospitals in Oslo compared to Stockholm. This is often due to mismedication and a lack of competence and medical equipment in Norwegian hospitals. There is a political consensus that we need to upgrade the municipal health service. A key prerequisite for success in this is that the right will be to equip the municipalities with more medical skills, by strengthening the nursing homes with more doctors and nurses. Interaction reform will also affect pharmaceutical policy. For a long time, it has been clear that there is a great deal of mistreatment in Norway, and the TV 2 news has focused on this on several occasions. On 12 October, they were able to show that older people were being mistreated on a large scale. Medicinal products are eliminated for elderly hospital residents without necessarily having an effect — while over-medication and the use of the wrong medicine are very serious and may lead to serious side effects. The assistant director of Health Directorate Bjørn Guldvog states that this is serious, and he admits to TV 2 that many older people suffer from mistreatment. ‘This entails significant costs for individual, in the form of failing health and any serious complications. This means that healthcare needs to do things that could be avoided, and in the worst case, it will have serious consequences for individuals. So this is an important field to get good control of," clarifies Guldvog versus the TV2 news. On 31 October TV 2 reopened the case and presented the Health Authority's review of the medicinal product management in 48 hospitals. These showed deviations and comments at 40 of them. On November 20, we were able to read in the Sunnmørspost about an 85-year-old woman who got her dose of cellular drugs sevenfold, with serious consequences, and she ended up in a hospital. This is serious, and it shows that there is a great need to strengthen the competence of medicinal products management. I am pleased that the Right will be in favour of increased use of pharmaceuticals, which, in cooperation with other healthcare professionals, can ensure good and safe use of medicines. In the spring of 2005, the Co-operation Board submitted St.meld. No 18 for 2004–2005, Straighten the course towards better drug use. A key objective of this policy was to ensure faster access to new medicines and better drug management for Norwegian patients. The cancellation message already confirmed that mismedication occurs in about 20 pst. of all treatment courses. The message outlined a number of improvement measures. These include: a review of the medical use of patients in, for example: hospital, hospital, home care – and pharmacy. Overall lack of interaction in Norwegian health services is a major challenge, requiring all health care actors to increase the level of interaction and adopt new methods. Today, more than 2,300 pharmacists work in the country’s pharmacy. More than 1,100 of these have five years of university education. Already today, pharmacists are practicing interaction with doctors for the benefit of the patient. The contribution of apothecary to medically assisted rehabilitation is a good example of how to provide effective models for drug-drug interaction with other health care services. My intention of the interpellation here today is to have a debate that can help to put this much better in the system of the cooperation reform. Through mutual and structured cooperation with the community health service, pharmacists will be able to contribute to ensuring the use of medicinal products and health for each citizen of society. Doctors with whom I have been in contact all too often claim that lack of interaction in the healthcare system creates problems for patients, that there is no structured system for medical and pharmaceutical interaction with regard to problems that arise during prescription dispatch in the pharmacy. The interaction message has not problematised or addressed all the challenges of drug use and drug management, despite the fact that we know that this costs in terms of quality of life and loss of life. We also know that in many cases there is an increase in waiting time for treatment and thus a significant increase in social health costs. The aim of the Interaction Reform is to make the different groups of health professionals and the different levels of healthcare interact more closely than they do today. The reform is built around doctors and interaction between specialist health services and community health services and other groups of health professionals, involving physiotherapists, nurses and psychologists. What we see is that a large group of health professionals, namely pharmaceuticals with a high level of medicine competence, are very little involved in the reform. We have, as said, 650 pharmacies, each of which is a local unit of expertise with its own medical experts, which means that a large proportion of the population of Norway have the drug expertise in their community. It is therefore difficult to understand that this important competence is no longer being used. Misuse of medicinal products costs human suffering, loss of earnings and poor use of community money. There is therefore every reason to ask questions about whether we as a society should continue to accept that 5-10 pst. the hospitalisations in the medical department are due to misuse of medicinal products, and 1 out of 130 deaths are caused by the same, without using available competences and resources to reduce these figures. I look forward to answering my questions in the interpellation of the Council of State and a constructive debate on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e234	I am pleased that the representative of Røbekk Nörve addresses this central theme of the pharmaceutical notification, Straighten the course towards the right pharmaceutical use. As described in both the notification and the health surveillance reports, errors and uncertainties in the use of medicinal products can have major consequences for patients. Of course, I take this very seriously. We clearly have an improvement potential both in the specialist health service and in the health and care services in the municipalities. When overseeing the use of medicinal products in hospitals, the Health Authority has assessed whether the management of the municipality and the hospital have systems to ensure that patients receive the necessary and proper medical treatment. They have examined whether the treatment is being evaluated and followed up, whether there is good and available evidence, and whether the hospital is adequately competent. The deviations found at the 48 nursing homes are of different severity. In the vast majority of hospitals, there are deficiencies in the health care system and in the management and management of the medical services of hospitals. Such deviations mean that the legislation is not complied with. The municipality or institution is obliged to rectify these deviations. Health supervision follows up the nursing homes until the documented deviations are closed. State health surveillance is also to be carried out in 2010 with regard to the supervision of the municipal services of the elderly. Among other things, these services shall be subject to country-wide supervision as part of a comprehensive plan for the supervision of health and social services of the elderly for the period 2009 to 2012. We have proposed to strengthen this supervisory work by 4 million. kr in the next year's budget. As the representative of Røbekk Nørve refers to, the notification of medicinal products outlines several measures to strengthen the follow-up to the use of medicinal products at patient level. In line with the notification, a number of pilot projects have been launched to assess the effectiveness and benefit of reviewing patients’ drug use. In 2006 and 2007, 25 such projects were funded. This year, too, funding has been provided for 10 projects involving the interaction of health professionals, the use of multidose and the prescription and use of addictive drugs. The Health Directorate has summarised the projects in an interim report and assessed the actions we should pursue. I'll mention some of the recommendations. Medical reviews in hospitals are identified as the clearest recommendation. This means that a multidisciplinary team, involving the pharmaceutical industry, is going through the patient’s drug use – which was also the subject of the interpellant – and is considering whether or not something should be changed. That's how you figure out what's the best treatment for this particular patient. The experience gained from the projects also shows that patients’ drug use should be reviewed when changing care levels, such as hospital admissions and hospital discharges. More research is needed here to find good ways to do it. Such projects are under way within the annual budgets. Drug conversation between patients and pharmacists is another important measure. In a medical conversation, the patient’s own questions about his or her use of medicinal products are taken into account. In such a one-to-one conversation, the pharmacist can reveal what the patient needs to know more about, and provide an understanding of the importance of taking drugs in the right way. The Health Directorate will continue with the experience of pilot projects, in particular those relating to the use of medicinal products in hospitals. The systemic use of drug reviews is a high priority. There will also be a need to look at the manning and competence of hospitals and how management can facilitate the proper use of medicinal products. The Health Authority points out that there are deficiencies in the management and management of the medical services in the nursing homes. Improving the medical services in municipalities is a central element of the Interaction Reform, which Stortinget will deal with in the spring. We would like, among other things: consider clearer municipal governance of the general medical public tasks that can be imposed on doctors and clearer municipal governance of their curative activities to ensure that practices are in line with health policy priorities. During the work on the Interaction Reform, it became clear that failure in the patient’s course could occur at all levels of healthcare, in particular by changing the level of care. A working group dealing specifically with medicinal products drew on four main reasons for failure in this area. These were: lack of information exchange, lack of overview, lack of patient training and the fact that no one is responsible for the whole of the treatment. It's e.g. Not uncommonly, the same patient is in many different doctors and institutions — it may be regular, medical care, specialist and hospital — without having an adequate overview of the drugs prescribed by the others. If medicinal products are prescribed on a faulty or incorrect basis, this may in turn lead to mis-medication, treatment failure, unnecessary side-effects for the user and unnecessary social costs. The Working Party supported the Health Directorate’s recommendation to engage in multidisciplinary drug reviews and discussions with the patient. The learning and mastering centres may be the relevant venues for such calls. These centres are currently part of health businesses and are often operated in cooperation with user organisations. Competent personnel are the main success factor in healthcare. It also applies to good medicinal product management. A new master's degree in clinical pharmacy has been started at the University of Oslo. It started in the fall with 14 students. Further training shall provide pharmacists with the competence to identify, prevent and manage drug-related problems and shall acquire good skills to provide guidance to patients, relatives and health professionals. Health surveillance points out that lack of documentation systems is often the cause of failure and failure of medical treatment. The working group shared this view and concluded that necessary and up-to-date information on the patient must be available to all healthcare professionals who need it. The establishment of an electronic core file is the main measure proposed to provide a comprehensive overview of the individual patient’s drug use, allergies and information that may be important in an emergency situation. The introduction of nuclear records will also be able to prevent accidental incidents in diagnosis and treatment and to increase the safety of both the patient and healthcare professionals. But it's a bit up to this. Electronic core journals require the whole of Health Norway to be online with good ICT solutions. We have set up the Norwegian Health Network SF, which will coordinate efforts to establish a secure national network for the management and communication of information in the health and care sector. I want to put a lot of pressure on this work. As I have now explained, I take the reports from the Health Authority seriously. The government will work through the various measures I have mentioned to ensure that patients are properly and comprehensively treated, regardless of which part of their healthcare they are in.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e274	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. Thanks for the positive willingness to clean up this unworthy situation that many of our sick, often elderly, are in. I hope that there will be rapid changes, and that there will be no promises and much talk, as we have unfortunately experienced, not only with this government, but for many, many years. It is a great shame for all of us, for the whole nation, that this is happening in Norway now, in 2009. It is therefore not enough just to shift responsibility to the municipal sector. We need more doctors, and we need more nurses and other professionals who, together with the knowledge of the pharmacists, will be important for our success in this work. The Boards of Governors mentioned several pilot projects, such as coordination with the pharmaceutical industry in hospitals. I think it's very positive that this has started, and that there's so much going on. I hope that this is not just on a trial plan and is something temporary, but that something happens quickly outside. As a follow-up to the notification of the medicinal product and with public funding, several pharmacies have participated in a pilot project with a pharmacy call. Pharmacists were shown to be able to identify drug-related problems based on a 30-minute conversation with patients. A total of 135 drug calls were made with 135 patients using a total of 1003 medicinal products. There were 543 drug-related problems registered in 127 of the 135 calls. The doctor was contacted at 90 of the prescriptions, and the prescriptions were changed in 51 of them. Furthermore, pharmacists advised all patients and proposed changes to 128 drug-related problems. The advice and changes mainly concerned the practical use of medicinal products, while the situations raised with doctors were of a therapeutic nature. The study revealed that 32 pst. of the patients were unaware of the use of one or more of their medicinal products. The patients were very satisfied with the service, and the pharmacists felt that they had sufficient and good competence. The Health Directorate has subsequently concluded that pharmacies can be a venue for the conduct of drug calls. They also write that there is a desire for a further effort to regularly review the pharmaceutical consumption of healthcare providers by multidisciplinary teams involving pharmaceuticals, as the Council of State also pointed out. My follow-up question to the Council of State will be: Has the Council of State and the Ministry of Health concluded with regard to the further follow-up of the recommendations made by the Directorate here? Is this something that is now being taken seriously, and not just being put in a drawer?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e291	Let there be no doubt that what is revealed in this report is some kind of deviation that we absolutely cannot allow. Therefore, it is also good that the Health Inspectorate has gone through the situation so thoroughly in these 48 hospitals, and has seen how it actually is. It is quite right, as the interpellant also says, that the misuse of medicinal products and the lack of control in this area can lead to unnecessary suffering and, in the worst case, death. That's why it's an important area that's being addressed here. Health surveillance will also follow up in the counties where deviations have been found. As I also said in my post, we change the course in a number of areas. Not least is what is being considered about the role of pharmacists, something new here. Calls for medicinal products shall be made and the competence of pharmacists shall be enhanced. At the same time, we know that in many municipalities doctors in hospitals have not been sufficient. It is an important issue in the context of the Interaction Reform to see if we can get better formalisation, so that decision-makers can work more in hospitals. The interaction reform lies in Stortinget, and that is something we will come back to in connection with it. Let me also mention an area that I think is of particular importance, namely the exchange of information. Patients who walk between their regulars, doctors, and hospitals, as well as hospitals, are treated by different doctors. The fact that you have electronic records with which patients have them, so that all doctors see what is prescribed in the past, is of the utmost importance. This is an area I want to keep a lot of pressure on, and as I really see we have to get on further than we are today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e300	The interpellant addresses a problem that is important for all patients, and for all those using drugs. Older people use drugs more often than younger ones. Therefore, proper use of medicinal products is particularly important for older people. It is stated that as many as one in 10 hospitalisations in the elderly are related to drug use. It shows the size and importance of the issue. The Health Authority writes in its 2008 report, among other things: that pharmaceutical-related problems can be avoided if the use of medicinal products is regularly reviewed and adjusted. One tool to achieve this is cooperation. I support the view that cooperation on the proper use of medicines can be even better, and here our pharmacists have specific knowledge that should be used much more. It also follows that proper use of medicinal products should be part of our work on better interaction in the sector at large. The big business of the cooperation reform will be a good and important opportunity here. I am pleased that we are addressing this and all the other issues that can create an even better health service, even closer to patients, in the years that are coming.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e311	The medicinal product area is a major and central part of healthcare activities, and errors may involve a risk of serious injury to patients. There are many groups of health professionals involved in the handling of medicinal products. They have different roles and different competences in this area. As the interpellant has pointed out, studies have shown that mismedication occurs in about 20 pst. of all treatment courses. It's also revealed that up to 10 pst. hospitalisations in a medical department have a background in the misuse of medicinal products. It's serious in many ways. For patients affected, mismedication can lead to both unnecessary suffering and reduced quality of life, and in its ultimate consequence it can lead to a fatal outcome. The cost has been estimated to be up to NOK 5 billion. This was also the case when the Stortinget dealt with the notification of drug use in 2005. It is only the Stoltenberg II government that has been responsible for following up all the good measures and proposals the Stortinget pointed to in order to reduce the problems of mismedication. The question is, to what extent has the government succeeded? It is not reassuring when the State Health Authority identifies extensive errors, deficiencies and failures of procedures in relation to the handling of medicinal products. Already in 2003, we received a regulation on internal control in social and health services. This defined the responsibilities of the establishment and required the establishment of an internal control system within each establishment. The Regulation required establishments to develop, implement, control, evaluate and improve the necessary procedures in relation to their regulated activities. The regulation also states in clear terms that a system of deviations should be established to contribute to continuous improvement of the business. The manager was required to ensure adequate professional competence and to ensure that employees had good knowledge of the internal control system. So where do we stand, almost seven years after the prescription came from? In my opinion, the audit revealed that a number of establishments are not in the vicinity of the establishment of a satisfactory internal control system. We can read from the reports that there is a lack of role clarification. There is a lack of professional competence. There is a lack of evidence and a lack of anomalies management system. Business managers are not aware of their responsibilities, and the employees are not aware of who is responsible for what. In 2008, we were given a new prescription for drug treatment. This rule is much less detailed than what we've seen before, and it's commendably followed up by a guidance section. This is essential, as it covers a wide range of activities and clarifies the roles of different groups of health professionals in relation to the handling of medicinal products. I will be the first to stress the importance of anomalies. It is necessary to establish a culture in which the notification of non-conformities is regarded as positive and as part of the quality improvement work of the establishment. Unfortunately, we often hear that employees hesitate to report adverse events and breaches of procedures. They fear that this can be used against them and form the basis for criminal reactions. Therefore, it is a prerequisite that management has a professional position in the reporting of non-conformities. It is important that the deviations form the basis for a review of routines to see if there is any improvement. It is also important to provide feedback to the notifying party on the deviations and to close the deviations in this way. What is frightening, however, is that we see, to a large extent, that deviations notified by public regulators repeatedly face the same conditions. We see far too little business learning from each other, both what others do wrong, and what is done right. There is no culture between enterprises to identify a kind of ‘best practice’. In health services, we also have a comprehensive use of part-time, both voluntary and involuntary. The smallest fixed position I have seen was 3.56 pst. There was a permanent employee who had a job every six Sunday afternoon. It goes without saying that the business manager has a very challenging task of implementing an internal control system and involving all employees in such an organisation. The new regulation on medicinal products management underlines the competence required in relation to different parts of the medicinal product management. Nevertheless, we know that the failure of the local economy has led to more and more unskilled labour being employed. The Progress Party considers this to be an illustration of why framework transfers are inappropriate as an instrument if they have a quality development in mind. We will also point out that the tight economy we have had in both municipalities and health companies leads to a low basic staffing, which in turn leads to the reporting work, the development of procedures and quality development being down-prioritized in relation to meeting the patient's basic needs. With regard to the interaction reform in this context, I think we should all have an open mind in relation to what we can get in place through that treatment. One important prerequisite for success here is that we can get the widest possible deal in place. Let's not see any of the democratic overrun we experienced in yesterday's financial debate. The actions to be undertaken by the Interaction Reform shall be implemented in all Norwegian municipalities, businesses and health enterprises. Such implementation will not succeed if there is not the greatest possible consensus in this house – and then I am talking about a consensus for the patient's best.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e337	As the interpellant pointed out in its submission, the Health Authority has revealed a significant degree of deviation from the requirements for safe handling of medicinal products at 48 hospitals, which have been visited by others, and which were also well explained by the Council of State in its submission. I am pleased that the Council of State said that this is a situation that we cannot allow. It is very serious and represents a significant risk of mistreatment, with major consequences for patients. In many Norwegian hospitals, patients are exposed to both over-treatment and under-treatment, which may have serious consequences for the health and quality of life of the elderly, and in the worst cases death. As the representative of Health pointed out, a large proportion of drug-related problems can be avoided if the overall use of the individual patient is regularly and systematically reviewed and adjusted. And it's possible to do something about it, this is also a professional responsibility. However, good, safe and proper use of medicinal products requires that nurses, nurses and other nursing staff have sufficient time and expertise and that good cooperation procedures between the trade unions are in place. Nursing and other nursing staff are closest to patients every day, and their knowledge, observations and reports on the effectiveness of treatment and possible side effects are crucial in the follow-up to treatment. This is about a very vulnerable group. We know that the elderly who live in a nursing home have five to six active diagnoses and use a lot of medicine, and approx. 80 pst. is demented. The more important it is that it is followed up well. In particular, it is worrying that there is a significant excess of sleeping medicine and that supervision shows that such a large proportion of hospitals are unable to handle drug use properly. But let's also be told that many hospitals do a very good job in this area. The most important now is to strengthen quality through increased skills, multiple doctors, nurses and nurses at nursing homes. The right considers that healthcare services in the municipality need to have a greater share of healthcare resources and that provision needs to be upgraded with better equipment and more professionals. This will ensure that sick older ones can get better help where they live and that they are saved for unnecessary and stressful hospital stays. We need to recruit more nurses. The right has proposed a pool of skills for, among others: nurses in payroll schemes, which we consider to be a good starting point for recruiting more nurses to the nursing homes and to home care. Today's strategy of recruiting more unskilled workers in jobs requiring vocational training and a broad range of skills cannot continue. It affects the quality of treatment and the care of the very sickest. On the right, the medical coverage in hospitals will be strengthened by introducing a grant to ensure that doctors in hospitals serve as much as doctors in hospitals. We have to take care of several dedicated hospital doctors instead of instructing them to work a little in a nursing home for a few hours a week. Hospitalisation is required for hospital doctors in order to ensure the possibility of professional development and more knowledge of old age medicine. We need to move more on doctors and less on patients, especially the sick elderly. Hospital doctors and other health professionals must assist in the treatment of patients in hospital homes. I agree with the interpellant, who says that it is incomprehensible that the important competence of pharmacists is no longer used and involved in the treatment of sick people at home and at home. This is, of course, a competence in the community that can be used if we get good cooperation and interaction between the different disciplines. Unskilled people must be given a promise of knowledge. It will provide greater security for each care worker and not least for the sick elderly. The observations they make are vital, and therefore it is important to have sufficient knowledge and competence. We also need to focus more on research and professional development to ensure that the quality of supply is improved, while at the same time making it professionally attractive to work in the health and care sector. In the interaction reform, drug use and drug management have not been adequately addressed, despite the fact that there is sufficient knowledge that misuse of medicinal products leads to many hospitalisations, longer health cows, significant increases in the cost of reduced quality of life and lost years, and significant increases in community health costs – also due to lack of cooperation and interaction between the trade unions. At least right-wing care must be taken during the process of reforming the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e358	The whole point of medicine is to get healthy and not sick. But unfortunately, it's enough that the opposite happens many times, and I sometimes say -- maybe a little strong claim -- that I actually think there are more people who get sick from too many drugs than from too few doctors in this country. We're discussing the conditions of hospitals today, and it's perhaps one of those places where there should be the best control of drug use, because there are patients who are not able to go to more doctors and get lots of medications they shouldn't have. Nevertheless, we see that drug use there is too high. I agree that there is a need for a level of competence in all areas, not least in terms of stepping down this type of drug use, which is too high and which causes damage. I've talked to a lot of hospital doctors who know how to get on some of these drugs, who are afraid to do it too fast. It's one of the most dangerous things that can happen. I have worked very closely with a project called ‘Medicine against pills’, which was located at Hamar, but which unfortunately was dropped last year. I had an interpellation about it a year ago. I learned a lot from that project – and I “trapped” it, because I work a lot against people who are disadvantaged, dissatisfied, sick or on social assistance. And what is the characteristic of very many of the people who are this out of work? Well, many people have a drug problem, possibly in combination with a drug problem. Many have received medicines from the health care system because they have experienced a trauma, many have not been helped to come down – on the contrary, they have been prescribed regular medications for much longer than the rules. Common side effects of therapeutic doses of common medicines given against insomnia, against mild depression — to put it that way: when life is a little black and difficult — are again diagnosed as mental disorders. And then the circle is going on. I am absolutely sure – in the debate we are now having on exclusion from the labour market – that too many people who are ill for a long time and who are suffering from disability, and too many who end up in a difficult situation in life, also get a better solution if the doctors and health services take a greater responsibility not to cause their patients their injuries and new diseases by too many medicines. That is why I have an appeal to the Minister. When I had the interpellation about the project ‘Medisin against pills’, I felt that the Minister of Health had been advised at the time, of course, from his office, but that some of this drug abuse was mixed with that which is drug abuse. In very many cases, this isn't about a patient who wants to get drugs, it's about relieving the effects of a disease, diagnosis, or some kind of condition. This means that some of the knowledge you have to get on drugs is not necessarily relevant to drug abuse. It is more difficult to descend on some of these drugs than to descend on heroin, for example. It can take longer, more years, it has to be done with great knowledge and with very close follow-up. That's why I want to ask the Minister of Health to go a little bit into the knowledge of this project and follow it up – a great deal of work is being done here in our neighbouring country. This is about competence – of course with doctors working in hospitals, but it is about the competence and follow-up of all those responsible for prescribing medicines to patients. And it's about developing skills that can help those who have become drug addicts, by stepping down in a medically sound way, so that they can get out of this abuse and get better management on their everyday lives and not experience all the extra problems and side effects that they also get. As the Council of State and several others here have said, it can even be so serious that you die of it. I'm very pleased with this interpellation, which is targeting the sick home spaces and that bit. So this is a big problem that needs to be addressed in a much more systematic way than it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e374	The representative, Mr Nørve, looked at a very important theme, i.e. medical treatment in hospitals. It was shown to the Health Authority’s oversight in 2008 and 2009 at 48 hospitals, which have exposed many aberrations. Interpellant questions whether measures will be put in place to strengthen drug treatment as part of the Interpellant’s Interpellant’s Interpellant reform. After all, the interaction reform presented by the Government has as its goal the commitment of cooperation between health care levels, to the patient’s best. It also provides for a strengthening of the community health service, so that prevention and reduction of disease development are given a greater place, and that more people can be treated closer to a cage. Then a major part of the effort and growth in the health budget will be turned over to the municipal health service. In the view of the Centre Party, ensuring good medical procedures and preventing mistreatment are an important part of the preventive health work, which is now to be given priority in this reform. Increased focus on interaction should not focus on the quality and development of each service location. Unfortunately, these have been far too many examples of poor internal control for drug treatment. We have heard of unskilled people who have been given responsibility for medical distribution. We have heard about the elderly who get side effects and poorer health because of over-medication and mismedication. A report from the Health Directorate in 2006 found that medical clinics for patients with home care were largely in place in the smallest municipalities, but in the largest municipalities there were clear signs that home care was responsible for updating the doctor in the event of medical changes or after hospitalisation. This shows that metropolitan and metropolitan areas face an additional challenge when it comes to securing routines and medical treatment systems. Older patients in hospitals today often have many diagnoses, and many people use many medications every day. This sets out the requirements for professional work and shows the need for high medical competence in the primary care service. This is precisely what the Interaction Reform proposes, and that the growth in medical services should now be concentrated in the municipalities. In the opinion of the Centre Party, this, together with the growth of other health professionals in the municipalities, will provide the basis for ensuring better routines and preventing aberrations when dealing with medical care in hospitals and in open care in particular.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e387	I would like to thank the interpellant for raising this important debate here today. For me, this is also very much about the competence of the nursing homes. We know that in our nursing homes there are 40 pst. unskilled, and in some places even more. We also know that in many parts of the day many people experience lack of professional competence at all, it may be at night, and it may be in the afternoon, as most often. Some places they don't have any professionals to call if anything should happen. You don't have good enough systems everywhere. I very much agree with Andersen's representative that one of the biggest problems might be over-medication and mismedication. We can also find that in the nursing homes. Another point is that it can also be undermedication. I want to mention it, because in the elderly and in mental health, for example, we experience that many people may not have studies. Many people may be depressed and may need drugs, which are not caught. Somatic disease is also relevant. With regard to my own experience as an old nurse -- it's been many years since I was in the clinic -- I came into an institution where there was a lot of medicine. It was actually a part that went around and was quite sluggish, at which the supervisor and the others who were in charge, in a few months went through the drug use and more than halved it. I think this can be done very many places, if you go through this systematically. One theme that may not have been so much up is that the staff in our nursing homes is incredibly low – now I see that the Minister of Labour is also sitting here. Sickness in the health sector is high — it is quite common with 10 to 15 pst. in our nursing homes. It's said that the tempo is so high, you get quite tired. In addition, temporary budgets are sky high because of the high level of sick leave – inefficient operation. It's not long since I was in a nursing home where the department nurse said, I'm actually using 90 pst. of my time calling for temporary workers. So looking at the temporary budgets of the nursing homes can be tricked, and maybe take an assessment of whether you're going to increase the staffing somewhat. It might answer that question. I very much agree with the Trade Union in the debate that they have been going around sick leave, that manning is something you actually have to look at, at least in the health sector. If you have a low crew, you don't have time to either observe well enough or do the drug management itself in a better way. It's not just putting a pill away, you have to handle it well, make it right, take care of the intake and observe both side effects and that the medicine is taken in the right way. I think the smooth review and the whole thing, which the Council of State also had in mind, is incredibly important. In terms of competence and composition, we need to have more doctors in our nursing homes. It's working on it, and everyone agrees. But my concern is also that we need to have more fixed medical positions. We need someone who knows the patients over time, someone you can call -- the same doctor, who knows the patient. We don't have that in our nursing homes today, at least not all. Of course, there are good exceptions. Even in Bergen, where I and the Council of State come from, we have an amazing nursing home with just fixed medical positions. We read yesterday in the papers that our hospitals lacked an incredible amount of procedures. I think it does when it comes to medication management in the hospital as well. I hope we do not have to wait for more supervision until something is done about this. Finally, I would like to mention pharmacists, who were in the interpellant. I think that was part of what the interpellant actually strongly wanted to raise a debate on, and I agree with that. Well, here we can do something fast. They're in every pharmacy, and they want to contribute. It's great with the new education that's started. In fact, instead of waiting for the next supervision, you can immediately put your skills into practice and create a system for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e409	This is an important interpellation, and it is an important topic that is on the agenda. My little post is not instead, but a supplement to all the important points of challenges that lie in improving supply and ensuring the quality of drugs for patients in hospital homes. I am a little surprised that none of those who have so far spoken have mentioned private operators and electronic solutions. Now I, as director of a hospital in Eastfold, had a pharmacist in the early 1990s who was responsible for the hospital's business, but she also supervised nine hospitals in the inner Eastfold. She came back and said that there was obviously a need for quality assurance to avoid mismedication. In the same year, in the early 1990s, she took management training, which resulted in her setting up a company called Farmaka, which was later bought up by the Holtung Group, and which today has over 50 employees, who do one, easy to accept orders from hospitals – from Lindesnes in the south to North Cape in the north – and to patients in some stable hospitals – many of them are over time. They are ordered once or twice a week and have consignments of the type of drug mix to be used by patients. Of course, there is no need to cooperate — with pharmacists in pharmacies, pharmacists in hospitals and nurses. And we need to get more fixed nurses and doctors who are present in a nursing home. But it is possible to create electronic solutions, orders, which are shipped quickly and thus ensure that you get the right drug composition for the completely individual patient. Having this type of shipment several times a week, completely minimizing – zeros out – what is mismedical treatment for these patients. My ring post is not about instead, but also about it. We need to complement current private solutions, which are now used by hospitals and a number of municipalities in our country. The 50 employees of this company are essentially pharmacists, plus nurses and technicians. They have close cooperation with a lot of municipalities, and in that way they are also an important supplement. I ask both the State Council and the State Health Authority, who have had this round of supervision in hospitals, to note that there are additional solutions, and that not only the important challenges of competence and staffing are highlighted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e422	First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State and not least all the other debaters who have contributed to a good and constructive debate, which shows a unanimous willingness to correct a very unworthy situation for the elderly in particular here in Norway. I look forward to the intention of St.meld. No 18 for 2004–2005, The right course to correct drug use is being launched. It's important, and it's high time, I think, that something's happening. Right can promise to be a good co-player and pusher to succeed in getting more doctors and nurses into the hospitals, who can and will interact with the important professional competence that we know that the pharmacists at all the country's pharmacies possess. On that occasion, I can only refer you to Mr. Sonja Sjölis's contribution, where she was very clear on the Right's policy in the area of empowerment and interaction in the field of care and care. I also agree with the reminder from the representative Karin Andersen of SV that this is much more important than older people in a nursing home. I am so very much in agreement. Drug addicts and drug addicts need more attention and follow-up than we experience today. It could have been a separate interpellation, a separate matter about it, so I'm not going to get into it any more, but I'm going to stick to what was said here, and I'm going to count on, and I hope, too, that the Council of State will take it further, because here we also have big challenges. The representative, Davøy, took up the staffing situation in a nursing home, which we fully agree is too bad. An important factor in that context, which I want to point out before I finish, and which I sincerely hope the Council of State can take along, are the major challenges that we have in the Norwegian health care system and not least in the municipalities with regard to the very small job homes. I think – yes, not only believe, but I am absolutely sure – that it would have had an incredible amount to say if we had managed to do something about it too.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e433	I'll thank you once again for bringing up a very important topic, and thank you all for an incredibly good debate, I would say. There's a lot of consensus about the challenges that are. I think we can all agree that having the right skills is one of the most important things. The representative, Sjøli, said that the Right was committed to strengthening the health and care services in the municipalities and their responsibilities. It's also the government. That is also what lies in the intentions of the cooperation reform, which is important, and which I look forward to the Stortinget working on. Competence is the most important success factor. Here I would like to stress that, in the area of pharmaceutical management, it is the responsibility of the head of institution to do so properly and on the basis of competence. The representative from the Progress Party said it was not reassuring that there was any deviation. I fully agree that it is serious when so many deviations are revealed. But at the same time, I want to say that what's important is that we can deal with these deviations and do something with all the conditions that are revealed, so that we can get a much better situation and not only avoid unnecessary suffering, but also really huge costs for society. As many people have pointed out, this is something that also goes on the health budget, because there will be a lot of unnecessary treatment due to mismedication. The representative, Karin Andersen, has received many comments. I just want to say that I very much agree with what she said, that the problem in this country maybe is that we get sicker by too much medicine than by too little medicine. The representative of Davøy also had an important point to make in this regard. When it is revealed that the hospitals are bad at this, I fully agree that they should actually be the best – there you should have better control over giving drugs than you have in the case of the elderly who live at home. Finally, Mr. Schou. I fully agree that the use of technical solutions is important, both in terms of the exchange of information on what individual doctors do for a patient, and of course also in terms of pharmacies. You can do this more automatically, and you can use the competence of your pharmacists. It's absolutely crucial here. Again, thank you for a good debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e450	Case No. So 4 is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e466	There were high expectations and broad consensus on the Nav reform when it was adopted in 2005. Across all parties, it was emphasised that this organisational reform was a central measure to achieve the objective of more active and fewer passive social benefits without any follow-up. Casting problems and locking effects were to be addressed by closing the doors between social security offices, employment offices and social services, and appropriate and individual measures were to be taken as soon as possible. As you know, before the reform was adopted, there was a discussion about having one or two state institutions. The large majority finally ended up going for one state establishment and one hub where the state establishment and municipal social services had melted together. It was not least the individual user who made that choice. He or she was to meet an overall public employment service in one place, and it was to be present with all public instruments in each and every municipality. The importance of Nav’s many users was also the background for the broad political majority to stress the need for a strong, competent and effective first-line service in the new Nav organisation. It is not difficult to find reasonable arguments for such a strong emphasis on the place and importance of the first line service. The whole purpose of Nav is to be an organization that gives people who need it different assistance. Assistance to return to work — return to work — is the most important. At that time, the meeting place between the user and the office — the first line service — must be both the head and the heart of the return work. As we know, man is not a mass-produced unit. Every human being is unique. Each person who meets Nav is different – with his/her background and his/her own assumptions – in meeting the labour market. Therefore, it is not possible to replace the people in Nav's first line service with network access to Nav's legislation or automatic telephone answering machines. The first line service is required – competence, experience and wisdom requirements. And demands are made that employees actually have the opportunity to use both their judgement and their knowledge and to make decisions on quick, individually arranged measures. Therefore, we should expect heavy efforts to be made in the first line service of the new Nav organisation. The final destiny of the Nav reform – success or just bureaucratic governance – is determined in the first line service, in the user-organisation meeting. Let me say that with such a broad area of responsibility as Nav has, of course, it would be quite utopian to believe that all user contacts in the first-line service can have peak competence throughout Nav's area. The generalist model in its most pure-bred form has not been an option. However, the first line service shall have easy and quick access to the necessary competencies. And to the extent possible, it should be represented in the individual local Nav office. It was also the Social Committee's concern in 2005 when, unanimously, it stated: ‘The Committee will point in particular to the need to develop a broad and complex competence in the common first line.’ And on the other hand, something I've quoted in the interpellation: ‘In addition to good availability, the Committee will place great emphasis on the need for the first line to have a level of competence and decision-making responsibilities that make these offices a place where people really feel the guidance and assistance they need, as far as possible without having to refer to other offices, bodies and ‘doors’. The common first line must comply with clear requirements for rapid clearance, removal of grey zones and throwing-ball trends and the rapid commencement of action.’;» There is no doubt that there have been turbulent times in Nav's organisation while the implementation of the Nav reform has been ongoing. In particular, it has been made visible recently. We have to understand that there has been almost an extreme pressure on Nav at this time. The organisation has been responsible for implementing a comprehensive, non-discriminatory organisational reform in the public sector, for preparing and implementing major regulatory changes, for preparing the largest reconversion of the pension system since the establishment of the social security system — and in the middle of it, for a period when the financial crisis almost overnight dramatically increased demand for Nav's services. Clearly, this would lead to – and have led to – problems. Expecting Nav's organization to be dimensioned to deal with the impact of the financial crisis almost by pinching its fingers would be to expect the impossible. Using the whole of last year's history as an unconditional proof that the Nav reform has failed, or that the directorate, department and council have not done the job properly, would therefore, in my opinion, be fundamentally wrong. Nevertheless, I would like a debate on the whole development of Nav's organisational model in the period following the Storting decision in 2005, whether it really fully conforms to the intention of the decision on a strong first-line service. It has therefore been interesting to read the evaluations of the Nav reform, and the so-called mid-term evaluation, carried out by the Rokkan Centre, published in the Journal of Welfare Research No. 3/2009, and presented at the mid-term conference here in Oslo a month ago. I'm particularly concerned with the construction that has happened to the large county administrative units in Nav, and the relationship between these and the first line service around the country. In this evaluation, the researchers Tone Alm Andreassen and Knut Fossetøl from the Institute of Labour Research wrote: ‘While it was suggested that the separation of tasks to own administrative units should be simplified and that resources should be moved from income protection to follow-up, the reality seems to be the opposite. It has prevented the production of services, the creation of residues and the reduction of follow-up work, and in some cases has created an almost coffee-cassian bureaucracy where neither the case manager, the contact person nor the administration knows where the case is.» There are a limited number of offices that are interviewed on the occasion of the case. Of course, it would be wrong to assume without further delay that the offices that are interviewing manage the truth with a large S on the implementation of the reform. However, there is an interesting opinion when, according to the same researchers, at one of these offices, it is said that the establishment of an administrative unit has lost them for social security competence, so that they are left with less qualified case handlers, who make mistakes and contribute to delays. Furthermore, they describe difficulties in contacting the employees of the administrative units and issues that ‘be gone’. In another office, the administrative units are described as a young person, who headhunted the best of social security skills, by offering them a higher salary. These researchers are asking whether we have, in practice, ended up with two state agencies, although the broad majority clearly stated that there should be only one establishment. Questions are asked whether the first line service has been tapped for competences transferred to the administrative units, while the majority of the sizes, as is well known, underlined the need for the build-up of skills in the first line service. I am quite sure that the bulk of the population did not mean that the first line of competence was to be tapped, and then to start building skills from the bottom up. I'll be careful to advance the answer to these questions. But those who have asked questions – staff in Nav offices who experience the pressure on the organisation and the expectations of users every day – are worth listening to. And the questions they ask are worth discussing. Therefore, I ask the Council of State this question: Is Storting's intention of a strong, competent and decisive first-line service fully respected in her opinion? Has the structure of competence in the first line been implemented as requested by Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e509	The Nav reform is both an organisational reform and involves the introduction of new content. The organisational organisation has been largely implemented. They are now in the process of implementing major changes in work processes and instruments. The qualification programme, new legislation on measures and new rules on the follow-up of sick people are already in place. Next year, redundancy benefits and the right to work evaluations are introduced, and in 2011 a new age pension will be introduced. In other words, there is still a lot of work to be done before these major reforms are achieved. It's per. Today, 444 Nav offices are established, and by the turn of the year, ten offices will remain to be established. In addition, the State of Labour and Welfare has established administrative units in all counties and five regional pension units. A major restructuring of former social security funds and Aetat has been carried out. In many Nav offices there is today a more comprehensive follow-up of users than in the past, for example. because the instruments of the municipality and the state are seen in the context. On 1 February 2010, as mentioned above, the follow-up to users’ and users’ rights will be further strengthened by the right of users to work assessment. The aim of both the organisational and content conversions is to strengthen the work of the Nav agencies to increase their work and activity. The leadership of the implementation of the Nav reform was provided through the treatment of St.prp by Stortinget. No 46 for 2004–2005 and Ot. pp. No 47 in 2005-2006. In the annual budget proposals, the Government has briefed the Stortinget on the implementation of the reform. In addition, in March this year the Government gave through St. Prp. No 51 for 2008-2009 a more comprehensive report on the implementation of the reform and the challenges it faces. The Interpellant refers to the opinion of the then Social Committee on the first line service in its position as St.prp. No 46 for 2004-2005, and questions whether ‘the implementation of a strong, authoritative and competent first-line service is fully ensured in the implementation of the Nav reform’. Before I say anything about how this implementation has been followed up, I would like to remind you that the government of Bondevik II in the staging proposition chose to define the concept of the first line service to cover more than services in the front or in a reception. The background to defining the first-line service as something more than the Nav office itself was that small offices would not be able to cover the full width of the first-line tasks of the state agency. However, the Nav office should be the user's physical local contact point. The size proposition also pointed to the fact that the considerations of efficient use of resources and sufficient competence and quality of proceedings indicate that a number of functions, which do not require user proximity, are performed through regional specialisation or task sharing, or are handled by nationwide entities. However, it has always been clear that the Nav office should be the engine of the reform. In order to facilitate the guidance and follow-up of the Nav offices for work and activity, other tasks have been transferred. Tasks related to health refunds and to the settlement of patient transport are transferred to the Health Directorate and health businesses respectively. However, the most significant change for local agencies has been the creation of administrative units and special retirement units. Administrative units are established both to enable the Nav Office to focus on providing guidance and follow-up to users and to improve the effectiveness of the procedure, to be of higher quality and to increase the level of non-discrimination. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare has developed principles for sharing responsibilities and tasks between the Nav Office and the Administrative Unit for all benefits. That means that: non-activity benefits, including: child contributions, parental benefits, cash support and basic and auxiliary benefits are treated by the administrative units, even if the Nav Office is the contact point of the users for these benefits as well. activities-required benefits, including: the Nav Office shall assess the user’s working and function, including medical conditions, while the administrative unit shall assess other performance conditions. The administrative unit takes decisions, issues letters of decision to the user and makes any calculations and payments. The Nav Office is responsible for the follow-up of user activity according to the follow-up plan. This division of responsibilities and tasks requires different competences in the Nav Office and in the administrative unit. In the Nav office it is among other things. the need for guidance and follow-up skills and competences, including: the labour market. In the administrative unit, it is important to have good case handler competence and detailed knowledge of the legislation. However, the division of labour between the Nav Office and administrative units has not worked satisfactorily during the start-up phase. Among other things, there are examples of duplication of work in which the administrative unit reviews the evaluations of the Nav Office. The Directorate has therefore decided that the Nav Office should take decisions relating to performance assessments when they are introduced. This will prevent the administrative unit from reviewing the evaluations and decisions of the Nav Agency. The introduction of work performance assessments will lead to increased attention being paid to the follow-up of users by the Nav Office. As I recently explained in the Questionnaire, extensive training is being carried out. The Directorate’s assessment is that it would not have been practicable to carry out such content reform in a good way without the organisational changes that have been implemented. However, I would remind you that no matter how well planned for the introduction of new schemes, transitional problems may arise. There is also a risk when we are going to introduce redundancy payments. For example, some users now need to provide notification cards in order to obtain their benefit. However, the establishment has a long experience with the use of a notification card for the recipients of daily allowances and back-up benefits. However, any transitional problems are not of such a nature that this important part of the reform should be further deferred. I have also assured myself that in the start-up phase, the directorate will focus on ensuring that everyone gets the benefits they are entitled to. I am pleased that there is an ongoing debate on the ongoing Nav reform and on the development of labour and welfare management. It provides opportunities to discuss the choices made and whether it is right to adjust the course. The Directorate of Labour and Welfare shall, in the selection of organisation, balance cross-cutting interests such as efficiency and user proximity. By centralising the performance of tasks for non-user tasks, a basis for greater efficiency has been provided while the Nav Office can strengthen the follow-up of users. It is important to establish authoritative Nav offices that have the right competence to follow up users, in line with the preconditions for the reform. There is therefore a need for good follow-up skills in the Nav offices, while detailed legislative competence lies within the administrative unit. It has been difficult to implement the changes and it takes time to introduce new and better work processes and instruments. Many users have been receiving lower services for a period of time, which is critical for them. Now the organisational framework is in place. It will facilitate the work situation of the 17 000 employees of the Labour and Welfare Administration, who have made a great effort during the reform period. It will provide better opportunities for employees to turn their attention to those for whom the reform is for, namely users.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e560	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. In particular, I would like to thank the Council of State for making it clear that they must not end up with the responsibility for a reform that is difficult to implement. The problem is not that they are added to, but the problem is the system in which they work. Then I am pleased that the Council of State clearly points out that it is important to build strong, competent Nav offices that have enough competence to meet the users. One can say that the office will work better when it sees itself, when they get some time, but we cannot wait and say that this is the answer. One must be willing to look at the relationship between the Nav office and the administration and be willing to make any adjustments. The starting point for the reform was that the Nav offices should be at the heart of the reform. The Nav offices may need more people, and they may need even more time and opportunity to build up skills. One might also have to ask himself if there has been enough time and resources to build up the skills they have for them, while at the same time performing the daily operations and taking care of the users in a good way. It'll be a little bit like switching an engine on a car that floats, and one knows that it can be difficult. I'm glad that the Council of State has been involved in this both today and before, because I think it's one of the keys. So it's important for me to point out that the Nav offices are going to have all the services, not just when it's about work and activity, even if this is important. If old-age pension, child contribution, cash support, pension, auxiliary assistance osb. We're moving out, I think we're getting closer to a two-way solution even more than we do today. And many wanted it when the reform was discussed before the Stortinget made its decision, cf. e.g. The Rattsø Selection. I just want to underline that I don't want that solution. Although the Council of State clearly points out that we are going to have a one-off solution, I will still ask the Council of State whether it will do anything to prevent us from even approaching a direction where a two-way solution is approaching.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e576	Today we have a division of labour, and I believe that the division of labour can be defended on the basis of the fact that there are very many legislation to be managed. There are between 40 and 50 different systems of relatively complex legislation. If this is the case that the individual decision is taken by someone who is not in the office where you submit your application, I believe it is appropriate when there are regulatory benefits and where there is a need for extensive competence to make the right decisions. But then I'm very concerned about those who need follow-up, organisation, which needs to be done around, it's important that the Nav offices have the right skills. For this reason, it has also been decided in the directorate that the Nav offices should have decision-making competence on what may be the most important reform to get users back into action, namely the redefinition of work. Then I'm also glad that the interpellant expresses understanding of the demanding situation Nav has been in. I think that no matter how well we had planned, none of us had planned for us to have the financial crisis that has been. There has been a demanding situation in Nav, where there have been large residues, too much remains, and then it is important that we have had the opportunity to conduct effective and good practice. We have been able to do this because we have been able to gather some skills related to individual performances in administrative units. Then it is important that we continue to work to provide the employees with the necessary skills. Now more than 150 new Nav offices are established in 2009, and it is clear that it will take time for sufficient skills to be in place, especially in the smallest Nav offices, where there may be between three and four employees. In order to have the skills you need to keep track of a complicated regulatory system with so many arrangements, I think we need to recognise that we need support functions that are physically located elsewhere than in the office you are. It is important that we constantly insist that the contact point of the individual should be the Nav office, and that the order of applications, knowing where one thing is, should be able to float properly, so that the employee does not have to deal with other things. A total of 60,000 days of expertise related to the establishment of local Nav offices has been completed, and several will come as the last offices come into place. To the extent that I do not agree with what the interpellant said in his second post, it must be that we should not replace actions with electronic solutions. I think it's very good that you can order your social security card on the Internet if you have access to it, and I don't think the interpellant thought it was okay. But it should also be possible for those who do not have access to the Internet to go to the local Nav office and order their social security card there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e589	First of all, I would like to take the opportunity to thank Kjell Ingolf Ropstad for addressing this debate – it is very important. It's important to focus on what we're going to do in the future, so that we don't use all our energy and all our energy to discuss what hasn't worked in the last year. One of the things that's been important in this round of establishing Nav was getting the agencies, tasks and assessments closer to the user. If we go back in time, we had regional functions for most areas throughout the country, both in terms of the labour market and the social security system. Now it has been possible to move skills and meeting points into all the municipalities in the country, and it has been a great advantage for very many users. It has actually created a door in, even if you don't get all the answers to all the questions in the first meeting with Nav. But Nav has the competence to pick it up, and you can still relate to that same door when you get back and get the answer to the question you asked last time. So there's something about focusing on what it's created, even though everything isn't in place yet. I also want to put a little emphasis on increasing availability, because it is actually a great advantage to be able to take away very many of the small tasks, the small questions, via the Internet and the telephone services that have been created. It has released some more time for those who need more complex problem solutions. Then I think it's important that we focus on the small problems, the fast problems, being solved as quickly and as quickly as possible, and preferably by ourselves when we can. I also believe that the collection of administrative units gives greater certainty that we have equal treatment of the tasks across the country. It was also one of the things that was raised back in time some criticism, that the same issues were solved in different ways depending on the region they belonged to. It's a point that all of the problems have to be solved in the same way to all of the inhabitants of our country. Then I have great faith that the agencies that are now merged into Nav actually have so much competence that they run a continuous building of competence in the department by actually working together and in parallel with the matter. In other words, they have point skills on who is in the system and who can help solve matters. But perhaps the challenges of Nav, of the old social security system and the old labour market offices are actually about people's meetings, and it's about attitudes and how we see each other. It's one of the things we're going to contribute to that we're being allowed to bring out and have as part of the build-up of skills, because most people who use these offices have simple, easy issues. They get their case solved and go home again without it being demanding neither mentally nor physically to get it to. But for some of those who have big, complicated and complex needs, this has initially been a human challenge – long before one comes to the Nav office. That's who we're going to take care of, because that's what was the starting point when we decided to merge the floors, that those who have complex needs are going to have a stronger room around them. I still have a lot of faith that the way to organise it is actually the right way to solve it. There's one door, and there's a competence environment around you when the problems are challenging and big. I look forward to continuing this debate. As I said, I very much appreciate the way Ropstad has chosen to start the debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e606	Like the previous speaker, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising a major and important debate. I think it's a debate we're going to have many times in this room also in the future. I think it's both right and wise – to say it in a good trance – to look back, both to gain experience from the past and to be able to create the future. We all remember what was the intention of Nav. There was one door, at which the interpellant was inside, to get help. There should be a great content reform, not least to help those who have complex needs, to get better services, but of course also to help people from passivity to activity, which has been the great wish of the opposition, and which I know has also been the great goal of the Government. So you can ask, have you reached these targets after we started this in 2006, when the launch gun was lifted and pulled off? I think we all agree that we haven't come to what we wanted. But I think we all agree on one more thing, which is a good starting point for the debate further, and that is that we all want to make Nav work. We want Nav to be a success for the users, but also for those who work there. Then we politicians in many ways, along with the employees, are responsible for creating a system that makes it possible to implement the reform, but also to give Nav the resources and not least the tools needed to carry out the reform to the best of our ability. I'm skeptical of the administrative units. I am on the basis of what I have registered, namely that the competence of the first line service has gradually been weakened and transferred to administration. When we talk to employees in the administrative units, they say exactly the same thing. When we talk to many of the employees out in the local offices, they say exactly the same thing. It's a paradox when, as politicians, we haven't managed to create a system that works. I think it's the government that's responsible for that. Although we look back in time, and we have not received any new reports that show that the situation is different, the internal report last winter from Ernst & Young shows that in Oslo, 3.4 working days were spent looking for missing mail. The question is, have you fixed this, so that the systems work? In St. prp. No 51 for 2008–2009, which was discussed in spring, was one of the important issues in which, among other things: how to close the gap in competence. I could have imagined that the Council of State had reported more thoroughly back on what has been done specifically to close the gap in competence, how the proposition has been followed up in practice, and one could also provide a detailed status description in the annual government budgets and in the revised budget on how this is followed up, on how to look at it. Because it also gives Stortinget the security that you have the opportunity to keep track of the fact that it is going in the right direction, or whether you need to take new steps to get on the right track again. I think we should be positive that we get access to some of these services electronically. But we've got an electronic system that makes it so complicated. Has there been a simplification? For the system is so complicated that it's hard to use too many. I have tried to test it myself in connection with changing the fixation. It was almost impossible. I had neither PIN codes nor the tables that I had to fill in. Then I think like that: what if I had been Olga in 75 years, which maybe isn't the most driven on a PC? So you could say, well, then it's just going down to the local Nav office, you get help. I've also tested it out. I was with a 75-year-old lady. Then she was told to do it on the Internet. But I don't have the Internet, she said. Then it helps incredibly little. Here we have a challenge to get to a system that takes care of both those who can use the data world completely, and those who are unable to use it. We rely on everyone to feel comfortable with the system in Nav and get help from Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e621	This interpellation is important and necessary, and I just remind you that the background to the Nav reform was that we were going to make sure that users of the services got the right performance. The second was that people should have help getting into work and in activity to a greater extent than they are today. The interpellant questions whether there is a need for change, and I am pleased that the Council of State points out that it is necessary to have a large and good coordination between county special units and the local first-line services. In many ways, Nav is a genuine reform, while the hospital reform itself had a shift of responsibilities from one level of government to another, namely from county to state. In a so-called administrative reform, Nav is what I would call a real reform. It is about reorganization, new structure, the merging of cultures, working in a different way, new content, interaction between employees and, not least, arrangements in a completely different way from what they are today. It was the Right that initiated the reform in the Bondevik II government — at the time called SATS, Coordination of Aetat, Social Security and Social Services. The background was that very many of us who are elected people experienced in our local settings that we first went past the social security office, then the employment office and then the social work office. You didn't have the high degree of interaction, and patients, clients, and users were caste balls. In addition, the same story was told in many places. The need for and the desire for one door, one place, a single place where people could avoid this and get coordinated benefits, was one of the most important reasons for initiating the reform at the time. In addition, we saw that there was an ever-increasing number of people who were not at work but who wanted to be at work, and therefore also of the benefits – 444 Nav offices and 10 in the new year, who have demanding tasks. I particularly want to make visible to the Council of State something that the Council of State is certainly aware of. I have been at many openings of Nav offices – probably because I was involved in the reform – that all stress that being the head of the Nav offices today is demanding, because you have to deal with two lines: the political and administrative management of that municipality and all the municipalities that the Nav office is dealing with. In addition, both administrative and political aspects of the State system must be taken into account. So the question is whether there is a need for change. I think maybe the Right will be those who specifically want results – results in relation to what was behind the reform: that the schemes should be better and more transparent, that they should be right, that there was a need for more people to come into work, and that we should reduce the expenditure within the social security system, in particular. In many ways, you can divide the Nav system into two. These are the so-called calculation benefits, which were well-qualified in social security offices, and which are also qualified in Nav today, of course, and which are about providing the right benefits in the area of pensions, child welfare, etc. The second part deals with the more assessed performances, such as giving disability benefits, temporary disability benefits, sickness benefits, etc. I think the biggest challenge is in the last area, but there's still a lot left on providing the right performance, learning from Sweden and could say to people who are working today approaching retirement leave, that if you stay one more year, you'll get this and that paid in retirement. Sweden has introduced this. I myself was present in Sweden and saw how it worked with regard to getting an annual yellow envelope where it said what benefits you had earned as a worker with pension rights. From the right we're going to be concerned with the results, that's to help people in work, full-time or part-time, and to get more active. We are concerned with the organisation, competence and management challenges in Nav, but above all we can manage to reduce the number of all those who feel excluded and who want to be involved and who just require interaction with Nav with many other agencies – employers, doctors, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e643	This is an important interpellation, because it is the local Nav offices that are the Nav reform. That's why it was incited, the starting point was there. The individual shall have his/her case resolved there, whether in terms of income security, pensions, resettlement, measures, social follow-up. So it's a wide portfolio of tasks. It's not of interest to the individual user how the agencies have organized themselves behind it. It really shouldn't be necessary for the individual user to know anything about or relate to at all. I think the Nav reform will be measured by whether the user's meeting with the department shows that it's an establishment that plays towards the same goal. At first I ran around with a little drawing where Andy Capp says that the joke is that everyone with the same theme is going to play towards the same goal. To put it this way: it is the meeting where the user has to experience that he does not have to call different places, or that there are great delays, etc., that will determine whether changes are needed or not. I am very pleased that the signals are that the interface between local office and administration is not set once and for all. We've already made some changes to it, because we've seen it's been too tight. There are different cultures to merge, and not just in the local Nav office. After all, the mid-term evaluation report from the Rokkansenteret points out, as they suggest, that there was one philosophy – to put it that way – that was adopted in the Stortinget, and a slightly different philosophy that at least got a strong hand on the steering wheel in implementing the reform. I think – to say it like that – that all this is only going to be killed if it works. When it works, I think the questions about whether this kind of organisational debate doesn't get important, but if it doesn't work, of course this will be important. When Stortinget dealt with the Nav Act, we emphasised very carefully that the agency was not to be an extended employment office, but was also to ensure specific social follow-up of not only the users of the old social offices, but also to have that approach to several users of the agency who would otherwise have a holistic follow-up. Several have talked about the follow-up of users by the Nav offices in connection with redundancy payments. Then the whole thing is very important that you don't push anyone away. I would like to remind you that when we dealt with the paper on work, well-being and inclusion, a unanimous committee pointed out that there was a need to look at maybe one budget, for example. Nav, should have a greater responsibility for triggering services in other areas too, so that it actually became a whole chain for people. The half-way report also says something about this that concerns me a little. There they suggest that in some places it may seem as if Nav is developing to become a clean order in a way, and as they write: ‘New border tasks are also found in the relationship with healthcare, for example that municipal psychiatry services take on the follow-up role of social services in the past, when the relative follow-up practices become so weak at the NAV offices that heavy psychiatric and drug users no longer experience the help they are accustomed to from social services.’ I am in order for them to cooperate, and I do not believe that the municipal psychiatric services should discharge their responsibilities in this area, but it is important that Nav does not do so either. It is very important that the social needs are not shifted away, but become an integral part of what the Nav offices should naturally do. I am very pleased with the positive numbers that are now coming, that things are developing better in relation to the Nav reform. Like others, I see that this is a bigger reform than what you've ever implemented. In the evaluation they said that all major reforms are going wrong and the bigger they are, the worse they are, but it is. I hope it does, too. It is also a unique situation for those who are going to implement this reform, that all parties are behind it, which makes it possible to be safer in the implementation of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e667	I think it's important that we take the form of interpellation when we discuss this, because it gives a different peace of mind to the debate than else. Ivar Aasen once said, "They believe it will go so fast until something big. But as soon as anything great is night, there came a blow." The Nav reform has probably been a bit influenced by it. It is a difficult reform in which something small has quickly come that has overturned much of the great. This is a difficult system. It's a very complex system of rules. The fact that citizens meet a system that is complex, difficult and messy makes it very difficult for those who are actually going to make use of it. What worries us in the left is that we now see that it's the ones with complex problems, those that are not able to sort out as well for themselves, that first of all meet the wall when they meet the system. It feels like we from this pulpit are occupied with the millimeter injustices, while the system itself creates meter injustices. It's those who are able to figure out for themselves, who are able to find out online, together with Robert Eriksson, or who are able to figure out the systems that become the winners. I think it's important for the Council of State to focus on the first line service. That's where the most competent people are supposed to be. As in many other of our public offerings, it is most important that the best are where they meet people. We in the Left think it's scary to see that many of those who work in Nav, in the evaluation, say that social work feels down-priority. It has frightening effects, because it means that this is becoming more and more a system in which the one who is able to hit the table and say that 'I shall have this' gets it, while the one who is not so good at cleaning up his life is the one who doesn't get it. This is the security network that will come when something really goes wrong. Waiting 16 months for the safety net to work can cause people to end their lives with much worse results. We see that on the enquiries we receive, the e-mails on five pages that are written to us at 5 p.m. 04:30, all the stories that come because people really feel like they're stuck in the system. It is about those who feel that the world is really raging together. When you want to find this safety net that we're so proud to have here in Norway, it's not there, or they're asking you to wait 16 months. For us who have worked a lot on debt issues, it's those who have ended up in deep debt and debt problems, those who bring these plastic bags with unopened window envelopes, this is often about -- those who thought they had a welfare state to save them, those who have heard that you're right about it, and you're right about it, but when something really breaks you, you're not able to find out in the system, and then your system becomes an enemy. My challenge to the Council of State is that this is as much a cultural challenge as an organisational one. My dream is to have a Nav office where a citizen who enters the door feels that he is the boss – this is my office, this is my welfare state, these are my rights, and I'm going to be treated then. If we're going to be able to put ‘I'm the boss’ on the chest of all the citizens of Norway as far as the arrangements of the community are concerned, the Council of State may be able to remove some and accept a few millimeters of unfairness in order for us to be able to eliminate all the metering injustices.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e694	I want to tell you a little story. In Svelvik, a guy named Erik Pettersen lives. A few years ago, this 45-year-old was exposed to a serious accident. He went ill one year. Then he went one year on rehab, and it carried right into the disability. He's not the only one who's been following that race. But Erik Pettersen did not accept his destiny. He refused to become what he called compulsively unappropriated. On the contrary, he thought – and rightly so – that he had the ability to work and not least the desire to work. He just couldn't do exactly what he had done before. He needed adapted work and/or further training. In other words, Erik Pettersen needed exactly what the Working and Welfare Department is going to help with. But the problem was – and now I'm actually talking in the past – that Nav in Svelvik, for various reasons, was not able to cough up an appropriate offer to Erik Pettersen, because Nav in Svelvik, like Nav in many other places in the country, has had more than enough to organize themselves, not to say that applications for unemployment benefit are being treated in a reasonable time, so that unemployed people get the benefits they require, at the right time, so that they do not go the heavy road to the social office to apply for the means of living. But Erik Pettersen is not of those who have given up – and the situation in Nav has become so much better in time. Today, Erik Pettersen is a happy and happy worker at Svelvik Products, where he has been given work tasks adapted to his working capacity. Erik Pettersen's story is not unique, perhaps except that he never accepted his destiny as a 45-year-old. But at the same time, history is an illustration of Nav's development. The Nav reform is and has been demanding, as many have said. It really shouldn't surprise anyone, because Nav is really the biggest transformation and reorganization of state activities that we've had in recent times. Two state agencies and one local authority are now to merge, three different cultures are to be united, employees are to be given new tasks, and new knowledge and skills must be built. And in the middle of the phase of this demanding reform, the financial crisis struck us, with a strong increase in unemployment. Now, of course, Nav has a bit to go before we can say that the purpose of the reform is fulfilled. Still, users do not receive the services they need, but there are more and more who get it — or fewer and fewer who do not. And more and more people actually express satisfaction with the offers and the service they receive at the local Nav offices. And then I want to say, we really don't have a choice because Nav is the tool that we've created to implement the working line in society, to contribute to a working life that is capable of exploiting the working capacity that exists in the population – nothing less. That's why we just have to succeed with Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e709	Thank you very much to Kjell Ingolf Rope for raising an important discussion about Nav and Nav services, especially what goes on in the first line service. It is the service with which users have the most contact, and it is very important that we have a good meeting, that users get good help and feel that Nav is there for them and works with them. The representative Gullvåg spoke about the line of work. If there's one thing I'm sure of, it's that we don't succeed in the workline without succeeding in the Nav reform. First of all, I want to say what I mean by the line of work: the line of work means that work is always the first choice. In it there is also a shade – work is not necessarily the only choice, but it must always be the first choice. If that's something we politicians and so far also others, are always most touched by, I think it must be the strong stories that people give us about the meeting with either Nav or another part of our administration. Even I've enjoyed it a lot, because you can learn a lot from meeting people who meet the helper and who tell their story. It's not necessarily that history is always representative, but it's always something you can learn from it. Up through the years I've been running national politics, I've had a lot of strong meetings. I've met employees who say they're doing better. They've got new tools that make them actually get a better working environment, because you get more employment. There are many local Nav offices and many other parts of the Nav service. I have met people who have received offers through Raskers back – a whole new system that has come into place. They get better follow-up, and new tools have been developed to enable sick workers to return to work earlier, which in turn helps us to succeed in getting jobs instead of passive benefits. I have met users who have received offers through the Qualification Program – which still makes me freeze my back when I think about it – young ladies, with children, who may not have paid a single bill in three and a half years. They have said that through the Qualification Program, they are now able to manage their own economy, and they are able to pay their own bills. There are strong meetings. I have met people who have been offered a temporary wage subsidy. Then they can be either at the workplace they were at before, or at another job, which leads to maintaining a social community. They are paid in the usual way, and not least retain the employer's valuable skills in the business. Many more will be given new opportunities through work performance assessment and redundancy payments, which will be put in place from 1 March next year. This will be given as a right, and insofar as an obligation, to Nav users with health problems. In all such discussions, it is very important to remember that everything was not better before – it is important when talking about the future of Nav all the time. We've made it easy to forget – and the short-term memory is what disappears first. I also think it is important to remember what it was like when the users had to go to three different places, and too often they were sent from the office to the office. That didn't always happen, because there were people who took responsibility for following the user further that time as well. But it is very important to bear in mind that in terms of ICT and investment in this regard, and to the extent that also physical organisation, things were definitely not better before. We tend to talk about Olga in 75 years when we talk about the need to provide assistance and support for ICT. I agree that many still need help, but we must remember that Norway is the nation in the world where people are most often on the Internet, and where you actually master ICT in a very good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e730	Thank you for the response of the Council of State – I will say that again – and for the many good contributions that have been made in the debate. There are many of those I could sign myself. I want to look forward, and I have the intention of reforming my mind. That's why I want to raise the debate from the note to the challenge that some of those who have had a different view of the etching model may have had a little bit on their hands. That seems to me to be an important debate to take. I think we have had a good debate here today, and I expect a good debate when it comes to this in the future. We believe that the key to reform is just the first line service. She'll be competent, strong, and the users will get what they're up to. Many people have mentioned this with web services, and it was by no means my intention to say that the Internet has not come to be – because I think so. I think a lot of people can use the Internet in a good way, and I'm one of those people who use the Internet on such types of services. My intention was more like what I thought the representative Brandvik said in a very good way, that it was about meeting people, about stops and how to meet you. Some of the keys to the people who are in a difficult situation, and who need help, I think maybe they'll be met in a good way. I also thought that the 17 000 added momentum a good debate about how the reform has been put into practice, if the intention has been followed – the same applies to all users who turn to Nav. I'm very pleased with the Council's response – that she will look at the relationship between the first line service, the local Nav offices and the county line, or the administration. This is something we have to do when we look forward to – with the intention in the back of the head that it is capable of adding and competent Nav offices that stand in front and meet the users with good postures, so that the individual users get a good meeting, feel that they have been taken care of and can get the help they need. Local Nav offices must have all the tools, so that there will be one door, one case handler, and users will have a good meeting with the public.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e743	Like the inter-pellant, I would like to thank you for a very good debate. I think it's been a debate where we've been able to look forward. I'm also very happy that there are several people who have come up with stories that say something about things going much better now. I think it's important that we take it with us. That's also the experience we have, but that doesn't mean that all of the problems are solved. They're not -- we have a lot to work with in the future. I think the representative Karin Andersen was interested in some of the things that are important, because of course the users should still have one door. If we make it work, I don't think anyone is going to be so interested in what's behind – how we distribute work tasks – only the user actually experiences the meeting as well. There are 444 Nav offices set up. For each and every Nav office, competence monitoring is developed, in which the competence of users is mapped. Everyone is subject to a package of competences, including: basic ICT training and information on the content of the service, i.e. the rules that apply, are important. Not least, this is an important part of it with sense of role and communication with users. I think that's also going to be important when we're going to take the next step into the big content reform, with the redundancy money. That's what might be one of the most important things next to the Qualification Program, and it's going to help me realize the goal that we all have – that people can either be at work or in activity – can be realized. I also agree with those who remember that not everything was good before. We received some e-mails late in the night before, as there were three floors. So we also have to take that with us. But of course, our goal must be that we should be so good that those who are users of the system feel that they are being taken seriously. Finally, I would like to say that there are several people here who have been involved in technical solutions. Robert Eriksson said he had problems finding his PINs. I can stress that even the Council of State sometimes has it. But yesterday the government launched a completely new version of Minside and MinID. That means that instead of sending the PIN codes in letters, as we did before, you will now be able to get it on your mobile phone. It's more data-safe, and there'll be more possibilities to figure out those codes. Then you can change both fixed rates, you can check pension benefits and a whole series of other benefits that users will benefit from. I hope that I can also help to make the electronic solutions more user-friendly in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e756	The debate on substance is closed. So 5 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e762	The size now goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e891	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e900	The legislative decision will be taken until the second reading in a later meeting in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e1037	In Case No: 4 and 5 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-27.ana.ud467e1078	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
