ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e22	The following called alternates have taken their seats: For the Hordaland County: Audun Bjørlo Light Hill For the Province of Rogaland: Unn Therese O. Sørensen For Telemark County: Torbjørn Røe Isaksen For South-Trundellag County: Ingvild Vaggen Malvik
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e64	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Magnhild Melting Party Kleppa State Council Day Terje Andersen State Council Board Vegar Solhjell The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. – We will then start with the first main question, from the representative Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e83	My question goes to the Minister of Labour and Inclusion. Over the past week, unfortunately, we have experienced quite extreme situations in the country's capital. We've experienced regular street fights, and we've experienced situations with people who've been running demonstrations similar to those we haven't seen in Norway in a very long time. I feel almost engrossed in French states when I experience and see what was going on in Oslo last week. With regard to these demonstrations, the situation is also such that among those brought in by the police, unfortunately, a very large majority of them were persons with a non-Western migrant background. And we've got the so-called explanations served in the media, from viewers, from immigrant organisations, that this is about a protest against the big society, because these people who grow up in Norway with migrant backgrounds have been deprived of all possibilities. With respect to reporting, it's completely wrong. Hardly anywhere in the world has immigrant youth the opportunities they have in Norwegian society. You have the opportunity to take an education, you have the opportunity to become a doctor, to become a lawyer, to become what you want to be. But these demonstrators chose to pick a stone after the police and put the Oslo Center in chaos. There is no doubt on the part of the Progress Party that this must be seen in the context of Norwegian immigration and integration policies. Do the councils agree? Are the results we saw in Oslo last week a result of the government's so-called good immigration and integration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e94	Like others – and I also understand the representative Amundsen – I have reacted strongly to the events we had in Oslo, both last Thursday and Saturday. I have previously stated publicly – and I would like to repeat it here – that explaining the behaviour of a minority of demonstrators, especially on Saturday, with a lack of integration policy, I do not accept, because it can be seen as an excuse for something that is crime and mobsters and nothing else than that. That is why I am very pleased that the Minister of Justice has also been out there and said as clearly as he has done, that we are expecting severe criminal reactions here, and that the Oslo police have been raising concerns for the youngest of those involved, and are following up criminal justice for the elderly who were involved. Strict reactions are needed here. In my opinion, it is also an attack on freedom of expression that it is those who legally demonstrate either on one side or on the other side of the conflict – as we want it in Norway, that it is possible to express their views – who are being attacked by the minority who have been involved in crime. So I do not want to apologize for this crime with no means of integration. I would like to discuss integration policy. We've put in a lot of improvement measures. But Saturday's actions cannot be excused by poor integration policies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e101	I appreciate the fact that the Council of State underlined that a poor integration policy cannot be blamed, but perhaps the Council of State should also take into account that Norwegian immigration and integration policies still need to be seen in the context of the situation we experienced last week, precisely because we are experiencing today too fast immigration to Norway in relation to what we are able to deal with. 20 pst. Today, the population of Oslo has a non-Western migrant background, and it is quite clear – at least for the majority – that it is not possible to deal with the situation in a good manner of integration policy. There has been a commitment to specific schemes, to provide all kinds of integration measures rather than to demand that immigrants adapt to Norwegian society, and that it is not society that needs to adapt to individual immigrants. Is that what the Council of State sees? Does he see the need to step up immigration policy and make very different demands in immigration policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e106	A common denominator of all the improved integration measures we have put in place – because society is served by giving people an opportunity to Norwegian education, to get into work, to participate in society as quickly as possible – is that demands and offers are followed. It's e.g. a right and obligation to Norwegian training. Here, demands and rights go hand in hand. I think it is wrong when the representative Amundsen characterises asylum and immigration policy in the light of what happened on Saturday. There was actually a minority of protesters who had a migrant background, and to underline it: not everyone with a migrant background in Norway was there throwing stones on Saturday. It's important to have that perspective too. I think the mayor Erling Lae expressed it very clearly: those who are Norwegian citizens are to be treated as Norwegian citizens, regardless of background. We have the same demands, expectations and the same offers for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e113	There will be four follow-up questions – first Torbjørn Røe Isaksen. The President allows himself to remember that when the red lamp goes out, that means closing your mouth, then speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e118	City Councillor Erling Lae, who now runs a town council of the Right and Advance Party, reminded us today that 55 of those who were arrested by the police had an ethnic Norwegian background. He also reminded us of another thing, that it is immaterial. For the right, this case is very simple – a Northman is a Northman, as long as he is born and raised in Norway. A criminal is a criminal, and atrocities are atrocities, regardless of who is behind them. It's a personal responsibility. Putting the blame on immigration policy is wrong. My questions to the Council of State are as follows: Does the Council of State agree that if you are born and raised in Norway, you are to be counted as a Northman as good as anyone? Does the Council agree that this is a problem that needs to be addressed primarily locally? How can the Council of State contribute to this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e125	The answer to the first question is yes. I said that already in a previous answer, and I also referred to the city councillor Lae. Question number two, whether it needs to be dealt with locally: yes, and that is why I am pleased that the national police department at the Minister of Justice is already in good contact with the City Council in Oslo to deal with that situation. I agree with the description given by the representative, that a Northman is a Northman, and that many of those who were in the riots actually had an ethnic Norwegian background and at least cannot be excused by a lack of integration policy. I believe the message being delivered here, and the message I myself wanted to convey is completely in harmony with each other.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e135	Bjørg Tørersdal – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e138	First I have to be allowed to say that I fully agree with the Right in what this is all about. To say it like that, Ole Paus says in a youth musical: A son of a bitch is a jerk no matter the nation. It's about what's done, not who they are. It is a matter of punishing the use of violence and violence for what it is. But what concerns the Christian People's Party in these times is the increasing anti-semitism. We have to do something with that. What also concerns us, and which becomes my question to the Council of State, is: What can we do to ensure that the integration and inclusion work is not set back after the riots of the weekend?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e145	As for the quote from Ole Paus, as the representative pointed out here, I thought it was from another thinking Norwegian person, Odd Einar Dørum, who I have heard said the same thing. But let go – the quote is anyway good. I am concerned that we are following up on the improvements we have made in integration policy based on mutual understanding and respect for each other. This applies to both sides of those who have now demonstrated and spoken in the serious, worrying situation of the Gaza Strip. Both sides have been expressed, both sides have demonstrated. That is what we expect in a free democratic society, that it should be an opportunity to express your views. Then there's someone who abuses that situation, and I'm very concerned that it's going to be treated like the crime it is, and that one doesn't judge it in terms of discussing integration policies, which are going to be good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e152	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e155	When there's a broad consensus here that we don't think communist, we don't all cut over a comb, but believe that individuals are responsible, it's not interesting in the staging room that we have to agree to defeat force and vandalism. That's a consensus. What's interesting is what we do to prevent this in any later round. For one like me, who has memory from the beginning of the 1980s when you broke routes on Karl Johan and burned car tires, but didn't have text messages and couldn't produce mass suggestion quickly, the question comes: what can we learn from what happened at the Oslo schools when we had the Muhammad caricatures? We had quiet in 169 of 171 schools, but what we heard about in public was the other two schools, not the 169. What can we do, in the follow-up of the police and all other good forces, to create other role models, other ways of channeling rage than vandalism? That's the core question now. My question: How far has the Council of State gone when it comes to how we're looking from the past, but also now we're going to prevent the next round?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e164	As we agree on the description of the events on Saturday, I think it's important that we start with the investigation that the police are doing now, because then we agree that it is primarily an investigation case. Many of the follow-up will be on justice policy instruments, as the Minister of Justice has said, and I note that there is good cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo on follow-up and concern talks with minors and follow-up of justice policy. However, it is clear that in the general integration policy there is a question of both school measures, activity offers, Norwegian training, integration and, above all, the difficulty many with migrant backgrounds in entering the labour market despite good education, etc. Once again, I conclude by saying that I do not want there to be an excuse in the current situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e171	Åge Starheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e174	I am pleased that the Council of State says that what has happened should be taken seriously, because it is necessary. We've heard in the last few days that sports have almost gone on in this. When a youth is interviewed, they say that this is a way to get a crowd out. It's likely to get stronger in the future, and it'll be sad if we get into the same situation as other countries have. It is therefore necessary that one reacts strongly to this and that one reacts immediately. What I want to ask the Council of State is: when we register that people who have entered the country and applied for asylum are taken to be part of these demonstrations, it is doubtful when one hears that... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e181	The police are now going through who has encouraged riots, who has participated in riots, and what background they have. At least I have not been aware of any dominant part of the picture that asylum seekers have been initiators and main actors here. There are probably other groups that are most represented, the vast majority of Norwegian citizens. In the police's work, a job is also done to look at who initiated and encouraged the violence. There we know that other Norwegian citizens with an ethnic Norwegian background may have been among the very active. I believe that the most important thing we can do to avoid that kind of riot in the future is that through our political work, we contribute to the not strengthening, but building up of hatred between groups, the cultivation of mutual respect for each other, and the non-use of conflicts in a political game. It can be our most important contribution to making sure that we don't get these kinds of events in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e188	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e191	My question goes to the Minister of Knowledge. There is a broad consensus that we have quality challenges in school. The right has always thought that resources are one of several factors that affect quality, but that's not the only one. The competence of teachers, the degree of calm in the learning situation, school ownership and school management are all important factors contributing to quality. Besides, it's very important how we use the resources. For the Right, it's always been important to focus on spending money on the most important thing first: we're going to teach kids how to read, write and calculate. At least in the opposition, SV has prejudiced the view that school policy is a matter of more money. In the 2005 election campaign, Kristin Halvorsen stood in the Botanical Garden and called out to the schoolchildren: What kind of food do you want? And she said to the Newspaper on 25 August 2005 that more money is a prerequisite, that if we go to government it will shine off the school, and that ‘we have to send a signal that the time of the school cuts is over.’ After more than three years in government offices, the situation is now that the Council of State Solhjell sends out press releases saying that he is concerned about the cuts in the school budgets and about the closure of schools. In Dagbladet on 8 November 2008, Per Aahlin, Vice-Chairman of the Education Association, says: Based on the feedback we have received, the situation appears to be worse than before. Schools are laid down and cut into school budgets throughout the country. In Skien, the head of school and kindergarten Dag Olav Espeland tells us that the municipality has closed five schools and will cut 40 years of teaching in 2009. We're in a new election year now. Based on what we know about the school today, they have been notified to KS that half of the municipalities will cut into posts and budgets in 2009, and the Education Association's statements that the situation is worse than before are the questions: Will SV repeat in this year's election campaign, or perhaps even reinforce, the message and characteristics they joined in 2005?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e207	As Kristin Halvorsen said at the time, more money is a means of making a better school. But what's pretty new is that the Right also says that more money is an obsession. For the Right, for many years, the opposite is true, that the economy doesn't matter. The reasonable picture is that more money, i.e. larger resources, is a necessary, but far from sufficient, commitment to create a better school. Many of the measures we are now implementing, a rector's school, more further education for teachers, investing in more teachers during the first few years, costing money, and we're funding it over budgets. Let's take a picture of the situation: we just got new numbers before Christmas about developments when it comes to the resource situation in the school. They confirm that the image, the clear decline in learning density, that the groups were larger and the distance from the student to the teacher was longer, as we saw in the previous period, has been reversed. Development is stable. There's two ways to measure it. One shows a slight rise; the other shows a slight decline. So it's a stable image. Of course, there is growth in the school sector around the municipality of Norway, but the growth is not as strong as for kindergartens, where he has been very strong, and also not as strong as in health and care. My ambition is that for years to come, we will see an even stronger growth in the school. But it gives a completely wrong picture when you say that there is a crisis or that there is generally a decline in the learning density around the municipality of Norway. The main reason for this is that the government has increased the free resources to the municipalities significantly, that they have grown to a total of 29 billion dollars in this period. Fortunately, a lot of it has been used to build a good school locally. In addition, there are very strong national efforts in the budget next year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e216	I note that the State Council in Stortinget today tells me that both the Federation of Education and the Municipal Councils of Central America are completely wrong in their analyses of the situation of School-Norway around. It is also interesting to note that SV, with Bård Vegar Solhjell in the head, has now begun to believe that it is also interesting with factors other than resources. It has never been the message to SV before, and I repeat what Kristin Halvorsen said: ‘If we go to government, Norway will have a school that shines off’, and we ‘must send a signal that the time of the school cuts is over.’ Schools are laid down, it is cut in school budgets, and teachers throughout the country are told up. I think it is positive that SV has also taken up part of the suggestions made by the Right and that the Right started with in the previous period: principal's school, continuing training of teachers and hiring more teachers. But what is the situation today is quite the opposite of what SV went to election in 2005. The question is repeated: Will SV repeat its 2005 characteristics in the 2009 election campaign?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e225	The changes for children growing up in Norway today are significant in the kindergarten and school sectors. If one today has children who go to elementary school or kindergarten, one of the first chances is that there is a greater chance of a kindergarten with better contents and at a much lower price. One has fruit and vegetables at the youth stage, several hours at the first and fourth stages, more physical activity in the fifth to seventh stages, free teaching material in the further education, as well as that one can count on having a teacher who also has — it is documented — more competence. This has been a significant development of competence in recent years. We also implement a number of other measures for teachers and others. What's new is that Right, who for many years said that it doesn't matter if we invest money in school, now stands at the forefront and says that money for the municipal sector is the most important thing. Right to right has started the election campaign. We've given money to the municipalities to follow up, but of course it's both money and other things that need to be done to make a better school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e232	There will be follow-up questions – first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e235	The schoolroom that SV presented in 2005 has almost become a nightmare for both the university and the school. I find it interesting to note that the Council of State in its first response to the main questioner actually shows that he is proud that it has not become worse than in the previous period, that it shines as much now as it did then, for example. in the case of teacher density. The Progress Party presented an interpellation, which the Council of State answered last Friday, where the Progress Party pointed to the resource situation and its consequences, for example. for organised education for students, which is now proving to be becoming increasingly poor. The Progress Party also said that earmarking can be a targeted and safe tool to ensure that the school is not further drained for resources. It was a proposal that the Council of State rejected very harshly. In return, the Council of State did not, at least not last Friday, have any suggestions on how to secure the resources of the school in the future. That is why I am asking the Council of State: has the Council of State, since Friday, found out how he can actually secure more resources for the school?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e242	Then I repeat the main message from Friday: there will be more resources. There is growth in the school sector in Kommune-Noreg every year. There have been several teachers, more competence for the teachers, several hours, fruit and green and free teaching material in further education during the period we have run. But what's interesting is how the opposition of those degrees cracks in their solutions. The party of progress will have ear markings. It does not want the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The right hand side and the right hand side vote for several hours. The Christian People's Party and the Left vote against the same hours. The party of progress and the Christian People's Party is too fruity and green. Right and left are opposite. So it cracks in all the imaginable constellations of all of these important things. We can bet on both content, skills for teachers, a teacher education, several hours and a development that is necessary for a new and longer school day, and the well-being issues, for example. free teaching material in continuing school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e249	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e252	I have a follow-up question for the Minister of State. We recorded that the Prime Minister did not mention school in the New Year's. But we see from the numbers that the main questioner pointed out that there has been a great deal of closure of schools. There have been 146 fewer primary schools in recent years. Most schools have been closed down with less than 100 students. We see that the student group size is increasing, even though the state council is trying to use other numbers here. I would like to ask the Minister for Municipalities: are you worried about the regional development we are now seeing, that it will be difficult for small municipalities with few inhabitants and small schools, to maintain the quality of school with the resource availability they have? Does the council see that the expectation that her government has created, that it will flood milk and honey in the municipalities, now that it must be quite despairing for school leaders to look at this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e261	I think the government has realistic estimates of the funds available to the municipalities. We're glad we got $8.4 billion in total in October. However, we see that 2008 was a more demanding year than both the Government and the municipalities themselves had expected, and that there are now consequences when municipalities are going to lay down their budgets for 2009. We are still busy securing the goal that municipalities should have funds according to the tasks. I react with concern to what is now happening in Skule-Noreg, but we do not ignore the fact that there are also reasonable clarifications going on locally. Not all schools have the right to life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e268	Odd Einar Dørum – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e271	I'm going back to my favorite, State Councillor Solhjell. Everyone knows, through research, that there is nothing better for the school than a high level of teacher competence. Betting on the teachers and giving the teachers skills gives good results in school, and it smooths out the social difference you can bring with you from before. In this field, at least the Council of State knows – and certainly some more – that the Left has argued every year that we should have systematic, competent further training for all teachers in all subjects at regular intervals. That's something that we've at least tried to get there. In the case of continuing training, the State Council has begun with the letter A. But if we're to be good students, we have to learn the entire alphabet. So that's 29 letters. Therefore, my question is, When will the Council of State complete a commitment to continuing training for teachers, so that there will be systematic further training for all teachers in all subjects? When does he want to take the entire alphabet, instead of being careful to start with the letter A and possibly end with it, as it looks now?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e281	In this area, Odd Einar Dørum is my favorite, so it's mutual. It is true, as Dørum has said, that he and the Left have argued every year that there is a need to build skills for teachers, just as SV has. They have argued for it, but have done nothing about it in the seven years left in government, of the last twelve. There was no systematic, permanent possibility of continuing vocational training or a year of competence on which the Left has opted, not even a day of competence in those years. We've got that for the first time since next year. With that clearance level, over 400 million. kr for continuing education, which is now available, it will be a large room. The further education part of it will provide room for further training of 30 to 60 credits for up to 2000 students when it is fully phased in. It's not really money that's the main problem here, but recruiting, getting qualified temporary workers to make sure that it doesn't go beyond the students.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e288	Erna Solberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e291	I have to say that I can't help but smile, because I have an amazing experience that we have a council of states that is waiting to try to explain what is a fact. SV has changed the whole strategy and the arguments from the 2005 elections. Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide pointed that out. The Council of State claims that nothing was done about continuing education, but the whole package this government is implementing is the package that the previous government implemented. The previous government carried out twelve extra hours of week. In the best economic times the country has been through, this government has only clearly five extra hours. My point is that it's fine that SV has changed policy, but are they going to change rhetoric? Are they going to admit that the school policy they went to elections is not what they're doing? Are they going to admit that SV was wrong, historically, and that we have to introduce a different school policy – the school policy that is based on knowledge, quality and demands, that is, the school policy that SV has been adopting in all years before?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e300	I'm not smiling, I'm really taking it seriously that the representative Solberg from Right to the degrees is trying to rewrite the story of what SV stands for. We're going to continue with the school policy that has the following core: a longer and new school day where one has food, physical activity and several hours, which we have endured for many years, and which has gradually increased now, just as it was gradually done in the previous period. We're going to continue the struggle for more socializing in school, where a new day at school is important, and not least an early effort. So one has to deal with the problems of the first school years and also in the kindergarten: the contents of the nursery, places for everyone and so low that everyone can go there. We will continue the fight against private bullets, but of course also the fight for quality and content. This is why EN has been busy for ten years with more further training for the teachers and better teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e307	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e310	My question goes to the Minister of State. We are waiting for the package of measures, and we have clear expectations for it. For the Christian People's Party, it is absolutely vital that we get a package of measures to secure businesses and jobs, and that we take the opportunity to clean up roads, schools and hospitals across the country. We expect a green package of measures – which means a large-scale effort on energy savings in buildings, environmentally friendly transport and renewable energy. We will see increased maintenance and construction in all our municipalities. That's good, but it costs! We have already been informed that many municipalities have to quit teachers and caregivers because of the tight economy in 2009. And in our eagerness to meet increasing unemployment in construction, we must not have a package of measures that exacerbate the situation, and that requires an increasing proportion of the free resources of municipalities. Then we can risk that it will compromise the quality of school and care services in the municipalities. Or, in another way, we must not risk giving up two teachers in one school because of the tight economy, and that two teachers will be added to action later. My call to the Council of State is: The government must not present a package of measures requiring a large proportion of the municipalities. On the contrary, the package of measures should include an increase in the free income of the municipality in order to ensure employment and quality in the school, health and care sectors. My question is: can the Council guarantee that the package of measures does not lead to the dismissal of teachers and caregivers? Does the Council of State see that it is very wise to increase the transfer of free resources to the municipalities now?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e321	It is a demanding question to answer right now when the government is working intensively with the package. What I can confirm is that the date is 26 January, i.e. that there are twelve more days. What I can also say is that neither the scope nor the device is fully clear at this point in time. What I can agree with the representative of Tørresdal is that the municipalities should be a significant partner for this package. The government has a good dialogue with various organisations to link the current need to secure the available hands to work. Land association of construction, construction, etc. is a natural game there. We've got a lot of input. We know that there are good plans in the municipalities, but in fact, I'm not sure if I can meet all the expectations that we're now registering. So I'm going to say that the representative Tørresdal has a wise approach, in the sense that she reminds us that we don't have to stand up so that there are unemployed teachers and carers out the one door, and then carpenters and plumbers come in the other door.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e332	I'm glad the Council of State sees the point of my question. It is very important that we are allowed to expect the thinking behind the package of measures, because we can put the municipalities in a very difficult situation if they cannot afford the usual and important operation of the municipalities, namely welfare production, kindergarten, school, care for the elderly, etc. They must be able to afford it. In this eagerness to clean up and maintain – which is very important – one must not forget the primary work. But then there is a good thing about loan arrangements, and we would like to get more in the package, because there is a great need for them. But someone can't just have it. If only a person receives loan arrangements, equity is required. So the municipalities have to afford to borrow. We also need measures that will help those municipalities that do not have the money to spit into new measures, but that need refurbishment and maintenance. Does the Council of State see that one must have both, loan schemes and grants at this stage?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e339	I register that I am constantly being offered to say something more about what assessments are taking place in these days of the Government when it concerns the package devices. What is quite clear is that 2008 was a more demanding year for the municipalities than planned, even more demanding than the government planned. It is also clear from the budgets that municipalities have created so far, and from both the central and local authorities, that there is a need for funding in addition to borrowing arrangements. How this is finally arranged by the Government, I must be allowed to return to 26 January. I guess that can be the answer both–and.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e344	There will be three follow-up questions – first Ib Thomsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e347	The Progress Party pointed to the economy and space of action in the municipalities and was concerned about the slowdown in the municipalities already during the 2009 budget review. In a recent study, there is evidence that there is a lag of 142 billion kroner. It is a great expectation around the municipalities. We have had new episodes of fire in nursing homes etc. in the municipalities, and the Council of State has gone out and said that she wants sprinkler facilities in all new buildings. I would like to present a challenge to the Council of State: does the Council of State see the need for sprinkler facilities also in existing buildings that house vulnerable groups in the municipalities? Is this something she wants to add to the package of measures coming on 26 January?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e357	Let me first tell you about the delay in maintaining that there is nothing that was discovered in the autumn of 2008. All of us in the municipal sector have known for a long time that the municipalities have seen enough to neglect maintenance tasks. So, the question of fire safety. It is such that it is under the Ministry of Justice when it comes to existing buildings. I know that the directorate will follow closely up, and there will also be an own staging message about fire before Easter. When it comes to new constructions, my approach is the building part of the building law and technical regulations. That's where I'm going to propose a tightening that I want to apply from 1 January 2010. A listening note expires, hopefully in May, on improvements in technical regulations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e366	Bent Höie – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e369	Part of the package of measures was chosen by the Government to go out with already during the budgetary procedure, and it was that municipalities would have any tax failure in 2009 compensated by the State. But it is not entirely immaterial how this tax failure will be compensated, because it will be the most tax-intensive municipalities that will get the biggest losses by any reduction in tax revenue. Therefore, it would be important for the Government to choose to compensate for this tax failure through increased municipal taxpayers or through increased community grants. If the government chooses the last solution, it is once again that this government chooses to punish the big municipalities where most people in this country live and who have the biggest challenges. Can the Council of State now confirm that not only the municipalities will be compensated at macro level for the failure of tax revenue, but that the municipalities that will lose the most will also be compensated for their lost tax revenue?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e376	I am pleased with the reception of this message, and that the municipalities are now feeling safe in relation to any tax failure. So it's the right thing the representative Höie says, that there are different ways to deal with this. It will also be part of the package of measures coming on 26 January, in addition to clarifying how the various measures should be aligned with the municipalities. We have to get back to that then.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e381	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e384	One thing the state council doesn't have to be afraid of breaking up is that there's going to be a stake in construction, for the advertised prime minister relatively publicly at the NHO's annual conference. It was one thing that happened on 1 January, and it was that the Anti-Discrimination Act came into force. It's really great to have this trio of state councils here, which together are going to be able to lift it. One of the things that lies there is that schools should now have main entrances available, and that special rooms should be accessible to everyone. So there's a lot of changes that have to be made to construction. Of course, I would like to get a common answer, but it's probably impossible to get, so I'm going to ask the municipal minister, how have you done to prepare the municipalities for this coming? And is this something that is also being played into this action package, so that we don't now build construction that means that we beat ourselves on the mouth with what we've adopted through the new, amazing law?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e391	I share the joy that Dagrun Eriksen here conveys. It's very good, after 30 years with a lot of good talk about availability, that there's now a law in place. So it's always easier for a law to apply to new buildings, because one will then have the possibility, very often without special extra costs, to put universal design into planning. There is something heavier, but absolutely necessary, to ensure the availability of everyone in different existing buildings. This applies to schools, different workplaces and, of course, many other public buildings. Several departments are now working on how to set up a plan for it. [[The President cut off]] Sculpture building should be first
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e396	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e399	Now I hope for some answers. I want to ask Councillor Solhjell. The theme is the Commission's report, which finally came yesterday, at the initiative of the Left. It says a lot about children and young people and privacy. I want to read a sentence: ‘If children grow up with monitoring being an acceptable tool, regardless of whether the problem can be addressed in a less radical way, the perspectives that will be important to society when the child grows up and is to play a civil role in our democracy’.» Governments have been the promoter of increased registration, a registration that the Commission says contains an unfortunate amount of information. The Commission is critical of both increasing student registration, increasing the storage of information on the activity of the students and increasing the transparency of all the information stored. It is very critical to many of the learning platforms that in very offensive sales portfolios explain that there are no obstacles to what can be stored by the students’ activity and the transparency that can be given in what students do during their working day. The PCs can be monitored all the time. There can be insight into absolutely everything that's done. We see that armaments, which the Council of State is actually opposed to, are being carried out. We're watching TV surveillance, which will soon make it impossible to have a straight corner in a normal high school. There are very many parts of children and young people's privacy that are constantly being threatened. Nor is there any limit to the amount of information gathered in Norwegian schools. My question is, has this been serious about the state council? Is the Council of State worried? Is there anything in what the Data Protection Commission has addressed, which the Council of State considers to be worth increasing its efforts towards and getting something done about?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e415	We've been real for a long time. That's why it's a very important and good question that's being raised here, because the privacy challenges we have in society are going to increase and become very big, even bigger than today. One of the fields where we have to have proper rounds in the years ahead is school, and I want to add kindergarten, because this is about kids who are in no way able to make all the necessary assessments, for example. in relation to the long-term consequences of behaviour in different situations, whether on-line or out-of-school. As the representative points out, we see that there is an example of a local implementation of a number of measures that it is at least possible to discuss wisely, and of course also because we need to assess to what extent we should have greater national leadership, and to what extent the individual municipality and county council should have clearer legislation in relation to privacy. I have to admit that I have not been able to read the Commission's report or look into it thoroughly, but I have looked at some of the things that are being taken up there. I can assure you that I will take that work very seriously. We're going to have a work of our own in the Department of Knowledge, where we're going to go into the recommendations about the whole field of knowledge and school and kindergarten, for which I'm responsible. I see that there are several interesting suggestions that are taken up there, and that we will consider more closely.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e424	I'm going to give the Government credit for being active when it comes to e.g. bullying among children. However, it is not particularly active in monitoring children and children’s right to privacy. I would like to mention an example from the Council of State's own municipality. I have received enquiries from a number of parents who think it is strange that children receive an admission card at the school that they are going to leave when they enter the room, and that if you borrow the card, you are going to lose it because there are errors in the registration in the school about which rooms the children have been in. It's in the Council of State's own municipality of residence. Governments have said several times here in the Questionnaire that he is against some of the armaments that are going on in some schools. But there is no initiative to get anything done to stop it or to limit it. I wonder if the Council of State at all feels that it is important to limit the intervention of adults towards children, even when it comes to adults who are not the bosses of children, and whether there are any initiatives that the Government can take in that area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e434	At first I think it might be necessary to say that the main picture at Norwegian schools is not that there is a comprehensive registration of children at e.g. electronic tags, camera or other means. The main picture is that kids can feel safe there, that there are are arenas where there is no unnecessary monitoring or registration, but that of course we collect information that is being treated very carefully in line with all the guidelines that are, and then there is a significant local freedom of action to deal with different situations. I think there's a reason to take a closer look at some of the episodes that we're familiar with. I thought that the Privacy Commission would be a good opportunity to do more systematic work on it from a national perspective, both to look at our national guidelines and to see if there is a need for more community-level orientation towards each school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e441	There will be three follow-up questions – first Jon Hunter Gåssvatn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e444	In the summer, the Council of State sent out a proposal for the establishment of a central student register with comprehensive personal data at individual level in order to obtain a better research basis. The party to the progress has been sceptical about the establishment of such a register, and the same scepticism expresses both the Data Protection Authority, the KS and the Data Protection Commission. The register will cover not only information about the child but also the family of the child, and it will be the most comprehensive personal data register in Norway as regards the nature, scope and connectivity of the child. We know that children and young people are more vulnerable and have less prerequisites for setting limits on what they should find themselves in, and the school has a special responsibility for the signals they send out to people in that phase of life. With surveillance cameras in the school yard and extensive record of personal data, how will the Council of State ensure that children and young people are protected, and not least that they are developing an informed consent qualification and a denial competence?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e453	Let me first say that I used to be here in a question hour very clearly and many times have killed the most extensive myths about what was in that proposal for a student register that we provided, where we should not in any way store sensitive information about religion, sexual orientation or other things at individual level. On the contrary, it should provide for better research and analysis, and only at an aggregate level, i.e. in terms of its size. Then there are important questions the representative raises further. I have to say again that I have not been able to get into everything, because it is a very comprehensive material that the Privacy Commission has presented in my field. But I want to start a work with us to go through this, both to assess whether there is a need for clearer guidelines at national level and whether there is a need for the same at municipal level to each school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e460	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e463	As the previous question was raised, last autumn a consultation draft for a student register was submitted. The draft consultation provides for reading that personal relationships such as: health conditions, sexual orientation, ethnic background and religious perception can have a major impact on the individual’s perception of the physical and psychosocial learning environment. So this was information that the students were going to provide. In this context, the question is not really whether it should be stored at the individual level or not, but that the individual should have to specify the type of things that go pretty close to the integrity of very many. This issue was addressed in a Question Time on 5 November 2008. Then the Council of State said: ‘I’m going to have close contact with the Data Protection Agency, the Student Organisation and the opposition at Stortinget and discuss whether we’re going to present it, and if so, how we’re going to be 100 pst. ensure that important data protection considerations are taken care of.’;» My question is, When will that contact be made with the opposition on Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e475	First, the representative gives a very selective description. She reads some sentences, but not the sentences just above. It says: ‘This information does not need to be stored at individual level in the national database for the current purpose.’ On the other hand, there are very important questions that you can ask. Let me take a question like this. the homofiles' organizations and student search have been drivers to get in. We ask if one has experienced bullying on the basis of sexual orientation. It's pretty important to find out. We know that the most common shell word in Norwegian youth school today is gay. Then, of course, it's important that we get the coverage of it. And it's new to me that the Right is against us asking questions that can reveal it, because there's just such questions this hearing draft is about. And then we'll consider in the future whether we're going to make a proposal. We'll go through it with every instance, and we'll make contact when it's done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e487	André N. Skkelstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e490	I would like to ask a follow-up question to the Minister for Labour and Inclusion. Nav has a door in, but there are many doors out for personal data. The personal data can be disseminated for all winners. Last week, it turned out that Nav was overly sensitive to sensitive personal data. We're always told that this is a violation of Nav's routines. The question then arises: What measures does the Council of State consider that he needs to put in place to ensure better practices, so that sensitive personal data are not compromised?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e499	As the representative himself said, we had a thorough discussion on this topic for a short time, with the background that we made a number of proposals that would help to make it easier to clarify and detect fraud with the social security system. Then I think we went into it thoroughly, and made clear boundaries for the flow of information linked to that issue. A comprehensive topic in that debate was that, of course, all the work done by Nav is based on the requirements of the Data Protection Act. It was made when Nav was to be established, and the technical solutions for the flow of personal information are constantly being improved. There is a well-known case in the Nav system that we need to be able to move information internally into the system in order to get faster and better processing. There's also been a theme here sometimes, and I assume there's a consensus on that. One way to achieve better ICT solutions [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e506	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e510	I have a question for the Council of State Day Terje Andersen. On 12 January, the following notice was published in the VG: ‘NAV asked nurse Aina to apply for disability benefit. She worked after surgery at a private clinic, but she has to pay for the operation herself." This person is 35 years old. For more than ten years, she has been struggling with backaches. Two years ago she was told that she could apply for disability benefit. She did not want it and went to her firm doctor, who sent her to a private clinic. She was operated on, and half a year later she was back in full employment. But one of the problems was that she had to pay the entire operation, which cost NOK 109 000, herself. Like I said, she was 35 years old. That means that if she had followed Nav's advice, she would have had disability benefit for 32 years until she reached retirement age, i.e. a cost in a place between 7 and 10 million. kr for taxpayers. In addition, of course, she would have had a worse life. Now I am aware that the government does not shoot any means to crack private operators in such a market, but this takes the cake, and it strikes innocent people in an improper way. I can't believe that Nav can come up with a suggestion to disapprove one person to several million, when an operation of $100,000 would solve the problem. This person had money and could do it. There are many people in society who don't have $109,000 to take such an operation. The government parties add this policy to a sorting society – those who can afford treatment, and those who do not. The Party of Progress does not accept such discrimination. Does the Council of State feel that it is the individual's personal economy to decide whether or not to be able to cope with disability?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e528	Finally, on the specific question, which I felt was not just related to the example that was used, the answer is, of course, no, I do not believe that the individual's economy should be decisive for what welfare services we get in Norway. That's the whole reason for the political commitment to the party I represent, and the government I represent. So the answer to that is clearly no. We just don't want the difference in personal finances to determine which offers you get. So a little comment to Nav. I cannot comment on this individual matter, and I do not know enough the relationship between the applicant and Nav and Nav's handling of the matter. But in general, I can say that everything we are now working on in connection with reforming the Nav system is just about what I perceive the representative Svendsen is asking for: It should be the goal of those who need a Nav offer, that one should try every opportunity to get into work instead of receiving social security. The whole background for the conversion we're now doing in Nav is getting to it. We also know that part of the agreement on inclusive working life is just to be able to implement health measures to get out of a situation with a medical report as soon as possible, that is, exactly the same purpose. The purpose is to help people get to work. In one area, I agree with what I perceive as the message in the representative from Svendsen says, namely that it is important that, in particular, the person who is early in working life get help to get back to work, rather than that the solution becomes a passive social security. And as I said, it is the whole purpose of the Nav reform that is now being implemented.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e537	I thank you for your answer. I understood it so that the councils and government parties do not want a sorting society. However, the practical policy pursued leads to a sort society – that shows this example. So here you can buy past the queue and not get dissatisfaction because you have money, and because the government has a strong desire to break as many private companies as possible in this sector. I think we need all the good forces, including private ones, to avoid people going into bad luck. Although the health budget will save a few dollars in this area, expenditure comes from other items. My supplementary question is: will the Council of State ensure that the rules are strengthened so that such situations do not arise and we avoid a sorting society? In addition, I would like to ask: will the Council of State take initiatives towards the Minister of Health so that this person is reimbursed the money she has paid for this operation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e544	Unfortunately, I have to say to the last question that I cannot process the case at the individual level in a reply in Stortinget's Question Time; I do not know the case either well enough. Because, as the representative Svendsen now suggested, much of this issue is about healthcare reimbursement and funding. But what I can say is that I and the Minister of Health have a continuous dialogue on the role of health care and health care in relation to achieving the objectives that I underlined in my first response, and which is the purpose of the Nav reform, to facilitate as many as possible to have an activity option – getting back to work instead of ending up as a disability, whether there are direct health-related reasons why a person is at risk of being dissatisfaction, or there are other possible reasons why a person may become unsatisfied. So the intention in it is being followed up by the Nav reform, and it is being followed up in cooperation between me and the Minister of Health.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e549	There will be follow-up questions – Martin Engeset.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e552	I understand that the Council of State cannot handle individual cases from the Parliament's pulpit. But this example is one of very many that shows a serious system failure, namely the fact that many remain in health queues, health cows are growing, while a simple operation could lead a much faster return to work, to the joy of individual workers and with great economic savings for society. We have a situation where 700,000 people in pre-employment are out of work, sick leave is increasing, and we are constantly setting new records in the number of unemployed. Could the Council of State imagine giving Nav all the responsibility for the purchase of health care system, because we know that we are working very well, and not letting all the money allocated to this scheme go into the huge drain of regional health businesses? Will the Council of State take the initiative?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e559	As I said in a previous answer, as part of the agreement on inclusive working life, it is precisely stimulating health care so that a quick return to work is an important element. So a significant part of the Nav reform is helping people with health care to get back to work. I think that's the most important thing, and what I can answer the representative now, because I can't review professional health assessments, as it is the health services in Norway that do, and detailed management. I can ensure that the political framework conditions and appropriations are present. The professional assessments I can't overdo, and especially not the medical ones.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e564	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e567	After all, the government has said from day one that you want to focus less on social security and more on work. This was also thoroughly repeated and supported when we dealt with the work and inclusion message a few years ago. When we look at this matter, it is, in my opinion, a crown example of the lack of interaction between two departments and the interaction with the law. As at present, this treatment is not authorised in Norway, but is authorised in other countries. The whole core point is that you might look at the system that you have in sports, at least in the field of ballistics, where you have some advantage paragraphs when you come alone against goals. Even if you're tried to be kicked from behind, you have the opportunity to cut targets. This person has managed to cut targets, this person has returned to work. It was also said that you should put all the cloths on. Will the Council of State consider the possibility of introducing such an advantage paragraph in the system?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e576	There are already arrangements today to help you get health care that will speed up your return to work. However, the health evaluations of the individual patient’s health services are another question. On the main question to the representative, if we want arrangements to help people get back to work, the answer is yes, and we already have. I just want to repeat that it can be difficult sometimes on the basis of a media look-up to get an overview of the whole of a case, all aspects of a case and, in particular, the health assessments. That's the background for not commenting on this particular matter in particular. The general legislation that stimulates health services for people to get into work, we have, and we are constantly discussing, of course, whether it should be improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e583	Let's go to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e587	My question goes to the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs. When I'm going to sum up three years with the Central Party in the Department of Local and Regional Affairs, I have to sum them up that it's three lost years for local democracy. Local democracy has lost in areas by area. This may surprise many people because the Central Party likes to be the party that draws local democracy the most forward in its celebrations. But when it comes to the harsh realities, there are always other considerations that weigh more heavily on that party. We have seen this when the provisions of the Law on Planning and Building have been tightened up, so that the local authorities' opportunities to grant exemptions, for example. for construction in the 100 metre belt has been tightened. Regional plans have become more binding for municipalities. A ban has been introduced on the purchasing centre of 3000 m2. In the new Land Law, municipalities were not involved in setting limits. One has granted County Agricultural Administration the right of appeal to the State Agriculture Administration in cases where a nationally elected County Agriculture Board has taken legal decisions. One has tightened the right of municipalities to dispose of their own income by reducing the municipal taxpayer and removing corporate tax. – These are just a few examples of the fact that when the Central Party is in government, there are always other considerations that outweigh the belief in local politicians. Each of these approaches is evidence that the Government has greater confidence in its own assessment than in the fact that the sense is equally distributed in this country, and that a local government, which is closest to where the inhabitants live, is actually the one that can judge a matter at its best. My question to the municipal minister is, Is she satisfied when she looks back at the way the central party in government has dealt with local democracy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e605	The answer is yes. The center party is very happy after three years in government. We believe that we have seen our solid stamp in very important areas for the inhabitants of this country – not only when it comes to good local welfare, good local care, to ensure much better communication, to secure a more offensive industrial policy and also culture and volunteering, which were our top tasks when we went to elections, but actually also to give greater opportunity to local assessments, for example. by strengthening the local economy significantly and by increasing the budget for transport and other areas. So that's what Bent Höie is now taking up and indebting, for example. The relationship between plans and exemptions: I think it is better for the individual citizen and for the local populace that one comes to the forefront and places more emphasis on planning work. It is the Government's intention to have both the necessary listening processes and the necessary discussion processes. Thus, municipal plans and regional plans will be far more important than they are at present. Then one of these frustrating discussions about dispensations of a different kind avoids. Then it's quite clear that the Center Party is not in government alone. There is a cooperation between three parties. Of course, it also makes itself active in individual matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e614	Point 1: The Council of State draws up the municipal economy as an example of an increase in the autonomy of the municipalities, but the fasitium, which has now come from the Technical Calculation Committee, shows that the growth of the municipal economy was almost exactly the same under the previous government that is now under this government. So it's repudiated. The question here is that immediately you go into the specific areas where the municipalities should have freedom of action, for example: in the planning of areas, the Minister for Local Government also comes here with other considerations which weigh more heavily. Both the municipal minister and I come from a state that is characterized by a lot of water, high mountains, many narrow strips and small islands. In such a state it is impossible to operate local planning if one is unable to give a derogation from the 100 metre belt. Is the Council satisfied with the fact that local politicians around the country can no longer control the development of their own municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e621	Here were two claims. One is that there is the growth of revenue and the percentage of TBUs that determine whether there is local freedom of action. I believe that the fact that 45 000 more have been added to the municipal sector says something that there is greater local freedom of action under this government. So it is with different types of planning work – we have also seen it in concrete matters that have been dealt with in Stortinget – that there are different approaches to the concerns to be taken, from the three government parties. This can be seen in specific cases, and it can also be seen, for example: in the handling of the 100-metre belt. But it is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration that there should be geographical differentiation. So let me say that when I'm going to sum up these three years, there have been very good teamwork from this government, for the good of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e628	Then, for the sake of time, there is only the possibility of two follow-up questions – first Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e631	It may seem as if the reality of the government's mention of local democracy is that local democracy will only apply in those contexts where there is no imminent danger that the municipalities will pursue a policy different from that of the government, because on very important issues it is thus that politicians locally have no opportunity to influence decisions. Just to take an example that has been very topical in Kommune-Norway in the last six months: the establishment of asylum recipients. This is a major concern of the individual community, but local politicians are set aside by public bureaucracy, which obviously has full and full governance in this area. Is it true that the Government only wants local democracy in matters where there is no danger that the municipalities will pursue a different policy than the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e636	The government has invited the Stortinget to its own debate on just a stronger local democracy through a magnificence that is now being discussed in the Municipal and Administrative Committee. There will be the possibility to discuss more closely the suggestions and the recordings that come from the Government, which will tell you about both how to play teams with the inhabitants even more strongly than today, and about community initiatives, local referendums, more openness in different processes, etc. So to the specific matter of asylum reception. I am pleased that a much better dialogue has now been established, not least between UDI and the individual municipality. There have been unlucky processes that all parties have now agreed to fix.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e643	Torbjørn Røe Isaksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e646	In today's edition of the excellent regional policy body Nations, we can read that, according to the Bondebladt, the Central Party's nutritionist, Ola Borten Moe, has called for ‘arguments strongly for’, even states that the local authorities' ability to re-disperse cultivated land must be tightened. My first question is, does this mean that the centre party is drifting in this case against less municipal autonomy? The second question is: If you combine the centre party's slide against less municipal self-government for the sake of primary industries with SV's skepticism to municipal self-government where environmental issues are at stake, and the Workers' Party's general confidence in central government, is there any danger of local self-government in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e653	In fact, in international terms, local democracy in Norway has been shown to be strong. In fact, there was no danger here in showing examples that it is absolutely necessary in some areas to be very conscious of what should be superior to national concerns and how to balance local freedom of action. I just found the Red Isaxis a very good example of it. It is quite obvious that when a person is able to cultivate arable land, which is irreversible, there must be a balance between national concerns and what is scarce in the individual cases in the municipality. So tell this case and many other things that there are going to be debates about this both in the Central Party and in the other Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e658	Then the oral question procedure is over. We're going to the ordinary Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e664	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 8, from the representative Bendiks H. Arnesen to the Minister of Defence, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister of Health and Welfare, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e678	My question to the Minister of Finance is this: «In the context of the review of the ethical guidelines of the State Pension Fund - Foreign Affairs, the Minister of Finance states to the Newspaper on 6 January: «This is not about what the company has done in the past, but about the danger that in the future companies will contribute to the violation of human rights.» The Ethics Council has previously concluded that it is impossible to document what individual companies will do in the future. [[SPU]] What changes to the mandate of the Ethics Council do the Council intend to propose that policy assumptions on future activities provide advice on extraction?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e687	The Ethics Guidelines for the Pension Fund were endorsed — finally — by an overall increase in November 2004. The guidelines include:\t\t You can change the settings of the grid. \t\t \t ‘The Fund shall not make investments which present an unacceptable risk of the Fund contributing to unethical actions’. Thus, ‘unacceptable risk’ of participation is very central to the ethical guidelines. The background for this is described in detail by both the Graver Committee, which is investigating the guidelines, and in documents for the Stortinget from both the previous and this government. So there's an obvious misunderstanding in the questioner's design of the question. That is how to assess an unacceptable risk of participation, which is the core task of the Ethics Council. It is not political assessments but risk assessments that form the basis. I'll go a little bit closer to how. It is important to note that companies are not excluded as punishment for what they have done in the past, but in relation to the assessment of the risk of participation in the future. But of course, a company's history in a field is a good clue to what will be future action, and that's part of the assessment made by the Ethics Council. It's very well documented in their recommendations, which are public. There you can review the assessments in the individual cases and what the Ethics Council has done. I could do one example. It is a recommendation that goes back as far as 2005, when the Ethics Council discussed the operation of the company Total in Burma and recommended that the company be not excluded from the fund’s investment universe. And they justify it, from that time on, as follows: ‘The guidelines state that companies should not initially be excluded in the light of past actions. There is a desire to avoid contributing to unethical actions in the present and future that are the reason for the exclusion of companies. The question in this case is therefore to what extent Total's previous action patterns can be expected to continue in the present and future.» So I have not introduced any new principle for assessing extractions. This has been at the heart of the Ethics Council's assessments all the way. I have described the system that has been practised all the way, and which the Storting has unanimously adopted. Furthermore, the system does not propose to carry out extracts based on political assumptions about the future business of a company. The Ethics Council is an independent council with professional expertise to assess the behaviour of companies now and in the future, looking up the criteria we have in the ethical guidelines. But of course it's not that the Ethics Council can pronounce 100 pst. safe about future behaviour. Therefore, a risk assessment has been carried out based on different factors, including the current behaviour of the company and, where appropriate, action that the company needs to take to address the problems in question. And as the representative Fleet is familiar with, it is that when the Ethics Council is in the process of concluding a case and e.g. approaching the conclusion of recommending extractions, a company is always contacted about the background of the extraction and can respond to what they will do in the future. This spring we will present to the Stortinget our conclusions on the evaluation we have carried out of the ethical guidelines. I can promise a thorough review of both the extraction mechanism, its basis and issues relating to the ethical guidelines more generally. I look forward to discussing this important issue, which also has a lot of international attention, in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e710	I am aware of the whole process and I agree with the Minister of Finance on how this works. Nor has there been any dissenting view on the definition of the ethical guidelines, the mandate or how this has been carried out. What's behind my question, which I also raised a week ago with the Minister of Finance, is that the Ethics Council has had these kinds of issues. In the same paper that I referred to, it is referred to a review of, in this case, an Israeli company. It is said that ‘there was no basis for withdrawing the investment, because it was not possible to prove that this company would do so in the future’. Now the Minister of Finance says, and to some extent correctly, how to evaluate this. But does not the Minister of Finance still think that this is a ambiguity? So if you record these kinds of perceptions, the Ethics Council has said that it's not possible for us to recommend anything based on what you think is going to happen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e717	No, this is a fundamental misunderstanding of what the Ethics Council's work is. The essence of the Ethics Council’s activities is to assess the risk of interference with ethical guidelines. It's just the weighting they're going through on a case-by-case basis. It is not the case that the Ethics Council is required to prove that a company will not commit an infringement of, for example: human rights, which are relevant to the companies active in Israel and in Palestinian territories. We're not in the discussion of evidence and not evidence. We are in the discussion about assessing the risk of participation. Then there is the previous behaviour and the company itself answers, which is the basis for the evaluations made by the Ethics Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e724	I think there's nuances in this. One might say, as the Minister of Finance has now said on a number of occasions, that this is based on my obvious misunderstanding. Does the Minister of Finance think that it is so obvious – to put it that way – that there is no need to clean up the way the Ethics Council looks at it, and perhaps also how the environment feels? Because it's very important that the environment, the audience, has a perception that companies are being judged fairly in such a context, and that this is not just based on suspicions and assumptions. That's what was in my question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e729	It's an obvious misunderstanding when the representative Fleet talks like the Ethics Council's job is to prove how a company is going to behave in the future. It is also a completely unreasonable view of the conclusions reached by the Ethics Council, and the advice they have given to me so far, and which I have followed, that there should be some discussion as to whether one is not able to do this on a reasonably similar basis for all companies. But when the Ethics Council's job is to assess the risk of contributing to the violation of human rights, there is, of course, a room for judgement in relation to how to evaluate different companies and different responses that companies come with. It may well be that that space of discretion will be a theme for the matter with which I will come to Stortinget during the spring. But the principle that there is an assessment of the risk of participation, I think we are very good at having.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e742	With the President's permission, I wish the Council a good new year! The question is as follows: «In April 2007, Møreforskning submitted a report on free travel. The 2008 State budget states: ‘With a background in particular: the cost aspects, the government has continued the question of whether, if so. free vacations for review. The Ministry of Transport will come back to the case when it is further clarified.’ The 2009 State Budget does not mention the matter. Has the Government given up the free national travel project?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e753	In the report from Møreforsking, to which the representative refers, there are several models for free ferry services. The models vary from free of charge on all connections to free of charge on the least trafficked and longest connections. More research indicates that free ferries will provide additional costs for the country both as a result of lost ticket receipts and as a result of the need for more capacity deployment because free ferry will provide more passengers. More research estimates that the state contribution to the ferry sector had to increase by over 1.7 billion in 2006 if one made all connections free of charge. Convert to 2009 kr. corresponds to this estimate of NOK 2 billion. More research recommended that a free ferry try to gain experience. In the next budget, I will review the trial project with free ferries. Within the framework of consultation, the Government has given priority to increasing the discount rates on zoning cards and value cards, starting at 40 pst. to 45 pst. from 1 May 2006 and later from 45 pst. to 50 pst. from 1 May 2008. This increase will benefit the travelers who use ferry the most. This government has invested in the ferry sector. Much effort has been made to adapt frequency and capacity in line with local preferences and needs. The government has spent close to DKK 1 billion in addition to the framework laid down in the National Transport Plan, where the growth of traffic, as otherwise in that document, is underestimated. In the previous election campaign, it had a government party, the Center Party, free ferry as a campaign cause. It's stuck in the Center Party program. In the government's basis, it is said that we should have a free ferry service and consider any trial project with a free ferry. Sorry, that work is not finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e764	I thank you for your answer. It is quite right, as the Council of State says, that the Soria Moria Declaration states as follows: ‘The government will improve the discount schemes and determine whether some sections can be made free of charge.’ But we have to go back to April 2007, when we got the report on the free trips. There's still one problem to be solved. There's nothing in the 2009 state budget. I understand that here we may have got a clarification from the Council of State that you have not given up, but still want to work on the project. What is it that takes so long that it goes from the mid-2007 to the long-term, probably, budget year 2009 before the possibility of launching a free-of-charge trial scheme?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e774	The word is "priority". In the current year’s budget, the Government has prioritised a strong increase in road and rail transport – far beyond what is in the national transport plan, and probably far beyond what many had expected the Government to invest in this period. When a priority is given to one, a point becomes a non-priority point. So it's just about priority. At the next state budget, the cards will be restated and the priority will be re-assessed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e779	It is equally full that there is no clear marking and priority in the Government’s 2009 government budget that shows that such a scheme will come about. Not even a pilot project has been shown to be a priority. The Soria Moria statement connects the discount scheme and the question of some sections can be made free of charge. Now Norway is holding its breath and waiting for the Government’s package of measures to come in a few weeks. Would it be considered as part of such a package of measures to reduce costs and increase the competitiveness of firms struggling in a difficult market? Will there be anything the Government can watch, related to a package of measures that is being processed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e788	In the package of measures to be presented by the Government, there are two concerns that have been clearly communicated — perhaps three. In any case, the two overriding considerations are that there should be measures that bring employment gains and that there should be temporary measures. In addition, all measures shall be in line with the Government's environmental and distribution policy. That's the three things I want to do first. If the measures mentioned by the representative will be covered by the criteria listed below, then there will be an assessment case and in any case not one that I can comment on here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e796	‘In order to increase road-to-rail traffic, it is important to strengthen rail competitiveness. It will contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions and improving the local environment. The first meeting of customers with the railway is the station areas. Unfortunately, a number of stations are characterized by decay, tagging and poor cleaning. What measures will the Council of State take to upgrade station areas, making it more attractive to choose trains as a means of entry?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e803	As the representative will be aware, the 2009 State budget contains a monthly increase in the commitments for operation, maintenance and investment in rail. The licenses for investment in stations and hubs increase by 15 pst. in relation to 2008. It will also be possible to provide for measures to improve standards and standards at stations. There are major challenges after many years of lower vows. In the short term, priority will be given to the continuation and completion of reconstruction measures at Verdal station and Nydalen holding site. Furthermore, the extension of a number of platforms to improve security will be a priority. Another important area is measures to keep station areas clean and tidy. In order to improve the efficiency of the recovery after the decay and aggravation, the Railway Agency has seen changes in the operation of the station so that the operation of the public areas is more targeted and followed up more closely. The scheme is currently in place in the Oslo area. Together with NSB's subsidiary ROM Eiendom, the Railway Agency works to get good stations and hubs. Their projects for conversion and new construction focus on safety and accessible stations, on the principle of universal design. Particularly important is the physical design of access to station and trains and the availability of traffic information in a non-discriminatory manner, e.g.: better monitors and public address systems. Through concentrated work, all groups of road users will be able to participate in the collective transport services. The Government will provide closer support for the objectives and strategy for achieving the universal design of stations in the General Communication on the National Transport Plan for 2010–2019.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e812	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In these times, with constant delays in train traffic, the train stations are actually very important in winter cold. Of course, the most important thing is that the trains go, but we are still told that it is the previous government that is responsible for not being so. That is why I am very pleased that the LO is now very offensive, and that the government party representatives are impatient on behalf of the train commuters as well. Can we expect this type of upgrading of train stations to be included in the crisis package coming on 26 January, which has employment gains, as the Council of State said instead, and is a temporary measure?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e821	I can report to Stortinget that no one is more impatient to see the result of the great investment of economic resources on the railway that has been made than the Council of State, and no one is waiting for the results to come quickly. When it comes to the package of measures, measures at the stations, as my response indicates, are a priority area for the Government, and an increased effort on it is necessary irrespective of the permissions of the forthcoming package of measures. I cannot promise concrete actions or what comes out of the content of that package of measures. It is in the nature of the matter that it is under work and is presented on 26 January of this year, so we have to come back to it. But station and hub work is an important and priority area for the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e828	I thank again the Council of State for the answer and for the fact that there are some who are impatient on behalf of the railway. I have many examples of poorly maintained stations that are also inconvenient for pushchairs and disabled people, because the ramps are simply worn out or ramponed. There are stations on the west corridor, and there are stations on the Kongswingerbahn. I am aware that both the NSB and the Railway Agency can exert influence – NSB through ROM Property, as was said here instead, and the Railway Agency by having lease agreements with the NSB at the stations. Will the Council of State address this issue with the NSB and the Railway Agency when she is in contact with them?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e835	This is not a new area. It's an area where it has ours and is huge challenges. And as the representative Tende says, the satiations are torn down, they've been torn down for years. And then I'm not going to point out any more than others in terms of responsibility, because I think we're going to share that. But they've been torn down through years of neglect, we may well be a few at least. In the meetings I have with the Railway Agency and the NSB, this has been thematic. It is addressed through the dialogue that the Ministry has both formally and informally with the NSB and the Railway Agency. Obviously, ROM Property plays an important role in developing the stations into something more than just what we might think of as a traditional station, but also get other activities that make the station areas even more attractive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e845	With the President's permission, I would like to wish the Council of State a good new year, and then I would like to ask the Council of State the following questions: ‘Hedmark is the county which has the most fatal accidents on our roads, now at the latest along rv. 3 by Alvdal, where unfortunately 3 lives were lost. In addition, there are a lot of other serious accidents that could have been avoided if, among other things. The road standard would have been better. What will the Council of State do to reduce the number of accidents significantly, except to reduce the speed limits, as proposed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e854	With the President's permission, I would also like to thank both the representative of Bredvold and all the other big business representatives for a good new year and to make a wish for good and constructive cooperation for the good of the country. I look very seriously at the many serious traffic accidents in 2008. In Hedmark, in 2008 there was an increase in the number of fatal cases and personal injuries were compensated by the average between 2004 and 2007. At the same time, I am satisfied that the number of people killed in traffic has progressed positively in recent years, despite the fact that traffic has increased sharply. This shows that the focus on a wide range of actions results. In the 2009 budget, the Government achieved a significant increase in the path to better road safety through a dedicated package of composite and targeted measures for infrastructure, road and rail investment and operation and maintenance. The funds for specific road safety measures have been almost doubled in 2008. In line with the zero vision, the State Road Service is giving priority to measures aimed at the most serious accidents, such as meeting accidents, run-out accidents, and accidents involving the launch of walking and incubators. In addition, the State Road Service will give priority to measures aimed at speeding up and, in particular, disembarking road users. Examples of this are control and campaign activities directed at young people and control measures against heavy transport, not least to ensure that trucks have a deck equipment that suits Norwegian winter roads. In Hedmark, a number of measures to increase road safety will be implemented in 2009. Meeting bells are also a major problem here, and of concrete measures aimed at net this type of accident, I will mention the launch of the setup of 9,5 km of E6 mid pull between Brumunddal and Moelv, the completion of the interlocking lockfield and the centremarking of E6 in the county, and not least the completion of the construction of the four-field section on E6 between Creatorud and Colomoen. On rv. 3 will continue the width extension. In addition, the operational standard before operation and maintenance is modified in new contracts to better adapt winter operations to changes in traffic and climate. Rv. 3 in the Østerdalen is one of the sections where the establishment of the route ATK has been assessed in 2009. We don't get to realize that speed is actually a determining factor when it comes to the fight against clocks. Road safety work is, and must be, widespread and based on good cooperation between several actors, local and national. In this context, I would like to present the municipality of Ringzag, where a specific road safety project has been launched specifically aimed at young people. The aim is to reduce the number of road accidents with fatalities and heavy damage in the municipality through a range of different measures. The Swedish Road Administration is responsible for the coordination and lease of the project, which is carried out in cooperation with the municipality of Ringsaker, the police, Safe Traffic and Hedmark Road Safety Selection. Such local initiatives are important contributions to safer traffic throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e871	I thank the Council of State for the answer, in which it was a bit positive, but there is a lot of control and speed. The IP has increased the number of checks in 2008 by 10 pst., and there has been a lot of focus on speed. But the government said relatively little about maintenance, lags on maintenance and lags on investments. I think the Council of State should also be involved and intervene in the case of trasés, where different associations are now anchoring. In the Glåmdalen newspaper we can read about Rv no later than today. 2, which is anchored by 19 persons. It is clear that it is not good that we take so long to choose a trajectory. This must be determined more quickly. The same applies to E6. I hope that the Council of State will intervene there, so that we do not get a stop to the good job done on the E6 because one does not agree on the trajectory. Can the State Council say anything about the trasé elections on Rv. 2 and E6?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e878	When it comes to the appeals, they're in the hands of another state council. That's why it's problematic for me to go into them so much directly. But on a general basis, I agree that it is important to make the planning processes slip well, so that projects are not withdrawn in time. When it comes to E6, it is primarily about getting a coherent development, which is important in this project. Rv. 2 has had quite a long seagoing time because one on the basic area has not come to an agreement locally. For this reason, I would like to stress once again the need for good local processes, because where one makes the local clarifications, where the local processes are good, the processes further in the system will usually be better. So there is a responsibility here both locally and centrally to put all the forces in the clarifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e883	On the previous question, the council said that she was very busy with the railway, and that is good. But I assume that the Council of State is also very concerned with our road network. For example: Hedmark, which does not have the means to carry goods either by air or by sea, is very important. My question will then be: how important does the Council of State think that the road network, for example. in Hedmark is, and how much money will it be for transportation, and specifically for Hedmark, in the package that comes on 26 January? Because it's clear that we need money. There's a big lag in maintenance, and there's a huge lag in investment. There's a lot of accidents. Hedmark is the country with the most killed in traffic. We have a lot of serious accidents, we have a lot of smaller accidents, and we need money for maintenance and investment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e888	The question about what comes in the 26th package, I've already been given several times before today. My answer must unfortunately be the same: that answer is not received in the hall today. There's one coming back to the 26. To the question of maintenance delays and needs: there is an enormous need for the road network throughout the country. That's well documented. Fortunately, we now have a government that has increased the permissions in a completely different way than we have seen before. The government has also informed us that we should continue to do so. It will benefit both Hedmark and the whole country, for the road network is the bloodstream throughout the transport system. It's everywhere, from the smallest place to the largest city in all the counties, in all the villages, in all the cities, and it binds our country together. The railway is very important for relieving the road network and for environmentally friendly transport, but it is clear that our road network is essential for our country to function.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e898	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘On 3 out of 4 days in the first working week of the new year, there have been major problems in train traffic in the Oslo area in the morning. When the Director of the Railway Agency commented on this on 7 January, she said that the work to prevent defects and delays would take several years. The budget allocated in June 2008 for the maintenance of the railway station in the Oslo area to improve the situation as quickly as possible. What will the Council of State do to ensure that train passengers in the Eastern region will not experience chaos for years to come?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e907	As I have previously stated both in the Storting and in other forums, I am not satisfied with the developments in terms of punctuality and regularity in train traffic. Not least this applies to train traffic in the Oslo area. This development is unfortunate, and it weakens the confidence of the train. The worn-out bulwark and old signalling and securing systems that should have been replaced a long time ago are largely responsible for this. At the top, in recent years, there has been a great increase in traffic — which is very desirable — with a very high rate of rail capacity utilisation, while at the same time there has been a recovery work in the Oslo tunnel and a large amount of work in the West Corridor. The large amount of traffic, especially in rush traffic, makes the consequences of faults occurring extra large in the Oslo area. In addition to an extra 100 million. In 2008 EUR 220 million has been raised in the 2009 budget. kr for the continuation of the repair work currently under way in the Oslo tunnel. This repair will have a positive effect on train running as it is completed. In addition to the tunnel itself, it is also necessary to carry out major renewals of the route between Subway and Lysaker, which is part of what we call the Oslo project. The Railway Agency is now working on a main plan for this extensive renewal work, to which I will return in connection with the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. As I said, the operational stability of train traffic will be improved as soon as the resolution of the Oslo tunnel is completed, but the major change will only come when the entire Oslo project, together with the work on the West Corridor, is completed as planned in 2011. This is a work that has a big focus on the Minister of Transport and the Government. It's the hub of railway traffic we're talking about here. I follow this work closely, and I will do everything I can to get the traffic on the rails, literally.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e916	I thank the Council of State for a good answer. We tend to have good New Year's plans, and in that way there was a bad start, which is certainly what the Council of State agrees with, with these settings three out of four days in the first week of the New Year. What I'm concerned about, when the Director of the Railway Agency stresses that it will take years to bring about an upgrade that will really prevent the big settings and problems, is that it is important to combine the upgrade with a very high pressure on the daily maintenance. It is obvious that for such things as signal failures, overhead lines falling down, and rigid frozen cables, it is difficult for train passengers to understand that there is no better follow-up at such exposed points and greater pressure and vigilance than to follow from day to day on points in the network where it clicks. So it's a good answer to say that it will take years, but I'm busy asking the council if she feels that there's enough pressure on the daily follow-up of the exposed points.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e921	The question that the representative is now addressing has been discussed in discussions with the Railway Agency. What has been shown when a person has entered the Oslo Tunnel, which is the most difficult point here, is that one by one, as one goes in and begins to work, sees a greater lack than what one saw leading up ahead. It once again shows that it's only now that this government has taken over that one really goes into this matter. So one from the opposition's side can say that we're pointing back. I should not have done that, but it is clear that here has a cover that even in the daily maintenance, there have been so many neglects that there are errors in places where one simply did not think that errors should occur. It's easy to get the same thing that happens on the rake, so the race goes where you don't think it's coming. It's one of the same experiences in the railway area. But one focuses a lot on this, and there are funds put at the disposal of the Railway Agency – what one has desired – in the budget to also focus on the daily maintenance to a greater extent than before.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e926	I'm happy about that, and I'm glad that the Council of State is so committed to it. Some of these faults that have now occurred in the new year, for example, have been overhead lines, frozen overhead line or cable at Lillestrøm, it has happened outside Kolbotn – it has also been on the net elsewhere than in the Oslo tunnel itself. It's hard to understand that you don't, for example. is used to cold temperatures and that cables can freeze etc., and that you don't have a setup to ensure such things. So what I'm asking is, if there had been a thought, when we see the pressure on ongoing maintenance -- it's underlined by the Council of State, as I know, at several meetings, so-called calls on the carpet, in the last few years -- to look at several measures in relation to increasing pressure, for example. an independent evaluation of the railway works’ ongoing maintenance procedures and see if there is good enough quality at the present time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e931	To get maximum pressure on the work in the Oslo area, a dedicated working group has been set up. To the meetings to which the representative refers: it has not been called on the carpet, it has simply for mutual information exchange and to update the Council of State on the stand. But it's easy to get this kind of an angle in the media -- I see it. I have not seen the need for an evaluation of working methods, but as the representative takes this up here in Stortinget, I will take a review from the department's side to see if there is anything that can be done to work smarter or in other ways with the daily maintenance in order to prevent what we have unfortunately seen too much now after New Year's.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e941	My question to the Minister for Transport is as follows: ‘The ‘Vossapackakten’ is a high priority project in Hordaland with large local participation through, among others. user financing. The project is declared ready for the realisation of the parties involved. What is the reason why the Government in these times of crisis does not promote the issue of the «Vossapacken» for Stortinget?»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e950	I refer to my answer of 21 November 2008 to question No. 261 by Mr Halleraker on progress in this matter. I then replied that the quality assurance had not been completed, but that of course I wanted to report the matter to Stortinget as soon as it was done. I stand by this, and in order to be more concrete: I aim to bring the matter before the Stortinge in the spring session.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e955	I thank you for the answer, which was quite short. What is strange in this case is that the Road Directorate signals to partners such as municipalities and county municipalities that everything is clear, and that there is no need for clarification with regard to tolling devices and, where appropriate, possible measures to improve performance. In a situation where the country should be vacuumed for ready-to-construct projects, it is precisely to get such ready-to-cooking issues as this one quickly to clarify, which should be given priority. So then maybe my short question becomes to the Council of State: Is the Council of State satisfied with the pace of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e962	The answer to that question is no, and as a follow-up to that question, I can say that the Road Administration, the Road Directorate, is invited to a meeting in my office to clarify the progress and get the case on track. So the Council of State is impatient to present this matter, and I'm going to have a big focus on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e967	That was a positive answer. I also want to focus on a different relationship. E16 is one of our major eastern–west tribal roads, which are also involved in the Vossa package. Voss centre is loaded with heavy traffic. Unfortunately, there was also a fatal accident that occurred during the harvest, in unbridled and narrow streets. So both the tunnel behind Vassevangen and the repair of the road down Schirvet will be important to get in place before Hardangerbrua is finished. Is the Council of State concerned that the relationship between these two major projects is important, and will she do what is in her power to exploit the synergy of these two projects?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e976	There's no doubt that this is a context that is important to focus on. But the most important thing about Vossapak is that the expansion will remove one of the worst tribal routes we have in this country. The situation in Voss Center is unsustainable, and it's urgent to do something before there are several serious accidents. So what I want to focus most on is getting the project moving forward and getting rid of these hopeless distances with a new, good and safe path. Then, of course, there is a connection, as the representative picks up, to the second large project. It is there naturally and will fall naturally when we only realize the project.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e984	‘It is a pleasant development that more and more people choose to commute by train. Unfortunately, many day commuters feel that trains are not coming and going when they are going to. Is it a measure for the Council of State that trains come and go when specified in the timetable?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e991	On this question I could have given a very brief answer – and only said yes. But I'm going to say a little more with respect for both the representative and for the Stortinget. Of course, it is a basic characteristic of a good train offer that trains come and go as advertised in the timetable. As I said in my answer to the question from the representative, Bøhler, I am not satisfied with the developments we have had in recent years in relation to delays in train traffic. This development is negative, and it weakens the confidence of the train. I can assure the representative Holten Hemdal that getting a more punctual train traffic is an important goal for me. As an overarching goal towards the Railway Agency, it is required that at least 90 pst. of all trains must be on route to the end station. For local trains, the Fly train and the regional train in the intercity triangle Skien-Halden-Lillehammer, the train is considered to be late when they arrive more than four minutes late until the end station. For other regional trains, for long-distance and freight traffic, the limit is set to six minutes. This target has been found to be more difficult to achieve for most train sections in the last few years. As mentioned in my answer to questions from the representative, Bøhler, the main reason for this is that the railway works on many lines wear out with an old and worn-out railway infrastructure where there is a need for more extensive renewals than what we have done over many years. This is not least the case in the Oslo area, which is the hub of the Norwegian network and which is most important for keeping the timetable for most trains. The most important thing this government can do in this context is to propose extra permissions for the maintenance and renewal of the network. The total over the period 2006-2009, around DKK 1.1 billion has been granted under this government for operations and maintenance than previously foreseen for the 2006-2009 planning period, while the total commitment to the Railway Agency, including investments, is EUR 615 million. kr higher than the size decided in connection with the national transport plan for the period 2006-2009. Even if we have made good progress in upgrading the network, there is still much work to be done to achieve the objective of a more operationally stable train traffic, while at the same time increasing the capacity of the network to transfer more traffic from road to rail. This is an important work that the Government will return to in connection with the National Transport Plan for 2010–2019. The joy in the situation we're in is that many more well to use railway. The problem is that there is additional pressure on a broken network. So it's urgent to move on. We're getting started, but, as I said, here it says that very much important work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1004	I thank you for your answer. I think it is reassuring that the Minister for Transport, who could have given a short answer, chooses to give a slightly more thorough answer, and that you are concerned that the train should be precise – there are many train commuters who do not experience it in their everyday lives. In the Newspaper on January 3rd, we can read that trains 156 to go from Knapstad station 06.43 have not been accurate since February 2007 – and that is a while ago. Around 40 commuters have been waiting for a total of 24 hours in 2008 at the railway station. It is the case that the eastern line has a remote control, and therefore it has to be crossed at controlled stations. These commuters simply want a timetable that tells us that the train is coming when it comes. You're willing to change the table so that the train comes when it comes, and not as it is today, that it comes at times it's not going to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1013	I hope the train comes when it comes. What's the goal is that it comes when it's on the schedule that it's going to come. It's clearly a challenge. What I believe the representative says is that one should consider changing the timetable in relation to what one sees a thing to deliver. It's a good and constructive recording. I think the NSB should consider whether changes should be made, because I understand the irritation and frustration of people when they have to stand in the winter darkness and the cold and wait for a train that doesn't come when it's advertised. So it's a play to consider. So, of course, it's so that everything is related to everything. In the Oslo area, the routes are so dense and the train goes so often that starting to change at an end, often will lead to a domino effect throughout the system. So if the possibility is there to make big changes, I can't answer right now, but at least it's a constructive input.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1020	I am pleased with the signals that the Council of State is now coming along with. It is clear that everything is related to everything, but asking the NSB to consider a change in this timetable is possible. There are waiting rooms at the station before and the station after, and the buffer being inserted should be inserted there, so that these 35-40 commuters do not stand out in any kind of weather. They say they're fine about spring and summer, but it's a little immaterial when the weather isn't quite good. If we want to get more on trains, the best PR is that we have satisfied customers. We need more commuters on trains in view of the climate challenges we face. It is an important part of the climate agreement, as in particular. The Christian People's Party joined forces with the Government two years ago. Is it so that the Council of State will follow up this matter with the NSB?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1027	I feel that both the Christian People's Party and the representative are constructively engaged in doing something positive for the train commuters. It's an absolute goal that I share. I'll take with me the proposal that came here today, and I'll check with the NSB if the possibilities are there. I cannot promise a positive response, but I can promise that I will take it up. So we'll come back in the right way when the answer comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1042	This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1048	I allow myself to ask the Minister for the Environment and Development the following questions: «Celsa Reinforcement Steel has recently invested significant amounts of new environmental technologies, which deliver significant environmental benefits. At the same time, new technologies provide a certain increase in capacity which could lead to an increase in CO2 emissions. Will the total greenhouse gas emissions be affected by the extension of the quota reserve for high-efficiency thermal power plants so that new installations in the process industry can also have access to free allowances during the current quota period, provided that the increase is covered by reduced sales by the country?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1060	I thank you for the question, which is very important to people in Helgeland. Society faces major climate challenges. The government's starting point for the introduction of a greenhouse gas emission allowance system has been the desire to turn society in a more environmentally friendly direction. A part of this work is to make pollution less profitable. Contaminated by the Paying Principle, the costs of implementing the necessary environmental policy conversion in Norway should be borne by the polluting establishments. This is the background for the government not wanting to allocate free allowances from a general allowance reserve. Such free allowances will help to stimulate investment in activities with significant greenhouse gas emissions. In addition, it costs society something to allocate free allowances. The more free allowances it gives to polluting enterprises, the greater the burden must be borne by people most or by non-polluting businesses. That being said, it is true that the amount of a set-aside allowance initially has nothing to say about the overall level of emissions within the EU ETS. The assumption is that the total quantity of allowances allocated will not be changed. If increased free allocation is matched by reduced sales of allowances, the total emissions within the EU ETS will not be affected. I also point out that the Government's proposal for changes to the climate quota law is now being discussed in the Energy and Environment Committee. In this connection, I have received a number of questions from the Committee, including: concerning Celsa and the establishment of a general quota reserve. I will of course answer these questions and come back to all aspects of this in this connection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1073	I thank the Council of State for the answer, which was really very clear. The Council of State confirmed that a reduction in the sale of State allowances would mean that a total increase in emissions would not be achieved if, like all other countries in Europe, a reserve quota was set. This means that the Council of State indirectly opens up in many ways so that a quota reserve can also be set up in Norway to do the opposite of what the Council of State has to do, namely to promote a few of the companies in Norway that are affected, the closure of which will result in an increase in climate emissions — companies that have invested a great deal of money in environmental technology. At the same time, there is a follow-up question to the Council of States — if he opens up a Norwegian quota reserve, in the same way as all other countries in Europe.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1080	The Celsa case is a very special case, because Celsa has made an investment of 300 million. kr – I think it is – in environmental measures, for which we are all happy, and which is a great positive event, among other things. to reduce mercury emissions. So that's a special case. But what's hard for Norway to do is to specialise or tailor a system to solve the Celsa issue in a general quota system. There is every reason to believe that ESA will not accept, cf. the dialogue we've had with ESA for a long time, which is also one of the reasons why it's taken time to put the entire quota reserve in place. So we have to see if there are other ways to give some kind of support or assistance to Celsa. But we do not get away with the polluter-pays principle that those who pollute should pay, and therefore the allowances should be sold, and that at the moment you release allowances free of charge, it is not free, as some have easily believed. It is in reality only to transfer the bill from polluting activities to either non-polluting activities or to the general man and woman.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1085	I thank you again for the answer, which I think is positive for the possibility of opening up an allowance reserve that should not lead to an increase in total CO2 emissions. I also fully agree with the Council of State that the polluter-pays principle applies, but there must be the same rules in a common competition market. I also perceive the answer so that the Council of State takes on board that here we have to find solutions just for Celsa. Of course, no one is asking for a special solution for a single company. I assume that the Council of State fully agrees that if we do not have a solution specifically for Celsa Arming Steel, one can almost predict that there will be a new appeal to ESA, an appeal that is almost as predictable that the state will lose and the company can win. Does the Council of State see the disadvantages that this can lead to for Norwegian climate policy and for the entire Norwegian industry as a whole?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1097	I will not at all foreshadow what will happen further in this matter, whether what the Government will do or – and much less – what will come of anchors around any treatment in the EU system. I would just like to point out that there are a number of questions that will be answered in this area and there will be a good opportunity for dialogue with the Environment and Energy Committee in this area in the near future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1108	My question goes to the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘During the period 2004-2008, heavy metal pollution from the Nikel plant in eastern Finland has doubled five times over the previous 15 years, according to measurements by the SFT. The situation is very worrying. What will the Council of State now do to increase the pressure to reduce these emissions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1117	Let me first say that I very much appreciate the fact that the representative Lightcloth brings up this incredibly important matter. It is very worrying what is being pointed out here, namely that there has been a five-fold increase in emissions. It is also very good that the Stortinget follows closely the development of the modernisation project at the nickel works in Petshenga in Kola, thus helping to keep up the political pressure in the matter. I also refer to the answer I gave to written questions about the matter on 11 June last year. More detail has also been given on the status of the matter in the 2009 budget proposal. The agreements concluded in 2001 were aimed at reducing emissions of sulphur dioxide and heavy metal dust from the nickel works in Zapolyarny and Nikel to levels which ensured health and which nature on both sides of the border could withstand. The assumption now is that the environmental objectives of 90 pst were set. reductions in emissions shall be achieved in 2010. Ownership changes in the company, time-consuming investigation of various technical solutions and strategic assessments of the future structure of the nickel industry in Kola have led to the project being postponed and can hardly be carried out within the deadline. Therefore, the environmental benefit of the Norwegian-supported modernisation project does not appear to be realised. The Noril Nikel Group has decided to build the briquetting plant in Zapolyarny, but there is no formal decision on what to do with the Nikel melting plant. The environmental impact of alternative solutions is unclear, although representatives of the company assure that the alternative solutions will meet the Norwegian environmental requirements. Meanwhile, emissions of sulphur have decreased, while the fall in heavy metals from the coal establishments has increased significantly. I agree with the representative of Vera Lyskleätt that this is very worrying and, of course, contrary to Norwegian interests. These developments have been known for some time, and the Norwegian authorities have repeatedly addressed the problem with the Russian authorities, both by letter and in several political meetings, at the last meeting of the Norwegian-Russian Environment Commission last month. It is natural that the increased fall of heavy metals over East Finland is disturbing the population. The county of Finnmark has therefore organised a public meeting on the situation. Dietary advice is provided, including: as regards the consumption of reindeer meat and extended testing of berries and meat for heavy metals and other environmental contaminants shall be initiated. It is the Norwegian Nikel Group and the Russian authorities that are responsible for reducing emissions from the nickel works in Kola to a level that humans and the environment can withstand. On our side, we have strengthened environmental monitoring in the border regions of 2008. This year the escalation continues, with the establishment of new air measuring stations for measurement, inter alia. of heavy metals, and includes enhanced cooperation with the Russian authorities. This will provide us with a better basis for continuing pressure on the company and the Russian authorities, so that the final result can be satisfactory also for Norwegian interests. Let me also say that it does not hurt at all – on the contrary – that these matters are brought up in Stortinget. It is precisely contributing to the pressure that must be exerted against the Russian authorities and the company in order to improve this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1136	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I have the following follow-up questions: People in East Finland in general, in South Varanger and in Pasvikdalen in particular, are concerned. I hope the Minister for the Environment understands that. It is for the sake of those I raised this matter, both in June last year and now again today, as we have recently received new information on dramatic emissions increases. Heavy metals can be very harmful to human health and concentrations tend to increase in the food chain. How does the Minister for the Environment feel that the population living in this part of Finnmark, which has a high level of pollution, should be able to absorb, for example, reindeer meat, berries and fish, which today is an important part of the diet of everyone living here?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1145	There are two different ways to tackle this problem. One is what we can do with unilateral action on the Norwegian side, i.e. make measurements, monitor the situation and provide dietary advice. The strong recommendation to people in the area where this falls is to follow the dietary councils provided by the Norwegian authorities. They are based on professional assessments and not on political views of the Minister for the Environment. The strong recommendation is to follow the advice given. We will ensure that best information is available, that measurements are made and that people are given up-to-date advice. In addition, we need to increase the pressure on Russian authorities to prevent this downfall. So we have to work on two things at the same time – both with what we can do in Norway and with an increased political pressure on Russia.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1152	I also thank you for this answer. I have one last follow-up question. In a year's time for the Nikel plant to take advantage of the 270 million. kr granted by Norway in 1990, which was to be used for the cleaning of this plant. This money is still unused. For years Norway has been trying to get the Russians to reduce pollution from the Nikel plant, but has not achieved it. What does the Council of State think is the reason? And what new steps will the Government take to find a solution?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1159	Of course, there is no denying that Russian business and Russian authorities are making commercial and political decisions based on their own interests or their own perception of the situation. These are opinions that we can very disagree with, and are, to a large extent, parallel to another matter in which the Left has also been involved, namely Sellafield. We had the leading expertise in Oslo yesterday. British authorities and commercial companies also make decisions that we disagree with. We are doing our utmost to influence both Russian and British authorities. There are not comparable situations, but decisions are taken that we do not agree with, and we do our utmost to influence them. We have also made substantial sums of money available to facilitate the situation in Russia, but the money is still unused. We have to look further at whether this money can be used or not. But we have no possibility of instruction, neither in Moscow, London, nor anywhere else.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1176	This question has been postponed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1182	I have the following questions for the Minister of Justice: ‘In Police Forum No: 12, 2008, there is an article on Norwegian police and the difficulties associated with cooperation with other countries’ police. There is a reference to a case the Danish police worked with, where the Norwegian police did not assist in a way that met their wishes. Among other things, the police director says: ‘It is very unfortunate if the lack of access to Spanish people leads to criminal relations not being followed up as they should.’ Does the Governing Council share the concern of the Director and what action should be taken to address the problem?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1191	The police directorate has been informed by the Oslo Police District that the presentation in the article in the Police Forum is not adequate for the situation. We've also experienced that before. After the Tullvesen on Svinesund had carried out checks on the trailer in question and did not find any drugs, the police had always been in control of the car’s movements. The Danish police were also kept informed. In the field of investigation, such as for other important police activities, the issue revolves around issues such as: on the availability of current personnel – and the police need more staff. One of the challenges here is, among other things: the strict requirements imposed by the Working Environment Act for working-free periods. For the category of police officers concerned, a separate special agreement on working time arrangements provides for a derogation from the general rule of the law of at least 11 hours of free work within 24 hours. These derogations provide for the possibility of employing overtime workers, provided that health, environmental and safety requirements are met, to a greater extent than if only the general rule of law had been applied. In addition, this is also about how the service is organised in the form of service lists and service arrangements, and it is about the availability of officials to carry out overtime work in the field of leisure. I share the police director's assessments in the article in the Police Forum. Like the police director, I assume that management and trade union in the relevant police districts and special bodies cooperate to find out arrangements that, within the current regulations, best meet the need for available personnel and competences. Furthermore, it is important that the provisions governing working time arrangements be kept under constant review and evaluated as a basis for any changes. I would also like to add that all the measures that are now being taken to increase police force are measures that will also help us to facilitate such advanced investigations, including: This is the basis for this question. There I would particularly like to point out the work that the Government is now doing with regard to both training more police officers and increasing police operating budgets, and not least with regard to the possibility of employing more civilians, so that we can get more police officers to do this type of business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1206	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Since the Council of State claimed that the article contains fundamental misinformation about what the police did in Norway, it is a bit tempting to refer to the Swedish State Police Commissioner, as the Council of State commented on this weekend, who, in my opinion, also points out – and as I see it as a parallel to what the article in the Police Forum at least claimed – that Norwegian police sometimes do not have the power to follow up enquiries from other countries' police. But I expect the Council of State can cancel it is the case that there are enquiries coming here that we are not able to follow up. I perceive that the Council of State has been a crusader in international police cooperation, because crime does not know national borders, and if we are to be able to fight this, we have to do it together. I see this as the ambitions of the Council of State in terms of the Prüm cooperation and other cooperation agreements, because we have to resolve this jointly. Can the State Council assure the undersigned and the Stortinget that we have enough resources to follow up the enquiries we receive from the police in other countries with which we cooperate?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1217	I think I want to say it that way that I can assure you that we are now doing everything we can to have sufficient staff and sufficient resources to do what we think is necessary to create the necessary security, not only in this area, but also in other areas. But it is quite obvious that international crime is widespread, and there may be many requests in which you cannot be bottom-up, precisely for capacity reasons. I think that we have to realize will be the situation not only in our country, but also in other countries in the future. That's why that's what the representative Jan Arild Ellingsen is addressing, important. We're totally dependent on thinking in paths other than just personnel and operating resources. There, the representative points in particular to the Prüm cooperation, where the Government has gained a political agreement and reached a very important agreement, in order to facilitate the use of less human resources for, among others, to find perpetrators of the international division of crime, such as: be carried out on Norwegian soil.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1222	I thank you again for the answer. There is no doubt that crime must be combated on more than one front. The police alone don't do the job. Here you have to think more broadly and work with more agencies than just the police. One of the important avenues is Customs, and some of the counties and police districts have border crossings as some of their challenges. In those cases, at least I have an experience that Customs generates a large part of the amount of work that the police have to follow up. I perceive that this is sometimes worrying for the police, because they don't know how much Customs is going to generate, and then they might have to prioritize those tasks over other things that they should have done. Does the Council of State realize that there is an opportunity to change some of the funding, so that you can actually have a system that pays more attention to combating crime? Today I see that sometimes the opposite is the result. So you get the burden of taking the case, rather than actually getting a positive touch if you fight crime better than what you do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1231	It could have been a pleasurable idea to go into effort-driven funding for the police, but I would strongly advise against it. What we do most when it comes to combating crime in Norway is precisely the crime that is heavily affected by darkness – violence in close relationships, organised crime and other types of crime – where police districts know that a lot of resources must always be spent to get a case up. With input-driven funding, I'm afraid darker numbers are increasing, that is. that we get a police who won't go after these things, because it'll pay to stand out in the streetscape and hang in all the visible crime that must be there, whether it's speed-trafficking or the day after-drivers with promille or whatever it might be. I still think it is important that we strengthen the police in general and enable them to take on the difficult crime as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1241	‘Russia and Ukraine are once again in conflict with gas supplies. Many European countries have become involuntary victims of this conflict of failing energy supply and uncertainty. Norway is a significant gas supplier and has large potential and productive resources. It gives us both opportunities and a responsibility in the situation that has arisen. What does the Government do to our European neighbours to strengthen Norway as an energy supplier and to help with overall energy supply, both in the short and long term?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1248	Norway is very important for EU security of supply and is now the second largest supplier of gas to the EU. My meetings include: The EU Commission is an important issue for our security of supply. It is a responsibility that the Government and I take very seriously, and we do what we can to ensure that Norway is a stable producer and exporter in the long term. The current conflict between Russia and Ukraine on gas supplies is very unfortunate and worrying in several ways. Firstly, this conflict affects a number of innocent people in Eastern Europe who, in the middle of winter, do not have access to gas. Secondly, this conflict could have negative consequences for gas as a safe and good source of energy, which could also affect Norway as a major exporter of gas. I do not want to be sidetracked by this very serious conflict. I understand that Russia wants to achieve a reasonable price for the gas they sell, and also for Ukraine to have a reasonable profit on the transport of Russian gas. However, the way in which this conflict is dealt with is very unfortunate. It is important that what is now done can be done too quickly to resume the full transport of gas from Russia to the countries of Europe. In the case of Norwegian gas production, Norway has produced the maximum of what we can produce throughout this crisis. On 6 January we had the largest export from Norwegian base ever. That day we exported 342 million standard cubic meters. Since then, production has been somewhat lower due to technical problems in some fields. However, it is also worth noting that, to the extent that we could do so beyond the peak we have now seen, increased Norwegian exports to the countries of reception in Northern Europe would not have helped many of the hardest hit, i.e. countries in Eastern Europe. The background for this is insufficiently developed pipeline networks and pipeline links between individual countries on the continent. This is why it is also a major challenge for countries in Europe to better link up their gas systems. In the short term, as mentioned above, there is little we can do to increase exports from the Norwegian base. However, we have high ambitions to increase production in the longer term. Last year we had an export of approx. 95 billion standard cubic meters per. years. Over the next decade, we can get a production of between 125 and 140 billion standard cubic meters. Combined with an active exploration policy that facilitates long-term gas production, it also contributes to the safety of supply and supply in total. During our Prime Minister’s visit to the Czech Republic, which currently presides in the EU, a request was made by the Czech Presidency of the Prime Minister that Norway participates in the Observer Corps to monitor the transport of Russian gas to the EU through Ukraine during the period until agreement was reached between Russia and Ukraine. Prime Minister Stoltenberg welcomed such participation, if desired by the EU and the parties to the conflict supported it. In view of this, Norway has nominated two Gassco experts to participate in the Observatory Corps. So far, these have not been asked by the European Commission to participate, first priority is given to Russian-speaking experts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1264	I thank you for the answer, which I think can be quite positive, but let me therefore ask the Council of State to clarify a few things. But first, I agree that we as a nation should not choose sides in this. At the same time, it is a fact that every time we have delegations from EU countries to Norway, Norwegian gas exports are one of the first, and most important, issues they address. In the short term, it's true that there's little we can contribute. Most of the gas production is in contracts, and there we can't scald and choose. At the same time, the EU's gas import needs today are approx. 54 pst., in 2030 it is expected to be 80 pst., i.e. a long-term very important theme in which what we are doing today will affect our ability to act and to construct it in the longer term. The signals that have come from the Government in this area have not been very positive in relation to active search for new gas resources, on the contrary, several of the red-green batches have said that they will try to stop this. Can the Council of States now confirm that one will have an offensive policy to ensure that Norway becomes a significantly larger gas exporter in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1273	What we have now done in concrete terms is we have started new rounds. We're both in the middle of the 20th concession round, and we also have a round of so-called TFO. When we do that, it's precisely because we want to both monitor and make use of the oil and gas resources available on the Norwegian base. I believe that while setting high environmental requirements and high requirements for the coexistence of fishing and oil activities, we should exploit the oil and gas resources we have in Norway. At the same time, we're going to work with CCS technology, so that we can also help reduce total emissions. But within such a framework, it is quite obvious that Norway has a role to play concretely in relation to what we are talking about now – gas supplies to Europe in the future, also beyond what we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1278	It's such an answer that makes me more unsure about how far we'll be able to play a role as a major gas exporter in the future. The fine headlines can all be behind, but in terms of the use of instruments to follow up the headlines, there is a lack. The Council of State takes up its own 20th round and the TFO 2008. It is not unique to this government that it implements concession rounds. That's what all governments do. What is unique to this government is that both parts are heavily exposed without justification. It's unique, because it hasn't been done by previous governments. What is also unique with this government is that it has not provided a single kerosene message during this ageing period, while it has been a tradition to have a kerosene message at least every two years, preferably every year at an early stage. This means that one cannot show that one will follow in practical work the direction Norway could take to increase its gas exports, especially in view of red-green politicians who will stop exploration. Can the Council confirm that the opposite will occur?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1287	I totally disagree with the conclusion that the Solvik-Olsen representative here draws from the policy that is being pursued, and what is said. When it comes to the message work and my thoughts about it, we have discussed it quite many times before in this room. As far as the 20th concession round is concerned, provided that I remember correctly, I believe that in my 14 first days as a government council I made sure to have that round published and available to the companies based on what they wanted to be on. So I can't with my best will understand that I could do anything more to get this quickly in place. I also believe that what is around the total of 20 concession rounds and TFO is a predictable policy that gives companies a good base to be on. There are opportunities for the future on a Norwegian base, it is communicated through the specific documents we present, and it is communicated by me in posts and I speak.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-14.ana.ud1186e1296	Thus, Stortinget has done the final work on today's map.
