ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e46	It is in the interest of democracy that participation in elections should be as high as possible. At the municipal and county elections in 2007, the election attendance was 61.2 pst. for the municipal elections, against 59 pst. in 2003, and 57.5 pst. for the county election, a progress of 1.9 pst. from previous elections. It was a pleasure that election attendance increased in 2007, but still we can't be satisfied as long as almost four out of ten sit at home at municipal elections. As you know, election participation is much better in decision making. In Ot.prp. No 32 encourages the Government to propose some changes to the electoral law and the municipal law. In summary, this proposal: establishing a system of pre-voting from 1 July of the year of the election to keep the polling room open until 1 p.m. 21 introduction of a criminal offence fee in the event of a violation of the electoral law permitting election observation two-day elections if one third of the municipal council requires the opening time of the electoral chamber if one third of the municipal council requires a rule of principle in the municipal law on public consultation The Committee points out in its examination that it is important not to introduce changes to the electoral law without a clear need to do so. Frequent legislative changes may cause problems for the selection implementation. Therefore, it is good that the ministry of this proposition itself considers it important to be restrained by such changes. However, only the suspicion that a change could lead to increased turnout should lead to a thorough assessment of whether such a change should be introduced. I am pleased that the Committee is essentially united in recommending the proposals of the Government, with the exception of the proposal on minority rights by decision on extended opening time and two-day elections. Here, the Right and Christian People's Party have a different vision and a different proposal. In addition, the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party have a special comment on the proposal for a preliminary vote. I expect representatives of these parties to explain this for themselves. I would nevertheless point out that a unanimous municipal and management committee during the examination of St.meld. No 33 for 2007-2008, A strong local democracy, supported the Government’s proposal to strengthen minority rights in terms of decision-making on extended opening time in the polling rooms and two-day elections. In the choice between basic democratic principles and the problem of a minority being able to impose a majority of costs, I am also of the opinion that the democratic principles must weigh more heavily. The majority believe that this scheme should be implemented from the forthcoming elections and that the deadline for decisions in the municipality should be 1 June 2009. The Committee agrees that the prohibition of publication of election day measurements or election results before the closure of the polling facilities should be maintained. It is still necessary to ensure that voters are not subjected to undue influence until the electoral action has taken place. In order for a prohibition to have a preventive effect, the Committee supports the granting of access to the person responsible for publishing a fee limited up to 28 G. Norwegian citizens who turn 18 during the electoral year have the right to vote, if they have ever been entered in the Norwegian population register as resident in Norway. This also applies to Nordics living abroad on the election day. According to the Tax Directorate 40 414, the number of persons resident in foreign countries entitled to vote who are automatically admitted to the number of persons this year is 40 414. No summary is available of the number of applicants. Voting abroad takes place at embassies, consulates and consulates around the world. In addition, the Ministry appoints voters from several other places. The Ministry sends a request to the U.D. in front of each election and asks for proposals for the appointment of the recipients of votes. The U.D. has a coordinating role in terms of proposals for voice recipients abroad. They have a better overview of where the Nordics are located abroad, and therefore where there is a need for special nominated voting recipients in places where there are no embassies, consulate-general or consulate-general. In front of each choice, we also receive some enquiries from various organisations asking for the appointment of voting recipients. The Ministry always appoints voters for such requests, as far as possible. voters who cannot reach an outside voice receiver have the possibility to cast a voice message without the presence of a voice receiver. This is also a more appropriate scheme in places where there are few Norwegian citizens. The voters must then make sure to send their voices to Norway. This means that voting reception abroad seems to be very well covered, and the majority of the committee supports that arrangement continuing. Finally, for the sake of order, I would like to ask the Council of State to confirm that the Department has secured the necessary powers in this proposition in order for the amendments to apply also to elections to the Sameting. I recommend the Stortinget to take decisions in line with the majority position of the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e89	The principle of secret elections is a fundamental principle of a democratic electoral system. It is important not to introduce changes to the electoral law without clearly needing it, and also to achieve continuity in the important work of improving the electoral law. If we want a greater turnout, we have to dry up some grip. It is in the interest of democracy that we should increase the turnout and that the turnout should be as high as possible. The Progress Party and the Christian People's Party made a comment in this case that we want to look at the Nordics who live abroad. The number of Norwegian nationals living abroad is estimated to be between 40000 and 50000. In previous elections, Norwegian foreign stations have published the department’s choice information and guidelines on their websites, but the upsurge does not seem to be good enough. That's why we should do something more. Other channels for information flows should be considered. Why not use the Sjömann Church – Norwegian Church abroad – which knows where the Nordics are and has a contact network? They have built up an information network/email addresses for Norwegian citizens in their geographical areas. I understand that the majority parties do not want to look at the possibility of using this partner. The organisation is willing to provide addresses and e-mail systems, provided that the department agrees. Therefore, I would like to ask the Council of State to facilitate the voluntary participation of Norwegian Church abroad in the distribution of the Ministry's information and guidelines. I'll ask you, why not? The Norwegian Church abroad can also act as a voice room, initially at the time of the rollover election in 2009, possibly as a probationary mechanism. Other measures are, for example: two-day selection. There I will show that it must be up to each municipality whether there are measures that they should consider. Another measure may be something the Progress Party has proposed in the past – we have asked the Government to launch a pilot project, and it has said that it will – to use voice over the Internet and SMS to reach a user group such as youth. We don't see much of that either. We must be humble in terms of the electoral law and our order. We send election observers around the world to see how the elections are going on there, and we have a lot of opinions about it. Although Norway plays an active role in the Organisation for Security and Cooperation in Europe — the OSCE — we need to facilitate the provision of information to electoral observers from abroad and to see what they think is important, and to facilitate it by municipalities. The system of folding ballots ensures that the requirement for secret elections is met, and I think that is good. It seems to be a good arrangement. It is also essential that the local electoral authority facilitates matters so that voting becomes secret. I would like to stress that it is important that municipalities organise the electoral process so that there is no doubt that everything is going on in accordance with laws and regulations, and that specific measures are being put in place to ensure the proper training of electoral officials. Although I believe that many municipalities have been good with training until today, we should nevertheless focus on this. We have to bring down the error rate, we have to get our choice as flawlessly as possible. Local referenda is something the Progress Party has been irritating for too long, and we believe that it should be used more often. The individual municipality must decide whether or not to hold such an advisory vote. There are long traditions in the Norwegian local government to conduct local referenda. It must still be up to the municipality itself to decide this according to local circumstances. Referendums may be used as part of the way the municipality operates. I call this local self-government. Finally, the prohibition of publication of election day measurements or election results before the closure of the polling facilities should be maintained, as proposed. It is necessary to ensure that voters are not subjected to undue influence until the electoral actions have taken place. In order for the prohibition to have some preventative effect, there are arguments for imposing penalties in the event of a breach of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e115	From the Right, I would like to point out that in this proposition, the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs is promoting proposals for some changes to the electoral law as well as the municipal and county councils law. In addition, there is a follow-up to the proposals of the Government of St.meld. No 33 for 2007-2008, A strong local democracy, which was launched last June. The rules governing the choice of county councils and local councillors were dealt with at Innst. O. No 102 for 2002–2003. The majority then voted against the Ministry’s proposal for changes to the population selection scheme in the event of large-scale elections. The minority in the Committee, the members of the Right and Christian People's Party, supported the proposal to the Ministry. At present, the Right agrees with the Committee that no changes are currently being made to the voting system applicable to voting rights. The only reason for this is that there is now so little time left for the big shot that for practical reasons it would be very difficult to get in place in time. However, the right wants to take this question up again for the next peak, and then for a thorough treatment. There are many reasons why the topic should be thoroughly addressed and re-evaluated as to whether voters should have a greater influence on the choice of individuals in the event of a roll-out, not least the question of how much the lot should be determined in relation to what the voters should decide. Today, the parties have absolutely decisive impact, while the voters have zero influence. The question is whether a person should not find a better balance than the present system provides. There is also reason to believe that the outcome of a change where voters are given greater opportunity to influence who is actually elected can give rise to political involvement and better electoral participation as a result and give room for a more positive relationship between the voters and the elected representatives. In the Law of 28 June 2002 No. 57 on elections to the Stortinget, county councils and local councils promote the following minority proposals under § 9-3: ‘ The Governing Council shall decide where the vote is to be held and set the time for voting. [[2]] The vote on Monday may not take place later than noon. 21st» On the basis of this, I refer to the minority proposal that is presented in the setting on s. 25-digit number On this basis, I would like to stress that the Right does not agree with the setting of Section 9-3, second paragraph, that the local council itself, with the agreement of at least one third of the members, should be able to decide to keep the polls open longer than the electoral board has decided.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e133	The representative Martin Engeset has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e136	I have experience in making choices in Norway. I have been a member and chairman of the electoral board a lot of times. I would like to address a practical problem with the Council of State, and also with my co-founders. We like to think that when all voters come in, they're so up-and-coming and they have so strong vision, that they have all the prerequisites for separating one party's ballot from another party's ballot. But that's not true. I was very surprised at how many requests came from voters, especially older voters, who have a slightly weaker view, of separating one party's ballot from another party's ballot. They're so similar. They have the same color, they have the same form, they have the same text, everything, and that's a big problem. In addition to voters with low vision, we have some voters who are illiterate, who have even greater problems separating one party's ballot from another party's ballot. After all, we all want – and that is precisely our job – to facilitate the most appropriate and appropriate way of getting to the polls and votes. Then I think it might be an idea – and I want to throw it over to the Council of State – to look at what we can do to make it easier for the voters to find the right ballot. One idea might be that the lot's logo is printed on the ballot box. It is much easier to find the Workers' Party's ballot, in order to take an example, with the Workers' Party's logo on it, than it only says the Norwegian Workers' Party. The fact that it says the Norwegian Labour Party instead of the usual name Ap makes it even more difficult for the voters to separate. This has not been taken out of the air, I have answered these questions: Where is the Workers' Party ballot? Where's Ap's ballot? This is where it says DNA? That's what I had on my heart. Otherwise, the committee has done a very good job, and we support the setting as it stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e147	The changes currently proposed in the election law are largely minor adjustments based on the experience gained in previous elections. In general, on the part of the Christian People's Party, I would like to stress that, as far as possible, constant changes in the electoral law and in the rules for the implementation of the elections should be avoided, but, of course, make the changes that are clearly needed. With regard to the proposal and the suspension, we support the changes in early voting, the time at the latest when the polling facilities have to be closed, the crime fee, the grounds for observation of elections and the rules on local referendums. I also refer to the rapporteur's statement, which was very straightforward in explaining it. So a little bit to what we can't support. These are the proposals on minority rights in determining the opening time of the electoral room and two-day selection. The common feature of local government is that decisions are taken by a general majority and that, only in very special cases, they are minority rights. I can mention legality control as perhaps the most important thing in that way. It is also apparent from the proposition that there is no clear correlation between turnout and extended opening time and/or two-day choice. Moreover, the post-election evaluation in 2007 did not provide a basis for claiming that the opening time leads to electoral winding-up problems, such as: long queues when the premises are to be closed. With this as a hindrance, we are somewhat surprised that it is proposed that a minority of one third be able to overestimate the majority's will in such a case. We find it difficult to see that this is a question of such a nature that there is reason to deviate from the main principles of the municipal law. In my opinion, there is no basis for claiming that there is more democratic what a minority decides on such a matter than the majority actually believes, but that can then be over-tested. In the case of the majority of the population here, a minority in the local government will also be able to impose costs on the municipality, even if this is not a main argument, for which the same minority has no responsibility for finding a deposit. The minority not only imposes additional costs on the municipality, but also on the Norwegian Church in the municipalities, which must follow the same opening hours in the ordinary elections as in the council elections. As I said, this is not a decisive argument, but I do not think it exactly strengthens the majority position either. The Government and the majority in this Chamber agree that the amendments, including in the case of minority voting rights, will apply already at the next elections in the autumn. This means a very short time for municipalities to change the planned choice structure and, where appropriate, to recover the increased costs. Then I would also like to endorse what Mr Chaudhry said, namely how to further contribute to the fact that the design of the ballots is such that it makes it easier for people to put the right list in the ballot box. This is a theme that not only the representative Chaudhry has experienced has been launched by voters – it also has many others who have participated in voters around the whole country. With this, I would recommend voting against the proposed changes that go on two-day elections and minority rights, thus supporting the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party included in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e166	We regard our own democracy as one of the best in the world, and I think we do too. However, Norway has been criticised by election observers who have been present and observed elections here in Norway. I am therefore pleased that the Government and the State Council, Kleppa, have taken the consequences of this, and that it is proposed to intensify parts of the law and propose new rules to bring about an even more democratic electoral system. After all, it is a unanimous committee that supports the proposal to put in place an early voting system, so I shall not comment on it any more. But a little bit to this about minority rights. Where one-third is proposed to be sufficient to adopt a decision on, inter alia: to have two-day elections, in fact, I think it is a strengthening of democracy. I believe that giving a minority greater rights in a democracy, as is done in the draft law here, is helping to strengthen democracy in Norway. I don't think one should overestimate the economic consequences or problematize it so much. I think this is a good proposal. Then there has been a question about the Maritime Commission, and why not the Maritime Commission can be used. I have been informed through the U.D. that the Seaman's Church is not asked specifically if they can be voice receivers. The reason is that in most of the places where the Maritime Church stations are, there are already voice receivers, either embassies, consulates or consulates. So it's already a system for it. Then they say that in New Orleans, among other things. the seafarer’s church is asked to be a voter. It has been done in the past years, and it will also be done this year, because there is no alternative. So the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has arranged for the Nordics abroad who have voting rights to vote. It's not that the Maritime Commission's premises around are necessarily more accessible to people who are bad at bones and things like that, than consulates, etc. is, with which one has actually argued. So I actually think that the U.D. uses the Maritime Commission and the Maritime Churches where necessary, and thus also contributes the Maritime Commission as an important part of the EEAS.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e177	The proposals that are being made today about changes both in the electoral laws and in the local elections are essentially a follow-up to the big bang message about a strong local democracy, as the Stortinget debated earlier in ours. In the proposal, the Government has focused on increasing accessibility, greater opportunities to exercise the right to voice. It is again apparent in the proposal on greater possibilities for prioritising. The early rotation system from 1 July has just been introduced for that reason. The same applies when the proposal applies both to two-day options and to extended opening hours of the election. I think this is important consideration. It is true today that about half of the municipalities have two-day choices. The number has been slightly rising. The foundation has been the concern of commuters and students, and I hope and feel sure that there will be an agreement on the cost side locally, even though there would be a minority in the local government behind such a proposal. In the main message, we also signaled a positive view with regard to inviting election observers to Norway. We're now going to the government to discuss whether to invite the OSCE to do election observation here in the country at the fall election to the fall, and I'm going to brief the Biggest on the outcome when we've discussed that matter in the government. Then I am also pleased with the broad support for the changes that are proposed, including the support to legislate in municipal councils of public opinion. There's going to be a central statistical agency to get a mission, so that also the people's hearing will be part of official statistics. So here are some questions that I'm going to try to answer in turn and in order. The first was from the Progress Party, which was concerned with electronic roasting. Yes, let me say that facilitating more people to voice – some of it – is about formal changes in the laws. So it's going to be better to inform than we've done before. A comprehensive information campaign is planned to help people know what the choice is about and how to stick to the legislation. There is also an incentive scheme for organisations, which is concerned with the need for more people to know how important it is to exercise the right to vote. We have a very special focus on young people. Then an electronic vote attempt is planned at the local elections in 2011. All municipalities are now invited to report whether they might be interested in trying out a 16-year-old voice test in local elections, and we are going to select a representative selection. That period shall be 1 July for notification. To Ivar Skulstad and the question about the changes that will be made today, you will also be asked about the merge option: there is the answer yes. Necessary permissions are now in place. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion will follow up with the regulations that need to be put in place. To the Syvers and Sokneading Options: Let me tell you that it is the Soknea Council locally that determines the time and place of voting at that choice, including whether choices should be held over one or two days. These are not options that are regulated by election laws, and there is no requirement for these options to be consistent with the opening hours of the option. Finally, two things. It is a matter of voting rights. I notice the underline from several of them here. I myself am very busy with a secret option. People should know security for that. There is a clear improvement potential in relation to the last choice when it comes to folding seats. There we have contact with the municipalities. We've been able to afford the Department how we can improve that process. So it was a seaman's church. Now the Rune Kjillaa was in the general context here, why the situation is like he is, so the seafarer churches are often stationed in places where there are already voice rooms, and also on the special situation in New Orleans. Let me just say in addition that the department keeps in touch with the Maritime Church in view of the possible distribution of electoral information and questions about the need for the appointment of voice recipients where it should be relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e203	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 449]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e219	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those who have to sign up for the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e228	This case ends a five-year period with transitional arrangements for several EU countries. I refer to the setting, which everyone can read, and will focus on two aspects. One is that we are positive for the cross-border exchange of labour. It's important, it's right, and Norway's getting better. We get increased value creation and increased diversity. Well - known professor Richard Florida says that recruiting workers from other countries has far more effects than treating people with the same ethnic background. You don't just get one employee. You also get to buy maybe family, culture, food traditions, languages, etc. Enterprises and communities that choose to take advantage of this increase their competitiveness. Until recent years, there have been rises in Norway. Then we have all been happy for the immigration of labour. Then we needed it. Now that the financial crisis leads to increased unemployment, it is important that we are sober even if we experience downtime. We have chosen to join the EEA Agreement, and we have to deal with it, even though we sometimes experience that it challenges us. Some people were even so eager to bring in more immigrants that they forgot to work against social dumping. Here the government was clear, despite some thinking that the most important thing, after all, was to bring people in, not their welfare. In connection with the notification of labour immigration, it was said that the Government should assess whether Norwegian training rights and obligations should also include work migrants. It is important to learn from the mistakes made by the authorities in the 1970s towards the many guest workers from Pakistan. At that time, the authorities thought that after a short time they would go back again, but many stayed. Because the authorities thought that people would return after a certain period of stay, good integration arrangements were also not put in place. What we have to think about when we bring in people to work in Norway is that many of them are potential future citizens. Unfortunately, it is still part of the Pakistani population that cannot Norwegian. Many of them work their lives, and the result is that many of them now go to social security. It brings me into the second relationship I was going to talk about. It's about how we look at immigrants and workers in general. Do we want a society where we do not guarantee workers fundamental rights? Someone in this room means it. We're not going back any further than the last growing-up period, when we had a government that took rights away from employees. Do we want a society where employers can treat their employees as they please? Someone means it, and someone does it. Do we want a society where we throw people out of the country when we no longer need them? Someone means it. I can reassure them – perhaps in the Progress Party – who are concerned about the many foreign workers who will continue to work in Norway after the transitional rules are repealed on 1 May. For non-resident workers employed in Norwegian establishments, the same rules will apply to Norwegian workers, such as: health and safety at work and the holiday law. If there's anyone who's worried about that, I can at least calm them down with this. I am pleased that the majority believe that people who have been granted rights in Norway should, of course, be able to use these rights, as everyone else can. Behind all the technique and the law in this case, it's just, deep down, about how we want to treat people, and what kind of people we want to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e245	The problem of this case and the reason why we have responded is that in the proposition presented by the Government’s Stortinget – which is just two and a half pages – the assessment of the application of the safeguard clause has been avoided. It is fully possible, under the agreement with the EU, to extend the transitional regime for a further two years. The prerequisite for doing so is to fear or experience instability and serious disturbances in the labour market. It would be very natural, when you put forward such a proposition, to consider at least whether the situation in today's labour market meets the conditions, so that the safeguard clause could possibly be implemented. You haven't. I note that with one sentence in the proposition, the whole issue is dismissed and indicates that the Government assumes that it would not be appropriate to use the safeguard clause – one sentence. I think that, with all due respect, limits the irresponsible approach to such an important and comprehensive issue as we are talking about here. The situation after the financial crisis has changed dramatically. The situation today is quite different from that of just six to eight months ago. In this situation, when unemployment in Europe is rising sharply, Norway is experiencing labour market failures, and in particular the fact that in the EU8 countries, which are now exempt from the transitional regime and have full access to the Norwegian labour market, unemployment is very high and the economic challenges are very high, it should be quite natural for the application of the safeguard clause to be assessed at least because the situation has changed dramatically. So the government didn't. When the Committee asks the Ministry to make such an assessment as to whether it may be appropriate to apply the safeguard clause in the current financial crisis, an cryptic response is received from the Council of State, which refers to a previous 2004 deposit proposal and assessments made before the financial crisis took place. That's what I call being at the limit of irresponsible management of what can be a challenge to the Norwegian labour market. At any rate, it should be properly and thoroughly assessed in order to allow the Storting to take a full view of the possible application of the safeguard clause. There are several points in the previous grubbing-up proposal that have been highlighted in relation to the opening up of the labour market to the new EU8 countries. Several parties, including parties currently in government, have pointed out – of course – the fight against social dumping – that no one wants to experience – and that a balance should be maintained in the labour markets. However, it has also been stressed in the past that a situation where Norwegian welfare benefits are put under pressure should be avoided. Now these rules change dramatically, for example. unemployment rights. Following the disappearance of the transitional rules, full rights will be granted in relation to, for example: Day payments in the Norwegian system. These are challenges that were raised many years ago, and I note that neither this government nor previous governments have sufficiently committed themselves to effective action against, which was actually the premise when the transitional rules were introduced. Therefore, the Progress Party believes that in this situation, with so little information from the Government and little investigation behind this case, we should simply go in to use the safeguard clause until we get more clarity on the challenges and the situation facing the Norwegian labour market – when we are raising the transitional regime, and the EU8 countries get full access to the Norwegian labour market. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e260	The representative Per-Willy Amundsen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e263	There are two principles that we should base on in this matter. One is agreements and respect for the agreements concluded. If you like them or you don't like them, it's another thing. Once you have an agreement and a cooperation, you have to respect it. The second is human dignity and solidarity. I'll come back to it. The EEA extension on 1 May 2004 extended the EEA Agreement to 10 new countries. The EEA Enlargement Agreement opens a transitional period of seven years during which the countries which were EEA members before 1 May 2004 have access to restrictions on the free movement of workers from the new Member States. In the first two years after enlargement, the EEA countries were able to use national provisions on access to the labour market vis-à-vis citizens of the new Member States, i.e. until 1 May 2006. However, countries could not introduce more restrictive national rules than those applicable to the signature of the EEA extension. After the first two years, the application of the national provisions could be extended for three new years without any further conditions, i.e. until 1 May 2009. SV supports the majority of the Committee in this matter, which says that there is a positive cross-border exchange of labour. However, we believe that the law must ensure that such an exchange does not take the form of social dumping. This is particularly important when the transitional regime for the EU8 countries expires on 1 May. For the treatment of St.meld. No 18 for 2007-2008, we stated: ‘Work immigration shall not lead to labour exploitation or to increased disparities. Social dumping must therefore be pursued further, including strict requirements for a good system in enterprises in order to avoid social dumping». This must continue to be both the objective and the instrument. I therefore join the Committee when it points out the importance of the Government following closely the labour market situation and that it will continue and launch new measures against social dumping if the situation so requires. Here the government must keep in close contact with both the employers’ organisations and the trade union movement. The government, the trade union movement and the red-green parties are natural allies here, but also the serious part of the employers’ organisations is interested in ensuring that the pay and working conditions of Norwegian workers are not impaired. Then it's the piece of solidarity, as I mentioned. I now heard the Progress Party – and we have heard it earlier in the debate – with what I experience as a use and throw mentality: workers come in and do a job – they build the country, they expand our welfare community, they work in the North Sea, they work in our nursing homes, etc. – but when we do not need them, they will not have any rights in Norway. I've been in Saudi Arabia a couple of times – three times, and I've studied carefully how that country and the countries around it work in picking up the workforce, using it and exploiting it – then throwing it. I cannot understand in my wildest imagination that the Progress Party wants Norway to follow the path of Saudi Arabia and Saudi Arabia's neighbours. I can never understand that the Progress Party has the goal of using our workers, our fellow people, who come in and do a job to build the welfare state, doing a job so that our hospitals function, our hospitals function, our public traffic functions, so that our business life should work at all, so that the day we don't need them, simply to throw them out of the country. The type of human world SV can never go in for, and we take a strong distance from it. I believe it is right that my colleague from the Workers' Party was inside: the people who have come to the country remain here. Then we need to see the challenges and needs and facilitate their becoming good, rewarding and positive citizens of this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e281	The Central Party notes that there are major challenges to the end of the transitional arrangements for the EU8 countries in the summer. It is in any case that the transitional arrangements would have had to end at one time, that is in the nature of the matter. And unless you can see into the future, there's no one given to know for sure if any later time would have been better suited. The centre party is therefore part of the setting. The real problem is that schemes that have given Norwegian work a protection were meant only to be temporary. The government’s task will be to try to counteract the potentially unfortunate consequences of the end of the transitional arrangements. With today's service directive debate in mind, we fear that there will be no simple task. Today, labour migrants from the EU8 countries are entitled to Norwegian welfare schemes after a year of continuous work in the country. At the same time, there is a requirement for a work permit, full-time work and a decent salary level. Social contracts in Norway are based on income relative to cost levels. It provides taxability and allows the Nordic welfare model. Increased influxes of migrant workers can lead to pressure on Norwegian pay and working conditions in an increasingly unemployed situation. In particular, this could be the situation in sectors without generalised collective agreements when the requirements of the Norwegian salary level are no longer met. The Baltic region is now experiencing dramatic increases in unemployment and a sharp reduction in wage conditions. Germany and Austria use the transitional clause which states that they can continue to suffer serious labour market imbalances and extend the transitional arrangements until 2011. Norway also needs to meet the challenges, by creating a labour market in which no other country's inhabitants choose Norway as a working country without providing proper conditions and full-time work. If we are unable to do so, we will in the long run be able to undermine important welfare arrangements for all those working in Norway. The Services Directive was debated today and the challenges are the same: the regulatory framework must facilitate labour immigration which is proportionate to the number of long-term jobs we have to offer, with proper pay and working conditions. The aim is a labour market in which workers, Norwegians or workers can obtain full-time work and pay their bills. The broad population should be able to maintain a general consumption and not have to finance it, and people should have access to a solid welfare system that they themselves have been involved in financing. There is no small task we elected to care for. The threat of getting it done is in the absence of future opportunities to take action and to keep us up with laws against social dumping. Unfortunately, the EU is helping to make this work considerably more difficult.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e298	The present legislative proposal ends – as the rapporteur was in it – a five-year period of transitional arrangements for workers from several EU countries. The phasing-out of schemes will mean simplifications for employees, employers and the administration. Today’s transitional arrangements concern workers from eight of the countries that joined the EEA in 2004 and workers from Bulgaria and Romania who became EEA members in 2007. The transitional arrangements require workers to have a concrete offer of full-time work with Norwegian pay and working conditions. Experience with the transitional arrangements has shown that they have not prevented Norwegian employers from recruiting the labour they needed. At the same time, the transitional arrangements have helped to provide workers with an orderly pay and working conditions. Transitional arrangements for the EU8 countries expire on 1 May 2009. It is possible to extend them for a further two years by using the so-called safeguard clause under the EEA Enlargement Agreement. Such extension shall be subject to the detection or risk of serious disturbances on the labour market. As I see it, there has to be a causal link between the influx of labour from the Member States concerned and labour market disturbances. Although we are now in a serious labour market situation — more serious than in the past — Norway cannot justify a specific extension of the transitional arrangements. Employment immigration to Norway is not the reason for the current situation. I am pleased that the committee majority supports this view. Upon termination of the transitional arrangements, the situation will be the same as for persons from the older EEA countries. They may then enter Norway without a residence permit and stay or work here for up to three months, or stay for up to six months if they are looking for work. The transitional arrangements have allowed claims to Norwegian wages and salaries to be made subject to a work permit. Compliance with these requirements has been the responsibility of the Labour Inspectorate. It falls away when the transitional arrangements fall away. However, it is not the case that the foreign workers will thus not be entitled to, for example: regulated working time, paid overtime after the termination of the transitional arrangements or not requiring a sound working environment. For non-resident workers employed in Norwegian enterprises, the same rules apply to Norwegian workers, for example: health and safety at work and the holiday law. In the extension of this, I would also say that those who have acquired rights, for example. in respect of daily allowances, of course stay in Norway and be able to use the unemployment rights, as is the case with anyone else who has acquired such rights. It is also not relevant to conclude return agreements for EEA citizens. When Bulgaria and Romania became EEA members on 1 August 2007, similar transitional arrangements for those countries came into force for a period of two years from 1 January 2007. These may be extended for three new years without any further conditions, i.e.: until 1 January 2012. Since the transitional rules for Bulgaria and Romania have been in operation for a relatively short period of time, it is desirable to continue them until 1 January 2012, but so that the transitional arrangements will be assessed annually.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e315	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e318	Norway is in many ways a very attractive country to be a worker in. We have generally seen, and especially for types of labour without long-term education, very good wages. In general, we have seen favourable public benefits, which make Norway appear more attractive in European terms than many other European countries. Does not the Council of State not see that it would be natural to assess the situation against the financial crisis, which is now particularly severe for these EU8 countries, and how it would have affected the labour market, all the time it could have actually used the safeguard clause? The party calling for this is that the application of the safeguard clause to the labour market in Europe and in Norway has not been assessed at all since the financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e325	Firstly, I am pleased that Norway is an attractive country, especially in the light of the many debates we have on the further development of the welfare society, for example. whether we should choose tax relief or welfare. Then I am pleased with Amundsen's confirmation that Norway is a good country to live in, and that the outside world also sees it. Then it is that the possibility of extending the transitional arrangements in the EEA Agreement for a further two years – the conditions are much more stringent, as the representative is probably aware, than for the first seven years – is about instability in the labour market or the risk of it. In fact, it is natural to assume that there is instability or a dramatic increase in unemployment in the country that may be requesting the derogation. I have the impression that the representative Amundsen suggests that we should have exceptional provisions in Norway because unemployment is high in the countries where people may leave. I'm pretty sure that's not the intention of the possibility of an extension.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e333	My point is that there's a connection between these relationships. Of course, when the situation is very bad in the EU8 countries and relatively better in Norway and access to the labour market in Norway is free, it means that we are at risk of a larger influx. That is why it would be natural for this government to assess it against the application of the safeguard clause. I'm recording that you haven't done that. Thus, the safeguard clause has not been addressed and assessed against the situation in the European and Norwegian labour markets since the financial crisis was a fact. So it is not just a question of finding imbalances in the labour market. And it's clearly also a assumption that you can verify it, that it's a situation that we can get into. That's why it would be natural to evaluate it. Does not the Norwegian Government and the Council of State take seriously enough to be able to make that assessment?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e338	If there is something this government is doing, it is taking the situation in the Norwegian labour market seriously. We do it in the light of the international situation. This is why we put in place a number of measures — and stronger measures than other countries in Europe, despite the fact that we have less leave than most other countries in Europe. And so it's not like this has not been evaluated, as the representative Amundsen says. I'm sorry that Amundsen thinks it's a shame to get a brief – and clear – response from the department, but I can assure you that I will continue with it if the answers are clear. The situation is that Norway is a country where we are concerned about the increase in unemployment and take strong action against it. However, unemployment in Norway is slightly above a third of the average level of unemployment in Europe. It is based on the fact that it may be difficult to argue that Norway is in a particularly vulnerable employment situation compared to the countries from which people may travel to work in Norway. Then I must stress: good rules against social dumping should be continued either in favour of the Advance Party or against them. It'll also be important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e347	No more words have been asked for a line. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e352	This debate shows, once again, that the Progress Party has a non-coherent immigration policy. There are many different reasons why people are now concerned about what is happening at the moment when the transitional arrangements for these countries cease. Some are concerned because they fear that the rights of workers may be impaired, but there is a clear government that foreign workers should be covered by the same legislation as other workers. When Per-Willy Amundsen wants to apply the safeguard clause, it is by no means because he cares about the employees, on the contrary. He fears that there will be more to get a piece of the Norwegian cake. With this, the Progress Party not only shows its true face, but also the Spagaten Progress Party is down in. In an earlier situation with increasing unemployment in Norway, Per Sandberg was out and encouraged the Nordics to go out into Europe and get work there. Yes, it would have been a bit of a message if he at the same time thought that people would not be allowed to share in the same rights as other workers! Per-Willy Amundsen has also shown, in many contexts, that we have a large labour market in the EEA. Firstly, this is not enough. We know that, for example. half of the oil industry in Rogaland, which has come in recent years, has come from third countries. In this way, the Progress Party has a policy that weakens business. In addition to that, we see that the weakening of workers' rights is always the right-hand side's response to downtime. Now we see demonstrations in countries like France because they want to weaken well-being. Here in Norway, we are in a different situation. Therefore, the last thing we need, business and, at least, workers travelling across borders, is economic experiments and use and the caste mentality of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e361	I am surprised by both the strong words that fall into this debate, and not least by a commitment that is great – but that is to some extent just good. But there are some claims here that are becoming completely unfair – first of all from the representative Chaudhry. When he refers to the policies of the Advance Party as a kind of ‘use and cast-mentality’ and draws parallels to Saudi Arabia and what I know, you go reasonably far in your assumptions. There has never been any major and widespread disagreement in this room on labour market policy vis-à-vis the EU, but it is therefore true that there are no fundamentalists here – at least not the Progress Party. We note one fact, and that is that Stortinget primarily has a responsibility for Norwegian workers – to ensure Norwegian residents work before exporting to other countries around us. But it's not really about any Saudi politics at all. On the contrary, it is a question of using the safeguard clause contained in the agreement with the EU. Arild Stokkan-Grande "takes it all out" when he comes with his comparisons here in relation to the Progress Party. I note the following: When the Workers' Party is talking about 'work for all', it is not necessarily Norwegian workers you are talking about. Based on the article on Arild Stokkan-Grande, I understand that it may well be so much about workers from countries outside Norway. I then find that the Progress Party strongly disagrees with the Labour Party. We believe that we have a primary responsibility to take care of the interests of the Norwegian labour market, ensuring that as many Norwegian citizens as possible have a job. It's a fact, and I have no problem standing by. There is no major disagreement that the single European labour market can be positive in many respects, but we have first and foremost a responsibility to take care of our own interests. I record that for the Workers' Party this is not as important, when one is not even willing to provide the Storting with a proper, serious and thorough assessment of the possibility of using the safeguard clause.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e372	I just want to ask a few questions to the representative Per-Willy Amundsen. I wonder if he is aware of how many people from abroad are contributing to the functioning of our money machine, and that there is money coming in from Norwegian pedestal, so that the Progress Party can spend all of this money for all the good purposes. Is he aware of how many people there are and where they come from? I would like to ask Per-Willy Amundsen if he is aware of how many nurses from abroad are actively picked up so that the nursing homes can shine as the Advance Party wants them to do, that the care of the elderly can shine like that of the Advance Party and everyone else wants it to do? Is he aware of how many nurses from abroad there are at all in our healthcare system who have been actively picked up? Is he aware of how many bus drivers are picked up for Oslo's public transport – and not only Oslo's public transport, but also the public transport of the districts – to function at all? We actively go out and pick them up, and employers give them language training, so that public transport can operate at all. Then comes the point: the people we actively collect for our welfare services to work will receive the message that the Progress Party wants to give them: we need you, we use you as long as we need you, but when there is no need for you, we have no obligations, no human solidarity with you. That is where we are strongly different from the Progress Party. We believe that Norwegian jobs are important. But those who contribute to building the Norwegian welfare state and to making it work at all should have the same rights and human dignity as all of us who happen to be citizens of this country, born in this country, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e379	It's interesting to see the Per-Willy Amundsen Progress Party trying to get away from the fact that the Progress Party has a policy that is not at all related in this area. It's almost so that one gets tears in his eyes when one hears Per-Willy Amundsen standing on this pulpit in a touching care for the interests of Norwegian workers. Of course, the Norwegian Storing has overall responsibility for Norwegian workers. Everyone agrees. But I would like to ask this room and Per-Willy Amundsen: where was the previous government taking its support and power from to the weakening of Norwegian workers' rights in the previous period? It wasn't from the Workers' Party, the Center Party or SV. No, of course it was from the Advancement Party. When one is now trying to make it appear that one has a great commitment to Norwegian workers’ rights, it is a direct mistake. Secondly, it is worrying that the Progress Party does not realise that their policies actually also contribute to weakening Norway’s competitiveness and the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. They have been targeted against labour from third countries. Last June, when we discussed the labour immigration message, there were sharp protests by the Progress Party because there was no other than labour immigration from the EEA area. There are two things to consider: firstly, it will weaken the industry in Norway, which is dependent on specialists and workers from third countries. Secondly, one must relate to the other – if we want labour immigration from EEA countries, we must also treat them as people. In the field of regional policy, the policy of the Progress Party is inconsistent, and in addition, there is an untruth. I think that the Progress Party should stick too well. Once again, I would like to remind you that when the previous government was established, and when they were working on this field, there was a systematic impairment of workers' rights. When the new government, consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and SV, has corrected the errors that were made, it has certainly not been supported by the Progress Party. I think that should be borne in mind by Per-Willy Amundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e388	Per-Willy Amundsen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e391	When you listen to the representative Chaudhry, it almost sounds as if the Nordics themselves have not helped at all to build this country. When Arild Stokkan-Grande refers to what the Progress Party has done in previous periods, the representative should also be aware of one thing: it was thanks to the Progress Party that we had transitional arrangements in place for the EU8 countries to join the EU. But it's a little interesting – and that's true of both of these representatives – that when you talk about immigration, it's obvious that you obviously haven't taken into account everything that's been written about it, namely that labour immigration is only a small contribution in the big context of situations where you have a high economic situation. One can never solve basic societal problems through labour immigration. It's an economic fact. There's written long investigations on this. I just want to encourage the representatives to conference with everything that's written, not least at the University of Oslo, about these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e398	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e412	Odelstingen goes to voting in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e419	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Martin Engeset on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e618	The second paragraph of Section 9-2 and the first paragraph of Section 35 are the first. Right, Christian People's Party and Left have announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e629	The second paragraph of Section 9-3 of the suspension is then replaced by the proposal of the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e647	It goes over the rest of I, the rest of II and III.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e656	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e665	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e672	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Per-Willy Amundsen on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e709	The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e720	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The President assumes that the Progress Party will also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e733	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-23-lower.ana.ud131e940	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
