ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e43	The requested alternate from the Uppland County, Stein Knutsen, has taken the seat. The representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad shall apply for sick leave from 8 January until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Modulf Aukan, is invited to meet during the leave period. Modulf Increase is elected to the Creation for the time he meets the representative of May-Helen Molvær Grimstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e69	Modulf Agaran is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e75	The President will propose the election of three presidents for Stortinget’s meetings today and tomorrow – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Anders Anundsen, Solvency Horne and Kenneth Svendsen. – Other proposals are not available, and Anders Anundsen, Solvency Horne and Kenneth Svendsen are considered unanimously elected presidents of today’s and tomorrow’s meetings.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e93	First of all, I want to wish the Council of State and colleagues at Stortinget a Happy New Year! Neck damage is and has been a health area in Norway that has never been given the priority it should have been given, irrespective of its cause, at birth, leisure activity, violence or traffic accidents. There are many reasons for this, but I think that we are experiencing both system failures, professional disagreement and under-reporting, and that many with demonstrable damage are throwing balls and falling between many chairs, where competence and understanding of the individual's situation crumble. In addition, there is little doubt that there are too close links between parts of the neurological environment, the medical environment and the insurance companies. By addressing this matter, everyone should be aware that I have only one wish for the interpellation, and that is that those who have been seriously damaged their necks and who have severe pains will receive a good treatment, and that everyone will have the opportunity to have a quality diagnosis in Norway and then receive treatment as far as possible in Norway or abroad, in line with other health services or injuries, according to internationally accepted methods that Norway has recognised through the WHO. This concerns not only health treatment but also legal follow-up and follow-up through social and Nav systems. The follow-up that many get today is unworthy. Reference may be made here to an average period of treatment in insurance for head injuries of nine years. And then I ask for understanding whether I should be too hard on, or whether someone should feel stressed. We as society can't live with today's situation, either those who have a neck injury, or who will have it in the future. Already in 1997, a question was raised in the Stortinget on neck injuries. The Anneliese Dørum of the Workers' Party was of the opinion that the number of neck injuries was increasing, and said among other things. that she thought it was necessary to clear up the situation that had been revealed, that the damage had increased to an extent after the safety belt was used, and that it was then expensive for the insurance companies. ‘Then they are interested in removing this damage from the insurance image. I suspect that there is too much contact between some specialists and the companies, and I believe that this is a matter in which we must go deep into many areas." In December 2001, then Minister Højbrätten raised this issue, and in April 2003 he promised to clean it up. In 2004, the Ministry of Health asked the Directorate-General for Health to report on the treatment of the most serious neck injuries and pointed to criticism of the treatment provision for patients with severe neck injuries in Norway: we are asking the specialist health service to develop professional guidelines for complex neck injuries in Norway. On 16 March 2004, the specialist health service replied that complicated nuclides would return to the directorate. It would then have to be assessed whether there was sufficient evidence to provide such guidance. The ministry was contacted by people with neck injuries and by the Whiplash Association in 2006, where investigations were requested. The ministry replied that the directorate found it difficult to establish diagnostic and treatment guidelines. On the basis of this, the Ministry did not find the basis to ask the Directorate again to draw up professional guidelines. Then, on 7 September 2007, we saw a look-up in the VG, and the surge of criticism of the treatment of neck injuries in Norway, after which the Brustad Council decided to ask the Social and Health Directorate to review the treatment of severe neck injuries. So it was VG who was able to get the Minister of Health and the Department to deal with a matter that had just been settled. But the question is, who is training an investigation, which means that too many people with neck injuries do not receive the treatment they are entitled to? Who is it that has so much power that one examines the wishes of one's own ministers for years? It is unworthy that for more than ten years they have been talking and talking about having serious neck injuries to get a decent offer in Norway, but nothing has actually happened. I have sent in four written questions on this topic, and the answers I have received are so misleading and so full of errors that you can ask questions about whether it has any intention of having a system of written questions. I have received a response that it is difficult to diagnose serious neck injuries, and that there is hardly any medical literature in this area, to the contrary, that it is very easy to diagnose the most serious injuries after degrees III and IV of the WAD. One might wonder if it is such that the department takes responsibility for them with less damage, while leaving to a small neurological environment to deal with the most seriously damaged and with this disclaims its responsibility. I would like to recall what the representative of Dørum mentioned in 1997 when she pointed out the link between specialists and insurance companies. It would be right, as I see it, to put in place a system that ensures that people with noodles get an assessment of specialists who are determined to be Havile. Today we find that the person after person has to go abroad for his own account to be diagnosed and to receive treatment. Some go to Germany, others go to Iran, Spain, the United States, Sweden or India. This cannot continue! Firstly, many with serious injuries are not diagnosed in Norway. Without diagnosis, they receive no treatment or follow-up through the healthcare system or the Nav system. Don't you realize that you're not just doing wrong by not diagnosing and treating, but doing triplets wrong? You leave people with great pains to themselves, without rights and follow-up. If something is called unworthy, it is the treatment given in Norway to those with severe neck damage. Furthermore, the situation is such that no data are available for neck injuries in Norway. There is only one patient register where it is impossible to draw conclusions about the extent of this damage problem. The Ministry is referring to early 1990s figures and claims that in Norway there are only 42 headlong injuries per year. 100000 inhabitants. This is very wonderful. Denmark has, for comparison, 301 injuries per year. 100000 inhabitants, and Sweden has 422. We're going to have only 10 pst. of the damage suffered by our neighbouring countries. ==References== 60 pst. the damage to the neck is related to traffic damage, and we do not have fewer traffic damage than our neighbouring country. Furthermore, 40 pst. of the damage related to the rest of society. The latest figures from international research in this area, published in the Spring 2008 magazine Spine, suggest that in Norway, due to traffic damage, it is about 300 were injured per day. 100000 inhabitants. This will mean that we have approx. 13 500 neck injuries. So you take that for 40 pst. In Norway, the number of injuries to the neck is reported to be higher than the number of injuries in traffic. in the year 22,500. That's why the directorate's number of 2,000 this year is going to be completely wrong, so it's a mistake to think that you deliberately want to keep this figure as low as possible. I want to remind you that the numbers I use are derived from official research statistics. No one can today respond to what diagnosis has been used and how many have suffered damage to Grade III and IV of the WAD. But if we relate to our neighbouring countries and to international research, it will be between 300 and 400 per year that is seriously damaged by the neck. It is strange that it is confirmed that ICD-10 diagnostics are to be used by the specialist health service, when there is no consensus for WAD, which is again used by the judicial system. Ergo uses the health and health systems different concepts and concepts that do not match each other. They damaged their necks in Norway disappear through the registration system. Many people do not get a diagnosis and are in principle deprived of all rights. We can't have it like that! I look forward to the fact that the Council of State actually gets hold of this matter and gets the order of the siblings, because now we've been talking about being able to help the victims for ten years, but we've actually not been able to put in place a system that ensures them a fair and good treatment in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e133	What is difficult about these kinds of issues that are being raised in the United Kingdom today is that, as political director of the Ministry of Health and Welfare, I cannot give a professional assessment of whether the neck injury in Norway is getting a good or bad offer. There, of course, I would have to rely entirely on supporting the established systems for professional feedback and assessments. There is also some of the exciting things about health policy that are constantly in a cross-border country between politics and occupations. In relation to this interpellation and also the fact that the representative Fredriksen has recently raised two questions about neck injuries for a written answer, I asked the Health Directorate for a professional statement on the matter, and both answers were given for a written answer. And what I'm going to say here today is based on the professional assessments that the Health Directorate has given me. And of course, in this room you can think freely that the Health Directorate doesn't understand what they're talking about. It's also a legitimate political position, but my starting point is that I trust the Health Directorate's assessments and the way they express their feedback to me as the responsible State Council. In addition to seeing the questions raised by Fredriksen, his professional input to me, his professional input into this interpellation, the Directorate of Health, which Fredriksen had in mind, also delivered in 2006 the report ‘Nakgeslängsassosierte neckskader’ on behalf of the Department. That report was prepared by an expert group, which was also represented by the National Association for Neckslengskade. What is important for me to stress in relation to what is said by the Health Directorate is that the Health Directorate informs me that patients with the most serious neck injuries, i.e. what is called WAD, Grade III and IV, are of course taken care of by the specialist health services immediately after the injury has occurred, and that the treatment given to this group in Norway is proper, and according to the Health Directorate they receive treatment equivalent to that given in a country with which we can compare. In the opinion of the Health Directorate, it is wrong to criticise that report on this basis, and it is considered that the offer to this patient group is professionally sound and also comparable to the offer given in other countries. It is also important to stress that of those patients with less serious injuries, i.e. Grade I and II and some patients with Grade III, most will recover within a relatively short period of time, but some of these patients will also be able to develop chronic injuries. Not least in relation to those with less severe injuries, it is claimed that there is better treatment provision in other countries. But once again, according to the Health Directorate, it is believed that patients with chronic plagues after minor injuries should not be operated on. The most important thing is that healthcare follows up this patient group in a good manner as early as possible to avoid chronic distress. And, according to the Health Directorate again, there are patients who have suffered chronic plagues for less serious injuries, who have sought investigation and treatment abroad. In particular, there has been a demand for treatment services in Germany. The Health Directorate has warned against this treatment because it is thought that there is a risky operation that lacks scientific evidence. My starting point as the Council of State is that I cannot possibly stand and say from the Chair of the Storting that I – if the Directorate of Health considers from a professional assessment that the type of treatment that it is such. are in Germany, are at risk and cannot be recommended – intends to review the Health Directorate’s assessment and say that the offer should still be used in Germany. It impresses me if the representative Fredriksen has knowledge that allows him to draw a different conclusion, but in that case I don't share it. What I agree with, however, is that it is important that the knowledge of neck length injuries must always be worked on, not least in relation to primary doctors, and that is why the Health Directorate has also recommended the Medical Association to arrange a course on neck injuries, not least for primary doctors. Better knowledge among primary doctors can help fewer patients to suffer long-term chronic plagues after neck injury. In addition, based on what has happened in recent times here with written questions from Fredriksen and also this interpellation, the Health Directorate has said that they will now convene the National Association for Nursing Damage to a meeting this New Year, where any misunderstandings about the diagnosis and treatment of neck injury in Norway can be clarified. In this meeting, the patient association may also give an idea of what they think can be done to make treatment provision in Norway even better. But my main conclusion is that the treatment provision we have in Norway for this patient group is in line with what the professional community recommends to me. Then there are probably professionals who disagree with the Health Directorate summary, but I have to deal with what the Health Directorate recommends to me so clearly. It's so serious that the Health Directorate is very clear that it's opening up to, for example. this patient treatment in Germany, in the opinion of the Health Directorate, is to expose patients to risk. Then I think I have to listen to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e154	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer and, in particular, for the fact that the NCO will be called to a meeting. Besides that, I have to say it was a very thin answer. My main message in the interpellation is to get cleaned up in the system once and for all. Over the years, we have had investigations, which have essentially not given us an answer on how to treat severe neck injuries in Norway. This has been going on for over ten years. Injury to the neck may result in 32 serious conditions of disease. It is therefore important that we take over and understand the complexity of the treatment of neck injuries. The treatment that has been given in the past has been and tends to be amateurish. It can be mentioned that when the pill of happiness came, more or less everyone with a severe degree of neck injury was put on this and pain-relieving without much greater happiness for them. Norway has undertaken to follow the WHO guidelines through diagnostic tools and follow-up of severe neck injuries. In today’s Norway, the patient is referred to the neurosurgical or orthopaedic department and the fracture is treated as unstable until the opposite is proven. How does this correspond when ISO-certified functional images are not taken of the transition between head and neck according to WHO guidelines as long as the case is an insurance case? This should be mandatory and must be the case if the neck injury is to be adequately treated and followed up in Norway. Now it's like neither I, the ones who have an injury, nor the Whiplash Association is about to send someone here or there to be operated. Operation is the absolute last thing you do. But in Norway, you don't even get a diagnosis. When you have young people aged 15–16 who have to go abroad to get a picture of their necks, something you refuse to do in Norway, and it turns out that you have had a break in your neck for over three years, and you still stand here and claim that the offer you get in Norway is very good, I think you should go on your own and actually understand that the offer is not good. [[Applause from the gallery]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e167	The President will state that there is no opportunity for applause from the gallery.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e170	I must essentially repeat the answer I got in my main post. I am fully aware that there are certainly examples of patients both with neck injuries and other injuries that have not received sufficient treatment in Norway. It happens wrong, and we have to work systematically all the time to avoid that. The main starting point for the representative, Fredriksen, is that there are systematic mistakes, i.e. that Norwegian experts in this group, the Health Directorate, do not understand what they are doing. That's exactly what the representative Fredriksen says. As I said, Fredriksen would like to say. Fortunately, we live in a democratic country where everyone can believe it, but the Minister of Health, the Council of State responsible, cannot oversee a comprehensively clear technical advice and say: Yes, I hear that the Directorate of Health has a group of Norwegian experts in this area, but they do not understand what they are doing. I get this better. Therefore, we need to change treatment provision in Norway. I'm not going to do that. I believe I have no basis for that. As I said, I'm very impressed with Fredriksen's knowledge of this, and it's a real and great commitment that lies behind it. I am absolutely sure that similar assessment would have been made by a State Council from the Progress Party in my chair. We cannot have a Minister of Health in Norway who says that Norwegian trade unions do not understand what they recommend, and therefore the Minister of Health decides how to treat necklong injuries in Norway – contrary to the professional advice given to him. I agree with the representative of Fredriksen that it is obvious at least that there is a strong disagreement about how these injuries are to be treated, between those affected by them and the professional environment to which I refer. There is probably nothing wise to do but put them together around a table. And then, once again, you get to review the treatment offer and what kind of criticism is being raised against it, and look at how the Health Directorate explains its advice to me to the group concerned, because they're quite unambiguous.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e181	Of course, the Council of State has to deal with the advice he receives from his professional environments in order to respond to the Size of such an interplay. It's quite obvious, something else would of course be strange. The representative Fredriksen addresses some issues that it is important that we take them further. The Council of State itself recognised that, of course, there is disagreement between the patient groups and the experts in relation to the treatment given, and not least that it can be seen that there is a practice related to insurance matters in relation to these injuries and treatment. That's why it's important to take this review. Governments have said that they want to invite, among other things, The Whiplash Association, the patient organization, for a conversation between the directorate and this group. It's important. It is important first to clarify what one disagrees about, what kind of offers we have in Norway, what are we doing that is different from what our neighbouring countries and other countries do, and not least: why have we put ourselves on the line we've done? It is probably a little important that at least you get a consensus on the treatment given, among other things. in Sweden and Denmark, and the fact that Germany is also slightly demarcated. I don't think it's like the countries around us, which we normally compare with, necessarily have a somewhat worse treatment offer, and they're going to bald and choose with the patients and run risk sports with the treatments. That's why it's important that we get that overview. My challenge to the Council of State is — because it can do so without any further problems — that he will also go abroad in connection with the review and the meeting he is about to have, in order to make up his mind or at least to get an idea of what to do, for example. in Germany. What makes you go on one line, while in Norway we've gone on another line? Would you also like to see Sweden and Denmark? Would you at least look at the registration practices and diagnostic practices we have applied to this patient group? I take it that these are very difficult issues. This is also seen in insurance matters, and it is therefore important that we do our utmost to look at what we offer that is different from our neighbouring country. What is the difference between the registration practices we have in Norway and those in other countries? Because I think we have a lot to learn, and that's what we're going to take over. We are a relatively small environment, as the Council of State has pointed out. I'm not questioning the professional community, but we can have different approaches to the matter, and then it's important that we get the most knowledge in place, so that we can also see and learn from what other countries do, and not least have a dialogue with those who feel that the treatment given to them is not adequate. When you look at the practice in other countries and see that other things are done, yes, it can also cause you to become unsure why you do not get the same offer. So at least the dialogue should get in place and the knowledge should be even better put in place. It's said that you don't have knowledge, but sometimes it's okay to get information and skills from places other than your own professional environment. So my question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State ensure that information is collected, look at practices in other countries, at registration practices, whether we have something to learn there – not necessarily that you have to agree on everything – but at least that dialogue starts quickly, so that this patient group feels properly cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e198	As the interpellant has pointed out, this issue has been raised at regular intervals — at least for the last ten to eleven years, I myself have participated in that debate. There is no doubt that this offer can be improved in several areas. Nor do I believe that Norwegian doctors and the Norwegian professional community have all the necessary knowledge and skills, and it is also important to include the knowledge and experience that this patient group has actually acquired over its period of illness. So it's important that you also listen to this group. I have registered over these years, and also now, that there is disagreement in the professional environments both here in Norway and abroad in terms of both diagnostics and treatment. I agree with the Council of State that he does not have the necessary knowledge of this area, and that he has to rely on the professional advice he receives from our strong trade unions, and that he is dependent on relying on these. I also agree that it is this frontier country between politics and trades that is exciting, but it is also important that trades and policies are played on, and that good dialogue is held. As many people have been involved, I believe that the offer can be much better, and I believe, as I said, that this disagreement that we as politicians, but also the professional environments and not least patient organisations and the individual patient experience is between the trade unions, both nationally and internationally, should be on the table. Nesvik was aware that it is necessary to gain international experience in this area as well, and I have previously, as far back as 2000 or 2001, I think it was, raised the question of organising a consensus conference. It's done in many other areas with good experience, and then you just get on the table the research that has been in the field, the knowledge and the experience, and I think that is necessary in this case precisely because this is an ever-recurring problem. Such a consensus conference could bring together the professional communities — neurologists, orthopaedics, general practitioners and, in particular, patient organisations — to get all the knowledge, experience and information on the table and then work to reach a consensus and get the same understanding of the reality of what is actually available from knowledge and treatment and rehabilitation opportunities. I think it is positive, as the Council of State said, that the Health Directorate will invite the patient organisations to a meeting to clarify the disagreements that are clearly there. It's positive. But I think the most important thing now is to organise such a consensus conference, and then my specific question is to the Council of State: will the Council of State now take such an initiative and ensure that it is carried out at the earliest possible time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e211	I thank the interpellant for addressing this matter, which has been addressed in various ways in the past. I guess there are two issues here. One applies to the treatment of patients with neck length injury. The other is the relationship with the insurance companies, which is a matter in itself. I'm going to focus first of all on the first one. The questions we can raise, because we are constantly being asked that we do not get good enough treatment and diagnosis in Norway, are whether the diagnosis here is not good enough, and whether the primary doctors catch up well enough. The Council of State was aware that there might be a need for a higher level of competence in the primary medical system. It is true that if you are not diagnosed, you will very easily fall outside the treatment system. It is part of this issue that I perceive the representative to a large extent. Some people probably go abroad because they just don't get enough diagnostics. I think this is very serious. Once diagnosed, there are questions as to whether treatment is good enough in Norway. Obviously, there is a disagreement about this. The Council of State says that he is dependent on the assessment by professionals of whether you receive adequate treatment. Of course, a government council is not a trade union. But my question is, who is the most competent person here? In fact, it's not always our professional community that has the best skills. In some cases, I think I dare say that patients may have as good competence as specialists. At least we see that this is the case with the somewhat newer diagnostics we have. I can do other examples. I can take the ME case. I can take the gane children. How many discussions have we had in this room and otherwise about the disagreement we find in the trade unions about these disease groups, where we have repeatedly ended up saying, well, the patients knew more than the professionals, because it's the people who know this about the body. I think it is positive that the Council of State should initiate a discussion between the Directorate of Health and the working party. But when the Council of State gets such clear answers from the Health Directorate that we are professionally good enough, that we provide good enough treatment, and if it is right that the association for the patient group believes the opposite, I would recommend that it be with people from the department and would like one from political leadership in such a meeting, so that you do not get a meeting where only two parties who strongly disagree meet. As far as the representative Sonja Sjøli was concerned, I fully agree. We have many good experiences from consensus conferences, which at least agree on something that can be implemented. I guess I have a feeling that I really don't understand why we can't make these guidelines that have been called so many times. So my question to the Council of State is, once you've had the meetings you're supposed to have, can't you have a consensus conference too? Then you can have a plan that will end up with guidelines, so you can create predictability for this patient group. At least you know what you're entitled to. And again, I think diagnosis here might be one of the most important things.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e224	It is good to see that the government parties have no interest in this matter at all! I'm not going to say anything more. When you know that an insurance settlement for people with neck injuries in Norway has a treatment period of nine years, and you know that people with neck injuries do not get an ISO-certified functional picture of the transition between head and neck according to WHO guidelines as long as the case is an insurance case, you should understand that this is not a fruitful way to go. It should be mandatory — and it must be if the neck injury is to receive adequate treatment and follow-up in Norway — to have a functional image when one has been injured, regardless of whether it is an insurance case or not. An investigation of neck injuries in Norway should be based on an objectively complex sample where double roles and self-interests must be clearly separated from the patient’s needs in order to obtain an objective assessment of the condition. Furthermore, in today’s situation it would be right to allow some form of ‘second opinion’, for foreign specialists to become the appeal body for all those who believe that personal legal protection in Norway has not been adequately protected. It could also be an idea that doctors who currently work as hospital specialists do not have the opportunity to print a statement in private practice but print a statement on behalf of the individual hospital or health care establishment according to Isa 10. This would transfer responsibility from individual prostheses to the public hospital company, thereby opening up the possibility of review by the forensic commission, which is currently unable to address civil matters. That's where the big challenge lies. Many people feel that they are without legal protection in Norway, but at the same time the system is made in such a way that it is inviolable. Then I talk about people who have so many pain problems that many people consider suicide. What are the consequences that the Council of State believes a neck injury has for the environment of a private individual who is exposed to it? [[President clubs]] You should take it far more seriously than you do today. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e236	The President will remind you that when the red lamp goes out, the speaking time is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e239	Of course, I'm going to try to follow up what's pointed out by the speakers, in the most active and positive way possible. I just want to say that with regard to the report produced by the Health Directorate in 2006, the task was to review the offer for people with neck injuries in Norway. The aim was for professional environments to update treatment methods and agree on what is good and proper treatment. For example, you had to do this. acquire knowledge of national and international methods, as provided for by the knowledge centre, assess the adequacy of medical competence in Norway, and establish professional guidelines for the treatment of complex neck injuries in Norway. As much of what is requested is what you have been working on in the 2006 report. But I have noticed, of course, that the submissions have pointed out that there is a need once again to make an assessment of international experience. Strong points of view are encouraged that organising consensus conferences can be a right approach. It is underlined that it is important to have a user perspective and that current users have a high level of competence over their own suffering. Reference is made to the extensive work done in developing professional guidelines, professional guidance and recommendations around it. Of course, I'll take this with me. As I said, it's already decided from the Health Directorate that there should be a new meeting with the user organisations, and I'll make sure that these moments are present in that meeting in such a way that it can go in a positive direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e246	The debate on substance is closed. So 1 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e262	Development of organ transplantation medical activities is one of the most important advances in medicine over the past 30 years. It is from one point of view an unprecedented positive development that knowledge and technical skills have come so far that it is possible to extend human life and also improve the quality of life significantly. There is no one who can be against or have concerns about. There has also been a broad consensus in the Committee and in the Storting that the objectives of the Government, by the autumn of 2007, in improving the opportunities for these activities, are correct and good. However, as the knowledge front moves and the possibility of new forms of medical treatment is opened, new legislation is also needed. What happened when we got the transplant law in the 1970s was primarily that a new legal definition of death was needed: when death occurs, and what criteria are used to establish this. Everyone can see that this is essential. In the past – I had almost said – operations were performed on the assumption that there was no need for such a legal definition, because the simplest characteristics, breathing, etc., were used to determine when death occurred. In the same 30-year period, we have, at the same time, increasingly developed legal rules and principles that state that the individual has an unconditional right to informed consent and that no medical treatment or research activity is to be carried out without the requirements for informed consent being met. That's the connection between these two developments that is the background for me finding it right to invite the Storting to debate this right now. The concrete premise is the media essays on the problem of corneal transplantation, the intervention of the Council of State in this area in clarifying the legislation, and the opinions of both the Council of State itself and some of its government colleagues in the public debate. Finally, I aim to ensure that the Solhjell Council has clearly gone into the public debate and proposed that the principle should be reflected, that is. that – to say it a little simple and popular – everything is allowed unless the patient himself has made a written reservation in advance. The burden of proof, therefore, does not lie with the public authority, as in today's legislation, which is to ensure that the deceased or the immediate relatives are in agreement with the intervention. The burden of proof lies in the opposite direction, namely in the patient subject to a particular form of treatment. Once I've found it right to raise this debate, it's because I fundamentally disagree with this thinking. I believe that both medicine and future patients are doing a serious bear service if, in the service of the good cause – for everyone agrees that the purpose is good – it is proposed to remove the requirement for informed consent because it is so difficult, and because it limits the scope of the business. The reason why I'm fundamentally skeptical about this is partly the experience from other countries, which I'm going to come back to, which shows that where you've tried this, it's had the very opposite effect of what was meant, that a lot more people have become skeptical and have turned on and registered that they don't want it. So you're at risk of achieving the opposite of what you want. But even if you had achieved what you wanted, I would think that in principle it is reprehensible, anyway. Why? Well, because it's continuing a heavy trend in medical activities that's much older than the last 30 years, that's the basic form of paternalism that says that what people don't know, they haven't hurt. It is the professionals who know best, and if the professionals think this is right, they should not be bothered, with transparency at all. The second is that if you were to assume a so-called 'presumed consent', namely that whoever did not say 'on the contrary', has actually given permission to the interventions you might want, yes, you are risking having just the recyling effect of the fact that those who are employed in the healthcare system, and those who know what is going on, are likely to make use of the right of reservation to a large extent, while those who do not know about it will not make use of it, simply because they did not know that it was necessary to make a reservation. We've seen this in other areas that are adjacent to this. For example: It has been quite clear that to the extent that people have explicitly done so, there have been people who themselves work in the health care system. It cannot be that, in principle, the population is to be divided into two categories: those who are understood because they are part of the professional establishment, and those who are not understood and who do not get knowledge of what is happening at all. This raises a fundamental problem, which not only affects health legislation but also affects fundamental parts of other legislation. We have a burial law in this country that also has long cultural historical traditions, and that assumes that it is not society, it is not the state, that has a duty to care for the dead body after a human being has gone away. It is the closest relatives — and it is explicitly defined in at least detail in the legislation in which order — who are both responsible for and entitled to decide what is going to happen, and take care to ensure that it does so in accordance with the main guidelines in force. If you were to introduce the principle of turning the mirror, it was implicitly assumed that in the moment that one of us departs at death, we are the property of society. And society has the right to do what society finds right at all times, with the body of the deceased. That, I think, is ideologically and fundamentally a basic conclusion of error, and it would have drastic consequences if you accepted that idea. It must be clear that each of us has both a right to and an obligation to think through and – I would have said – take a position on how we want our own body to be treated. I think the right line has to bet on maximum transparency. We cannot inform ourselves about this widely enough. If you want to expand your organ donation business, at least you shouldn't get involved in legal clues about what is tissue, and what are organs, because I think that's a dead end you should avoid. It is appropriate to take into account the more solar principle that informed consent should apply throughout the entire spectrum in this area as well, and that the task of the authorities is to facilitate the widest possible, best-possible information for all and to stimulate individuals to discuss this with their closest relatives in time, so that, after a person has gone away, there is no doubt as to what he himself wanted and did not wish in this area. So I think that our current transplant law is right in terms of the principal approaches, and I think that the answer to the challenge of corneal transplants must be the best information and informed consent.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e292	I think this is very interesting and exciting topic to discuss. Norway is well advanced in organ transplantation in the event of irreversible organ failure, i.e. failure of the heart, lungs, kidneys, liver or pancreas. But we're going to get better. It is a national target to increase the number of donations from 21 donations per. million inhabitants today at 30 donations per year. million inhabitants. I agree with the representative of Wage that it is necessary to strengthen the work of organ donation, so that more people can get help through transplantation. As important as increasing the number of donors, it is to respect the deceased and the relatives — who have lost one of their loved ones. The donation of organs and other biological material is currently regulated by the 1973 Transplant Act and by Circular I-6/2008, which deals with organ donation and consent. The objective of circular visibility is to: promoting organ donation from the deceased where donation may be appropriate to help healthcare professionals address the issue of organ donation with the closest relatives contributing to the follow-up of the will of the deceased, where he or she has expressed his or her position on the issue of clarifying the relationship between the will of the deceased and the perception of the nearest relatives; Many argue that the 1973 Transplant Act should be reviewed in order to adapt data protection requirements and to see which issues should be regulated by law. Today’s law does not regulate the information and involvement of patients and their relatives in a good enough way. And questions of quality and safety in the handling of organs are not formally regulated. It may be appropriate, where appropriate, to reduce a wide-ranging sample for this work. Information and consent questions will be an important part of any mandate to such a selection. I think the interpellant is right when he stresses the need to maintain a system of informed consent. I shall openly and honestly admit that it is a question I have thought about myself and be open in my approach to. But not least the conversations I have had with the trade union community have strengthened me very much in the belief that it is entirely right to maintain a system of informed consent, and not to have what I thought the interpellant described well as a system of opposite approaches, i.e. if you have not reserved yourself, you have agreed. I feel it quite strongly when the professional community so clearly to me at least warns very much against changing it – not, I think, based on some other main reason than that one simply believes it will work against its purpose, as well as that one of course has some ethical and other types of reasoning. But at the same time, I think it's a good idea to think through it in the context of regulation, because a system of informed consent can also be organised in many ways. For example, many people have told me that it might be a good idea to create a donor register based on informed consent, for example. decision-makers have a role to play in addressing this issue with their list patients, discussing it, asking them to decide on it, and possibly to implement their informed consent by registering in a donor register. I'm not saying now that I'm for it, but I'm saying that these are examples of things we should discuss, and so we're going to have an opportunity to do that through a broad assessment of today's law. I would also like to stress that the European Commission has recently proposed a directive on standards of quality and safety for human organs intended for transplantation. The question of consent is very sensitive and raises a number of ethical issues to be considered by each country. A general principle is that each Member State should ensure that organ donation is made on a voluntary basis and free of charge. The general rule in our transplant law is that consent is required. The first paragraph of Section 2 of the Transplant Act states that organs and other biological material may be ‘taken for the treatment of disease or bodily injury in another’ – if the deceased have made a decision on it, in writing or orally. The proportion of family members who say no to organ donation has increased from 23 to 29 pst. on an annual basis. I think it is primarily because several relatives are asked about the dead person's attitude to organ donation. The Foundation Organ Donation is working to make as many decisions as possible on organ donation, including: is distributed in more than 3 million copies. The foundation will receive 1 million in 2009. NOK in increased grants for their work. If the deceased has not made any provision for organ donation, organ donation may be carried out — provided that the immediate relatives of the deceased or the deceased have not spoken against it, that the intervention will not be contrary to the life-view of the deceased or his immediate loved one, or when other specific reasons speak against it. In practice, the closest of the deceased is always asked if they know the deceased person’s attitude to organ donation. There has been doubt as to whether the donation of corneas is covered by the general rules for organ donation and consent. It has been unclear whether or not corneal extraction can be considered a minor intervention. Policy has therefore varied. Section 6 of the Transplant Act states that the collection of blood, the removal of smaller skin parts and other minor interventions similar to these may occur without prejudice to the provisions of the law. I believe that information and transparency about the donation of corneas is a prerequisite for ensuring the legitimacy of organ donation in the population. Therefore, corneal harvesting shall not be considered as a minor intervention under the law. I have clarified this in a circular from the ministry, so that rules on information and consent will apply when the corneas are removed for transplantation. I have assured myself that practices in this area have changed. In Ullevål University Hospital, the eye department and organ donation section shall now cooperate to identify patients who may be relevant corneal donors. I have given guidance signals to the regional health companies that consent should be obtained. Furthermore, corneal donation activities shall be organised separately from other donations. The Foundation Organ donation will from this year include the donation of corneas in its information work. In fact, in a few years you think you'll be able to develop corneas based on stem cells. Research has gone a long way, and that means there will be less need for corneas from dead people. Today, the professional community estimates that 300 corneal transplants are needed this year. Finally, the work on increasing the number of organ donations is an important task. The Ministry of Health and Welfare appointed a working group in November 2007 to propose the measures to be taken in this area. The report, which came in April, is now being followed up by the Health Directorate. Particular attention shall be paid to three areas: to strengthen the national organ donation coordinator function, to establish a national panel of experts on organ donation and transplantation and the Secretariat for the development of an action plan on chronic kidney disease, focusing on prevention and early treatment in primary health services; I look forward to the further work in this important area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e353	I thank the Council of State for the answer, and will express my satisfaction with the principle approach to the matter on the part of the Council of State. Obviously, we're completely in line there. I also note that the views of the Council of State are probably the views of the Government, despite the fact that other members of the Government have expressed the very opposite view in the public debate. I am very pleased with that. In concrete terms, experience in the Netherlands when trying to make legislation based on the mirrored principle showed that this led to a dramatic increase in the amount of reservations. That was 33 pst. of the population who immediately registered in a register and who said no on the contrary. So we clearly share the idea that this will work against its purpose. But as I said in my main post, I would think that although it did not work against its purpose, it would be wrong simply for principle reasons, because it would be a step back in the policy that otherwise applies to all activities in the healthcare system, namely that user participation and the patient's right of self-determination and the requirement for adequate health care information should be the basis for all treatment. Just a small note: I have nothing against the state council setting up a selection to investigate the need for possible updating and further detailing the legislation in this area, but will perhaps only be a little careful with too quickly jumping on the idea of donor records, whether they are turned one way or the other. The Council of Europe carried out a comprehensive assessment of this in an expert study in 2007 and found that all countries that have tried registry solutions have largely had negative experience with it. See: ‘The establishment of donor registers has not been shown in any country to lead to an increase in organ donation for transplantation. Such records are expensive to establish, are expensive to operate and cannot be closed.» So I think that, before going into that road in Norway, we should at least carefully evaluate the experiences that are there from other countries. And if those experiences are as negative as the Council of Europe's report suggests, it's obviously not the way to go.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e367	I don't have much to add, I just want to stress that much of the background to wanting to review the law is simply that one believes that even though this law, the law of transplantation, which when it came in 1973, was a very modern and forward-looking law, and completely possible to live with still, the more professional feedback to me is that the law is now beginning to become old-fashioned, to use a simple expression, and that there is a need for a review of the law, and that important parts of the practice, for example. what the representative is concerned about, i.e. this with informed consent, is not clear enough in the law. There are also a number of other important aspects relating to how the body in question is to be cared for. That's why I think it's right to listen to it and do a review of the law. I also believe that this is the right opportunity to carry out a slightly more comprehensive review, both because it creates debate and attention on an important topic, and because it is a very important area in principle. And we don't have any hurry. That's why we can walk the path of a wide selection, and get a good review. I also think it is right in principle not to limit the scope of action of the sample as much as possible before it starts, but let it assess conditions for and against. Then I would think that the important thing that the representative on the payroll said here about challenges related to a donor register would be natural knowledge to consider for such a sample. Then we get an up-to-date Norwegian assessment of the area. My point of view is well in the direction that this will end with the fact that today's system is essentially continuing, but then we have taken the opportunity to review such an important area. And that might be wise.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e376	It is important to create positive and reassuring conditions around the work of donations. Therefore, it is important and positive that the need to clean up the consent issue is now being addressed, as both the inter-pellant and the Council of State mentions. I think it is important here that we do not over-dimension or trivialise the problem, that is, that we do not create undue anxiety and concern. Nor should we do so in the kind of discussion to which the reverse consent was referred. I believe that for the most vital and major donation tasks related to the lungs, kidneys, heart, etc., it has been and is reassuring and comprehensive procedures around informed consent and arrangements for conversation with relatives at our 25 donor hospitals. In 2007, the Stortinget earmarked funds to build up these routines and improve the quality of the training of donor teams that could be able to conduct such good, necessary conversations at the right time. We've earmarked 10.6 million. kr to it, and there was also a positive trend in the number of donations during 2007. It is clear that it is demanding to conduct these conversations in a good way, and there is a strong reason why they have been built on informed consent. The same thing has been done for the Foundation Organ Donation, which has received 1 million. kr extra from Stortinget this year to strengthen their work. All of that work is based on the same principle. So I think that in practice this has been strongly fixed in the work done around the Norwegian health care system. If then there are things that need to be put in place in addition to the legal, it's clear that it's good, but I think in practice this is also going on in reassuring forms today. When corneas are now clearly defined by the Council of State as organs, not as tissues and not as a minor intervention, it is positive that the same procedures and the same quality of consent issues and ethical considerations are also ensured here. It's also important to be aware of some of the differences in the practical work here, because in the case of corneas, you could spend longer. The number of potential donors is not as limited in relation to acute death and short timeframes as for the other bodies we have previously focused on the Storting. It's important to work around the health system, not to limit the potential, i.e. the number of possible donors, not to be aware that this cannot be treated as one group of possible donors. It's also important to be aware that what you're about to add to the donation of corneas is that you can do it now without having to remove your eyes, so that the procedure becomes less extensive in that way. There will also be a better basis for the calls to receive more donations of the cornea. Because it's clear that the number that's needed is higher than the number for most of the other organs that we work at to get more donations. Therefore, we must now make sure that the strength of the work in order to obtain as much as possible donations of the cornea is not reduced after the clarification that is now being carried out, because it is about helping people. The main goal, how we can get a continued increase in the number of donations, is to focus on, on which the interpellant was initially involved, and also the Council of State. There were 76 donations in Norway in 2006. There were 94 in 2007, after the escalation I mentioned of the earmarked funds, etc. from Stortinget, and that was 98 in 2008, i.e. just a slight increase. Both the Stortinget and the Department have said that we need approx. 135 donations – each donation can give 7-8 organs – of the major groups: liver, kidney, heart, etc. So in terms of the increase, we're halfway to the goal of where we were in 2006, when there were 76 donations, when we had 98 in 2008. I think it is important to have a supportive and good ethical framework, but the main focus must still be: How do you get more donations? How do more people who depend on us to be better off here help us save lives and play disease?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e397	The interpellant addresses several issues in its interpellation. We have the fundamental debate on whether to mirror today's system – whether to agree to take out organs or to have the opposite system. I'd like to address that issue first. I find it reassuring that the Council of State confirms that he has the same view as the representative of Wage, a view that I too would like to make clear that I have. I think it would be totally wrong to do as Bård Vegar Solhjell has called for through the media, to reflect today's system. There are important fundamental reasons for this, but it is also important in relation to the debate, as the representative for pay. I also think you'll get the opposite effect of what you want to achieve. So I am very pleased with the views of the Council of State and also with the debate that the representative of Wage has addressed in this area. So, of course, the second part of this big debate is how we can get even better. How are we going to be able to put in place that even more of those who are in line today to receive an organ are going to have this opportunity to extend their lives or get a better life? In that debate, I must be allowed to congratulate both the Foundation Organ Donation and the transplant team at the Rikshospitalet, and also the Council of State and the Department for the work done. Now I also think that the debate that has been in Stortinget over the last few years has given us an increased focus on this field. It's important. We set a new record in 2008 in the number of transplants in Norway. This shows that the debate that we have had and the work that has been done have actually borne fruit. We're supposed to be happy about that. But anyway, it's relatively far up to the measurement numbers that we've set ourselves. That's why it's important that we don't now rest on our laurels. It's important that in the future we have not only continued to focus on, but increased focus on how to get even better. Are we sure that the donor doctors have the time to go out in our 25 donor hospitals to do the job that is needed? Is the training of personnel really in place, so that you can talk to relatives after death? Because it's quite obvious that that conversation is difficult. You need both support and time, and you need skills to make this conversation. Then this is important. And then it's also shown that the Foundation Organ Donation gets $1 million to be able to continue the work that they're doing, and that's important. Because I think the very tip of this field is the Foundation Organ Donation and the job you're doing. It's about getting these cards out where you can sign that you want to be a donor. And it is not least that there is an ongoing debate on the subject. Because I think the conversation around the kitchen table or in the quiet at home of the individual may be the most important arena to focus on this and to get up the number of donors in Norway. When it comes to a central register, I'm very skeptical. The Foundation Organ Donation has also stated that there is a great deal of scepticism about this, and the representative for Wage was concerned about what is happening in the EU system, where work has been done on this. How good are we to get inspiration from other countries and knowledge of what other countries have done? The country in Europe that may be the foremost in this field is Spain. I think we have a lot to learn. Fortunately, it looks like we're on the right track. We're getting increased access, i.e. that more people are being rescued. In addition, Norway has a very positive location related to the use of donor organs. Here we are very high up. I hope that the work can be intensified further, and I look forward to seeing that we set ever new records.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e412	When you have debates in the main hall, it's like the disagreement it's focused on. That's often what the media is also busy about. That's why I think it's a shame that the media doesn't better cover this kind of debate. As it becomes visible, the large consensus between the government parties and the opposition is. Several have promoted the Foundation Organ Donation. As part of preparing me for this interpellation debate today, yesterday my adviser and I had a meeting with the leader there, Hege Lundin Kuhle. I want to join those who have given very strong praise to the Organ Donation Foundation. We have seen a debate in public space, among other things. about a reversal of the principle that everyone should be an organ donor unless one has made a reservation, as the Foundation has warned against. They have also warned against the creation of a register, based on knowledge of the consequences in other countries. I have heard from the Foundation Organ Donation, but also from others – I wonder if the Government has not made the same progress – that, among other things, Spain’s approach has been very successful. There's a lot of donors there, and very few people make reservations. It has been achieved through the publicity of organ donation and close cooperation with the population. I don't think it's any other way to increase the number of donors than by -- let's say -- removing the fear that after his death you'll almost be subjected to an assault, or that the family will experience that the deceased person gets rid of organs without being made aware of it. I remember a few years ago that in the then Social Committee we had a visit by a pathologist from one of the major hospitals who strongly argued for less publicity about this, because they experienced – it was then autopsy – that greater focus had given more scepticism. I think the approximation has to be the exact opposite. If not healthcare professionals with transparency and in dialogue with those concerned explain what this is about, scepticism will increase in the population, and more people will reserve themselves. The scepticism of a register may well be due to the fact that updating such a register would be virtually impossible. This means that if you don't find anyone in a register, you can at worst experience that there's some kind of reservation in it, while he may have actually said yes through a donor card. I think it's worth listening to that skepticism from the Organ Donation Foundation as well. I record that the interpellant and the Council of State seem to have completely coincident vision here, and that others who have taken the word have the same view. I think that's a great strength. It is a great strength if we are able to create security about what is going to happen in terms of organ donation, and to be able to argue the same way in relation to the population, stand in close dialogue with them and not create a conflict situation around it, because it will obviously lead to more than one reservation. Then I register that Inge Wohnung in the interpellation text has used a term – whether it is deliberately chosen, I don't know – that it would have been good to clarify. It says: ‘However, it is essential that organ donation is based on informed and explicit consent of the donor or relative.’; I perceive from conversation with the Foundation Organ Donation, and also from professionals, that what you get today is an consent after conversation, while the term ‘informed consent’ is a legal term that goes a lot further in many ways, because you have to have a written explanation. You must have a signed piece of paper and it is required by law more than by the general term ‘consent’. I have heard warnings against it, and you have to find the balance that makes you go not too far in demanding a red tape of today's consent system, which I also think there is reason to be responsive to. That doesn't mean that you're kind of going to ask for an authorisation that's not there, but it may be that a journal based on an oral conversation, without going much further in a kind of informed consent, is the approach you should have, as you've had to. In terms of corneal transplantation, I think Bjarne Håkon Hanssen's approach was very elucidating, because here you have to choose the same approach as in organ transplantation. In the real sense, there's a tissue transplant and not a transplant of an organ, but the principle of transparency is also important here, so that no one gets the impression that you're kind of getting along without a prior approval.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e439	I think this has been a joyful debate, which, as I see it, has gone after two main steps: one leads to that we all have a common goal of increasing the number of transplants and thus also the number of donations. The second track goes on the more principled. I suppose I can really join everything that has been said – mostly – because all parties have said the same when it comes to the piece, at least when it comes to the nucleus. The beginning of this week was very pleasant for us who are concerned about the problem, with the press release that was based on the Foundation Organ Donation, which has shown that the number of transplants and donations is increasing. The increased appropriations adopted here in the Grand Duchy in 2007 and the introduction of DRG credits in 2008 have also helped to improve this situation. The important thing we did in the fall was to increase support for the Foundation Organ Donation. I personally believe, and the Center Party believes, that just being able to strengthen the information work around what donation actually involves will increase the number that would say yes. It involves information about the dignity and respect of the donation team at the Rikshospital, and how they treat the deceased at all stages – that is anonymity, so that everyone can be sure that everything is neat and very proper. Getting out information about how donation and transplantation are actually going on, and creating a security around it, I think is one of the most important things to increase the upsurge further, so that in a difficult and demanding phase, the relatives say yes to organ donation. What is fundamentally important in this debate, and which, for the Central Party, is very important, is that it is the individual and family who must have full and complete control of how the body of the deceased is to be used. As for the increased allocation of information work, we believe that people through more knowledge and more information will feel even more secure about donation, because the work that is done is done with the greatest respect and dignity compared to the deceased.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e457	The left is entirely on the line with the interpellant in that organ donation must be based on informed and express consent from the donor or relative. I'm very happy that the Council of State also seemed to be completely united in this. As far as I can understand when I hear the post of Olav Gunnar Ballo in the debate today, so far SV must be on line here, and not what we have heard from Bård Vegar Solhjell before, that a would mirror this promise so that organ donation after death can automatically be used. We've seen SV and Solhell go out with that before, but I now understand that all the parties that have said something in this room today are some of the things that the interpellant has expressed. I thought that was a very nice clarification. My left and I believe that to increase organ donation there is a need for better organisation. We need more cooperation, and we need some financial resources. But perhaps the most important thing is that we all dare to take the difficult conversation about donating organs that many have been involved in. Here information is very important. The debate we have today is important for us to be able to talk more about what it is about, that one must be able to give organs from the dead, and that one can discuss it. As others have said, the Foundation Organ Donation has done a great job and a great job in this context. It is important that Norwegian organ donation has a sufficient economy to carry out its important work. Information and good stories about organ donation are also important. I just read in a magazine that Health West gives out, about a mother who went out with a story about organ donation. It was a great story. It was a story of a mother who lost it one daughter saying, where the mother decided that the organs would become donor organs. As a result, three different people could receive vital help. Mother later stated that in the great grief of losing her daughter, she felt that she could do something for others. I think that's going to be the situation for a lot of other people as well. I thought it was a nice story that was presented in a nice way. She also said she was treated with enormous respect. One important moment, which I think we have to take with us when we think about how to better organise this, is that she said she was followed up for two years later. She said it meant a lot and it was very important. This story shows that we must think seriously, seriously, and far. It doesn't help to pinch your fingers and think we're going to get more donations going. We have to do a thorough job, we have to have a thorough organization and good information. Otherwise, I just want to take a little hint about this with a register. I want to signal that the left is very skeptical of such a register. I think it would work against its purpose. Finally, I want to ask a question. Today, the Rikshospitalet operates with transplant operations. But could it be relevant to, for example, Haukeland University Hospitals can operate with organ donation from live donors, so that we can increase our capacity? Is there a possibility that you might think about improving the situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e473	This interpellant debate is probably the closest one to a national consensus conference, held in the staging room. I think that is very welcome, because it shows that there is a very broad cross-political consensus on the basic principles to govern development in this area. And when it's joyous, it's because it's a confirmation that there are certain elementary things in our common cultural tradition that are still in place. The basic principle of habeas corpus, that every human being has the right to determine his own body, and the principle of respect for the individual's bodily integrity, fortunately, is still in the back of all of us. I would just like to say to the representative, Mr Ballo, that the method of interpretation of the interpellation is not intended in itself to comply with the technical, legal rules on research activity, because that is where the technical concept of ‘informed consent’ belongs. But that's an important analogy to that, because the reason that the rules that have become as explicit as they are is that the basic principle for all medical treatments is otherwise that it should be done for the benefit of the patient. And if it is to serve purposes other than the patient's own best, the principles of information about the purposes and what the intervention is shall be fully respected. In this area, of course, there is a completely different situation, as it relates to a person who can no longer express his position, and therefore cannot be asked the right person. But the principle must then be that no one should, in the role that has left behind, be in a situation where one experiences that one suddenly becomes aware that someone has done something with the body of the deceased without being informed about it. Because that could be a situation where the survivor knows that the deceased would have opposed this, and that is a situation that is totally unacceptable. No human being should be in that situation. That's why I'm glad that there's a hundred percent consensus at this point, and that what has to be the instrument here, has to be factual, proper information and maximum transparency about these issues. Then I just have to add that for my part, I also think it is very gratifying that all those who have commented on the question of register as an instrument in this context have expressed doubt and scepticism about it. I think that's a pleasure, too.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e484	I also want to express that there has been an interesting debate. I agree with the representative, Ballo, that it is not only when we disagree that it is interesting to listen to big debates. This debate has been absolutely worth listening to. The only thing I'm going to comment on until the end is the exact same thing as the representative on the payroll was at the end, and that was the starting point of what Ballo said about the concept of ‘informed consent’. I just want to stress from my point of view that when I also used the term ‘informed consent’ in my post, I believe that this means that the relatives should have received information and have agreed to it. I am not trying to use that term to signal that there will be new demands to meet the legal term ‘informed consent’.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e491	The debate on substance is closed. 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e507	I have encouraged this interpellation to have a debate here in Stortingen with the Council of State on how the Government intends to deal with the work currently being done in the EU around the Small Business Act. Because it is an incredibly important work that the EU has now undertaken towards its Member States to make them observant in order to have an active and robust industrial policy towards its small and medium-sized enterprises. We know that Norwegian companies will survive in global competition, and Norway is also dependent on being very close to having good framework conditions, and especially when our neighbouring countries, which are EU members, are active in this. For example, it is easy for Norwegian companies to establish themselves. in Sweden and Denmark. There are few barriers to doing so, since we have a common culture and a common language tradition. Now we – not just Norway, but the whole world – are in a challenging economic situation. It will also affect small and medium-sized enterprises. We need to see to what extent this will affect the Norwegian economy in the future, but it is quite clear that this will affect our small and medium-sized enterprises, because our business life consists mainly of small and medium-sized enterprises. I will not now repeat all the facts about the importance of small and medium-sized enterprises in Norwegian business and in Norwegian economy; this is fully understood by the Council of State. But small and medium-sized enterprises are the enterprises that run the economy. These are the companies where most of them have their jobs, and these are the companies we're in contact with every day. But this must not just be a debate about the current situation in the context of the financial crisis. To maintain a sound and active industrial policy for SMEs, it is not just a matter of crisis situations. That's something you do over a long time. The long-term predictability of industrial policy needs to be strong, so that industry believes and trusts that Norwegian authorities are pursuing such a predictable policy. Then it is my opinion that it is important that Norway, as a small country in a corner of the world, which is dependent on an open and solid international economy and on international trade, is in the forefront of industrial policy. There we have had a tradition in Norway that we have often come into behind us in relation to other countries, including our neighbouring countries. I want to ask the question whether Norway is at the forefront of the policy of our small and medium-sized enterprises, which play such a significant role in our economy. After this interpellation was submitted, the government has promoted an innovation message, I am aware of that. We are not going to take the debate on this matter here, because the Business Committee has not started work on this matter. However, it is quite clear that the Government in that Communication will provide a number of positive actions for small and medium-sized enterprises. I could imagine that instead of just referring to what is in that communication, the Council of States is also deepening more the work being done in the EU. I have also registered in the press that the Government has announced that it will present a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. I would like to challenge the Council of State on what she actually sees as containing the work, when such a strategy is intended to be promoted, and whether that strategy is to be presented to the Stortinge. What we have seen from the three food and trade ministers we have had so far in this big period is that a number of action plans have been presented. We have the maritime plan, we have it on simplification of legislation, and we have it for travel life, among other things, which are action plans presented by the Government but which have not been presented to the Stortinget. I want, as a representative of the opposition, to be relatively critical of such a work method, because it excludes in a way the opposition from making useful input into such a work. I would warn the Council of State, if she intends to put forward such a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises, against doing so through an ordinary case to the Grand Duchy, so that the Grand Duchy can agree on good measures for small and medium-sized enterprises. We have now entered a new year, and in 2008 it turns out that the number of bankruptcies has increased. There will be fewer start-ups, and several analysts indicate that in 2009 the number of bankruptcies will increase, and unemployment in the wake of this will also increase. This means that we must have an active policy in view of this. I will not approach any EU debate on this issue, but the EU has put forward a clear ambition in small business policy through the Small Business Act. I think it's very nice what they say with the expression "less red tape and more red carpet". That's very indicative. So you're going to have less bureaucracy, but more red runners. There is also something that should characterise our industrial policy – building barriers and giving businesses greater and better opportunities. They also say that entrepreneurs should be applauded and rewarded, because they are the whole rootstock of our society. And society must have a small-scale business policy. Unnecessary barriers must be removed to facilitate the start-up of enterprises. Legislation must not create barriers to the creation of SMEs and all new legislation must be subject to an SME test. It's an incredibly good principle. Thus, before regulations and new laws are drawn up, all public authorities have to run them through an SME test. In such a process, a lot of obstacles will also be removed — or prevent new barriers from coming. It is a recommendation from the European Commission in relation to its Member States, but the tradition is that the Member States follow up on the policy recommended. Ten main principles are set out here, to be followed by the Member States in their industrial policy design. A dedicated SME portal has also been set up to facilitate access for those operating small and medium-sized enterprises and for those wishing to set up a new business. The principle shall be: the possibility of starting a new enterprise shall take a maximum of one week. – The time is running out, but I'm now going to sum up giving the Council of State Brustad two challenges. One is: how will she now follow up the work of the Small Business Act here at home? And: How has she planned to develop work on a strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises, and is there one thing that we here in Stortinget also get involved in the treatment of?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e533	The interpellant addresses an important issue, as there is no doubt that small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of Norwegian business. As you know, the whole 95 pst. by Norwegian enterprises less than 10 employees. Against this background, it is said that it is important to pay particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises, and that a great deal of the work done over a number of years to improve the framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises in general, also largely benefiting small and medium-sized enterprises. Small and medium-sized enterprises are also important for the Norwegian economy. As the interpellant also had it, we are in a troubled time. It is clear that the role of small businesses is particularly important now, and it will also be important in the action package with which the Government is now working. I am pleased that the representative Asmyhr felt that there were positive proposals in the innovation message that were presented before Christmas, including in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises. When we want to develop an overall industrial policy strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises, it is because I believe, like the representative and certainly everyone in this Chamber, that there is still a need to do even more to this type of enterprise. So the Storting is also invited through the innovation message to think something about it. As I said before, it will be natural that the government will also focus on this in the action package. I believe what's important here is both doing what's needed in the short term, giving the situation we're in, and at the same time having a long-term perspective, where the innovation message and the treatment that the Storting is going to have of it and such a strategy is important. We want on our part to have a broad approach to this work. That means that we have and will in the future have close dialogue with representatives of the companies seagoing. That's why, in the big news too, I have announced that we are going to establish a strategic council, as we have in many areas, with which the Storting is well known. In this context, it is representatives of small and medium-sized enterprises who are involved in and strengthen the dialogue between the Government and the business community in the work of precisely these enterprises. It's because it's seaworthy, in this area as in other areas, that it's those who work in these companies, who know what it takes to make the situation even better. In this work, it is also natural to draw inspiration from the EU Small Business Act, as the representative here pointed out. On 25 June, when the European Commission presented its package of measures to improve the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises in Europe, the background was that the EU also recognises the importance of the smallest enterprises in the economy and wants to facilitate them better. As the representative and certainly all the other representatives here in the United Kingdom are familiar with, ten policy principles that the European Commission wants to lay the foundations for future policy and legislative design are presented. Among these principles, I believe that it can be pointed out that legislation should be designed in accordance with the small first principle. That is to say, one should consider having exceptions for small and medium-sized enterprises. Another important principle is to make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises to obtain funding and to deliberately stimulate the development of skills, research and innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises. I have also noticed that new forms of company are being proposed to facilitate cross-border operations, and that better funding opportunities and simplified procedures are being proposed for start-up operations. Some of the measures are also linked to legislative proposals. We have followed this work very closely from the Ministry of Industry and Trade, and we are also, as we know, directly affected by legislative changes related to the Small Business Act through the EEA Agreement. These processes are followed up by sea and assessed for inclusion in the EEA Agreement by the departments responsible. An example here is the legislative proposal for a new form of company, followed by the Ministry of Justice. With regard to several of the principles and proposals addressed, Norway has already done a great deal, and we also – I believe – have many good results to show. This applies, inter alia, to: access to capital, where we have good arrangements, including: through Innovation Norway, which, as we know, has already been strengthened in the autumn and will also be strengthened in the proposal we are included in the action package in the near future. We have a high level of preparedness, we are following the situation carefully, we are going to make new proposals, and we are also doing a good job of anchoring the small first principle, which is a very central part of what the EU is also working on. As Stortinget is well known, the Action Plan on simplification presented in August of this year states that in all investigations of new legislation, with the exception of the HMS area, there is a need to assess and differentiate between small and medium-sized enterprises and larger enterprises. Another element of the work of the European Union, for which we already have a good foundation in Norway, is attention to women entrepreneurs and their challenges, to mention something. So we're following up what the EU is doing here. I believe there is a lot we can pick up in relation to the work we are doing now. Over a long period of time, the government has worked systematically and focused on business simplification. After all, we presented the simplification action plan, which had more than 120 concrete actions. These are now being followed up. We also look at other measures, because there is no point in SMEs spending more time than is necessary to fill out forms. They should spend time producing and operating innovation and conversion, so we have to make sure that they don't spend more time on bureaucracy than is strictly necessary. Think little of the first principle is as well-known as one of the important actions of this action plan. We are now in the process of looking at how we will get a good enough hold on this principle in all investigations into new legislation in all departments. As very important in this effort to simplify and reduce the administrative costs of businesses, I would not least point to the great work we are now doing to further develop ALTINN – for which the Storting has decided in connection with the budget this year as well. In summary, I think the initiative of the representative is positive. From what I've heard, it looks like we're going a long way, pretty wide political, agreeing on a lot of what's there. For both short-term and long-term measures, it is particularly important to focus attention on small and medium-sized enterprises. There is also no doubt that we both pick up inspiration and look at many of the good proposals contained in what comes from the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e563	I would like to thank the Council of State for the feedback on the interpellation and my contribution. I think it's very positive that the Council of State puts this 'think small' principle in the high seat. It's incredibly important, because we're so dependent on the small businesses, and people are taking the chance to set up new businesses. Because it's those who dare to take the chance, who are going to employ us other people who are not risky enough. One of the most important things we legislators can do is to make things easier for those who are creative and who have so much “goods” that they dare to start their own businesses, but also dare to take the step it is to hire one person or two in addition to themselves. That's also how you build bigger businesses in the long run. The Innovation Communication will be debated later. We have now received a kind of state of emergency in Norwegian policy, because everything is about this package of measures to come on 26 January. The government will not answer any questions, no matter what the opposition asks for, but refers to the package of measures to come on 26 January. To put it this way: the package of measures should be good, for now the list has been so high and created so high that I believe that if there are no significant number of concrete measures in the package, measures that are easy to implement, there will be great disappointment in the business world. We in the opposition will contribute to that process by making our proposals and being watchmen and making sure that the Government does its job. I think it is positive that the Council of State will develop a Council for SME Policy. It's incredibly important to listen to business, and I hope that until the elections, the Council of State will continue to do so. The Council of State also referred to the Action Plan for Simplification. I have to remind you that the plan was not received without further ado with the company. It was said that there are a number of measures that should have been obviously implemented in the past and that they should have been much more offensive. I also see that you want a high level of preparedness and come up with further issues. We're in a hurry. The Economic and Social Committee would like to have more issues about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e578	I agree with a good part of what Kielland Asmyhr now said about thinking small, making it easier to start businesses and having a big focus on simplification, not least. I'm also going to make sure that the Business Committee gets even more cases in the spring. I can promise. With regard to the issue of the package of measures, we have received a lot of input – and many good input – from both the opposition, from representatives of the position and not least from the industry, from many different companies. That's what we're looking at these days. There is also no doubt that the current situation requires action to be taken that focuses not least on small and medium-sized enterprises. And then the representative Kielland Asmyhr knows that we will come back with concrete proposals at the time he's mentioned. When it comes to the simplification action plan, it is probably always the case when a government presents cases, that you get both positive feedback and someone who is not quite that positive. It's kind of the role division between position and opposition. But I have a real and honest commitment, as I also experience that the Storting has, to get more simplification, because it's very important when there are so many companies that have so few employees. Then they have to spend the time on what they should spend on. That means that during this spring I'm going to establish the status of where we are now relative when we presented that action plan. Has it become more simplification, or has it not become more simplification? That is because we have to do this in practice. I know that previous governments have also worked on this and have tried to get it done. But it is not always easy in practice when there are many laws, many rules to follow. But it is very important to incorporate the principle that there is actually a difference between the big businesses and the small and medium-sized enterprises, when we think about what legislation we are going to introduce all the time. I believe that we all have a responsibility to try to contribute to it. It's also a little bit about a cultural or attitude change that's not done by a trick, or from one day to another, but that we're working very actively with. I am glad that there is a broad consensus that this is actually necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e589	Most of the farms in this country are small. These companies account for about two thirds of the employment and 55 pst. of the translation into business. A lot of innovation and innovation are just happening in smaller businesses. I agree with the interpellant that it is therefore important that we pursue an industrial policy that takes account of these companies. There is no doubt that good framework conditions for these enterprises are important for the value creation of business. We are facing a serious economic downturn in the world economy, and we see that this is a framework for jobs and businesses in this country. Many have resigned, others announce that they will do so in a short time. Then it is important that we have an instrument tool and an accurate tool that works. We should therefore be pleased that we have a government that has been pursuing an active industrial policy for more than three years and that we are focusing on a number of important issues, especially for small businesses. As the interpellant himself said, not only can it be in times of crisis we should think about it, but we must have a holistic policy. For example, in simplification work, which is a priority work on the part of the Government, there is a major focus on the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises. Many companies spend too much of their time following rules and regulations from the public, and this government is doing something about it. The simplification plan refers precisely to the EU Small Business Act when proposing to think small first, where it is always necessary to assess whether the legislation can be differentiated between small and medium-sized enterprises and larger enterprises. And then I'm going to say, "Simplification isn't something that's kind of a part of the plan, and then it's a part of it." It's a continuous job, it can always get better, and so it's important that we have a government that always focuses on this. Establishing a good culture of entrepreneurship is one of the EU's main policy objectives for small businesses. This is something that the Government attaches great importance to, among other things. through a strong increase in the lines of Young Entrepreneurship since 2005. And an action plan has been presented for more entrepreneurship among women, with a number of good actions. The Innovation Communication, which was presented on Friday, 5 December, also focuses on entrepreneurship organisation. There must be a culture of entrepreneurship – throughout the course of life. The fact that entrepreneurship is expanded to several age groups by assessing how to facilitate grey entrepreneurship, I also see it as very positive. The representative of Kielland Asmyhr believes that, in particular, the small and medium-sized enterprises will experience very difficult times at the time I now go into, due to the global economic downturn. And I'm saying that there's a reason to be bid at more difficult times. But it is worth noting the investigation that Monday morning has carried out, and that this week was published. Leaders in small and medium-sized enterprises are found to be less pessimistic than those who manage larger enterprises. The study shows that the larger the enterprise, the stronger a crisis experiences. I have to say, it's interesting to notice! It is a small paradox when the Progress Party is so engrossed in the EU's work with small and medium-sized enterprises' framework conditions, at the same time as they proposed in the budget to cut the loops for the Narvik telephones and Bedin. Narvik telephones provide free information to businesses and the public on business, business and European issues. On Bedin, companies can find information on links to more information about the EU programmes Norwegian enterprises can participate in through the EEA Agreement, which particularly benefits small and medium-sized enterprises. One example of such a programme is the CIP, which is the EU's Competitiveness and Innovation Framework Programme. This programme focuses specifically on small and medium-sized enterprises. As the Council of State said, many of the measures taken by the Government to mitigate the effects of the international financial crisis are very important for small and medium-sized enterprises. Increased frameworks for GIEK and Innovation Norway will secure export companies contracts, increase investment and allow loans, especially in small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway. This is just one of many evidences that the Government has focused on these enterprises and that they take the challenges to small and medium-sized enterprises seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e612	The industrial policy pursued constitutes the floor under Norwegian workplaces. A forward-looking industrial policy that facilitates growth is therefore the best guarantee for achieving common well-being, even in the future. The majority of enterprises in Norway are small and medium-sized enterprises, of which the family-owned enterprises account for the majority of the value added. These enterprises face a number of specific problems. Therefore, the social gain with offensive stakes on this type of enterprise will be high. The right has long been disappointed that the government has spent the good years behind us, to weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian companies. In particular, we are disappointed that it has been more important for the Government to lead a rhetoric to ‘bail the rich’ rather than to facilitate the conditions for all those who work every day to get their business to go around and keep their profitability. The evening mail could tell on Tuesday 6 January that the flagship in the Norwegian furniture industry, the company Ekornes on Sunnmøre, has to cancel 200 employees if the government does not do anything with the permit rules. This shows that Norway is now facing major problems and tough times, with financial crisis and increasing unemployment. It is therefore tragic that the Government will not listen to the Ekorenes' prayer to the Government to change the rules of leave. The right considers that the business package from the Government is too late, and we have therefore already proposed measures in our alternative budget to ensure the profitability of businesses, stimulate investment and secure jobs. In its alternative budget, the right has spent around DKK 8 billion in a business package to prevent the floor from being demolished under Norwegian workplaces. And it's not just taxes, we want to extend the loan scheme to the municipalities from 2 billion to 5 billion kroner to ensure more activity in refurbishment of public buildings in municipalities – this to mention something. We have said from day one that there must be more, and unlike the Government, we are not afraid to act. We say like Stoltenberg's good friend Rune Bjerke: the downside risk of waiting too long is greater than the risk of acting a little too early. We do this because if we succeed in securing Norwegian businesses, this in turn will result in tax revenues and help to secure the welfare state. But the effort to improve the situation for our small businesses is not only done in the context of budgetary work. It also takes place from day to day in the policy on business. I am proud that the Right now has a proposal to deal with simplifying the everyday life of businesses. In particular, this proposal gives our small and medium-sized enterprises a handshake. We show in our proposal that the European Commission has presented the Action Plan ‘Think Small First: A Small Business Act for Europe’. The action plan shall make it easier and more attractive to establish and operate in small and medium-sized enterprises. A central part of the action plan is a proposal for the creation of a new form of company, an EU limited liability company based on uniform provisions throughout the EU/EEA area. The aim is to improve the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises. At the same time, we see that the number of non-Norwegian enterprises registered in Norway has grown considerably. This suggests that the rules applicable to a limited liability company make it less attractive to establish such a business. Therefore, the right considers that work should be started as soon as possible in order to obtain a simplified share law for small companies. In our proposal, we also mention the possibility of lifting the audit obligation for small limited liability companies. The costs of auditing are significant for small enterprises, both isolated for individual small companies and at the level of society, the benefits to the different users of the accounts of small limited liability companies of their being audited are limited, and all EU countries consider it appropriate to liquidate or not to have an audit obligation for small limited liability companies. The right also considers that the bookkeeping rules of the Accounting Act need to be simplified. I'm recording that speaking time will soon be over. I registered that the Council of State, Brustad, said that a lot is going on, but in its reply to the nutrition committee on our proposal for a representative, the Council of State is unfortunately showing little interest in this. The right believes that the ambitions are too low, and that they have to rise. Now we don't just have to talk, now it has to be done to help small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e633	Over 99 pst. enterprises are small or medium-sized, and half are family eight. So this is Norway's spine. These businesses are entirely decisive for the districts and for most people. Thus, the Christian People's Party fully concludes with the intention of the inter-pellant, that more efforts must be made to facilitate small and medium-sized enterprises in this country. At the moment of the financial crisis, it is more important than ever to stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises in order to combat an increase in unemployment. I also record that the Council of State has a real commitment here and an open approach; among other things. the Council of State said that it would look for a close dialogue with small and medium-sized enterprises. It's a wise approach, because it's a well-known phenomenon that he's wearing his shoe, who knows best where it prints. The Christian People's Party was the only party on the Stortinget that, within the rule of action, still found room to increase the use of oil money in connection with the state budget. We had a package of nearly 5 billion kroner to go to the construction and maintenance of roads, railways, schools and hospitals. We also proposed better business depreciation rules. All of this would benefit small and medium-sized enterprises. But we also need more targeted and long-term measures for small and medium-sized enterprises. The Christian People's Party believes that businesses are the ones who know best how to create values. They know better than politicians and bureaucrats in public offices how to do this. Therefore, in the Christian People's Party, we will give companies the best possible framework conditions for making the creation force work. It will mean low corporate taxation, best possible education, training and research, good infrastructure, simple and efficient regulation, a well-functioning labour market and an effective and active competition policy to prevent large enterprises from using market power in a way that harms small businesses and consumers. It is this that, at the end of the seventh century, creates ground for growth, innovation and innovation in small and large enterprises, both in urban and rural areas. It seems that the Government does not have the same impatience. Some of the tasks of the opposition are just being impatient here. When tax is involved, the Christian People's Party, together with the Right and the Left, has put forward proposals to remove the inheritance tax in case of a generation change in family businesses. We suggest that the payment of the inheritance tax be deferred for at least 10 years on a generation change. If a new generation continues to operate, the inheritance fee will be reduced by one tenth every year. And if the new generation has been operating for at least ten years, the inheritance fee falls away. This happens where it should and it prevents abuse. These are good business policies, good social economy and good district policies. Studies carried out by the European Commission also show that a successful change of ownership in small businesses leads to the continuation of an average of five jobs. We know that over the next ten years, over the next ten years, 40 000 enterprises are ahead of generation change in this country, so here's a huge challenge. In the Christian People's Party we have also fought for a long time to get rid of property taxes on working capital. That's what we're going to do. I believe that this tax also applies to small and medium-sized enterprises and prevents the creation of equity that can be used again for investment and for further development. Then we have a package of measures for the banks. It works fine for the banks, but there's a lot of noise reports that this stops, it doesn't get to the companies. And then some of the purpose is gone. We have simply had examples of well-established and solid small and medium-sized enterprises that are in acute liquidity difficulties now in the financial crisis and that have not managed to mediocre this, and they have simply gone bankrupt. I hope that the Minister of Industry will have a proper talk with the Minister of Finance, so that even those who are in need of funding will be helped by the package of measures for the banks that have been signed, so that we are not only witnessing a saving of the banks here. We in the Christian People's Party also have a number of other measures that we hope to contribute in a very modest way, such as removing unnecessary reporting requirements, complicated legislation and so on, but this will come back to us in our work on these matters when we meet them again in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e656	Measures to improve the framework conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises are very important. But I think both the government and many of the big parties lack a special goal. Who are we in Norway? Who are we to measure against, both in the European context and on a global basis? And how does Norway relate to other countries? Then I thought it was interesting with the last issue of Monday morning, which came out three days ago, where there was a larger article about this and also comments about the innovation message. With the European Innovation Scoreboard from previous years as a source, a main index of 25 different indicators summarized separately on the state of innovation in individual countries, including the United Kingdom. education, broadband deployment, investment in research and development, exports of high-tech products and registered patents. And the interesting thing here is that Norway is far below the EU average. Sweden tops the list. Switzerland is far above us, including Finland, Israel, Denmark, Japan, Germany, the United Kingdom, the United States, Luxembourg, Iceland, Ireland, the Netherlands and Austria. I could still do that. Even Estonia is better than Norway. The same article states that there are several Norwegian researchers criticising the Government's innovation message, which considers it to be a low offensive, pointless and an innovation brake, and that the red-green ideologies stand in the way of more innovation. It could be interesting to get more of such rankings in terms of innovation, entrepreneurial activity, tax levels, research in relation to other countries, and school. Here we know from the past that Norway is actually far below the EU average. Not least, it could have been interesting to look at a simplification of the form field, as other speakers here have mentioned. Several studies show that the form field and follow-up of laws and regulations cost business well over 30 billion kroner a year. When that's what it costs business, I don't dare think about how much it costs the public, and how much time you spend treating this. The progress made by both stakeholder organisations and businesses towards us politicians shows that the form field has not been significantly reduced. Even the National Audit Office has repeatedly pointed out that more than half of small and medium-sized enterprises feel that there are more rules and that they need to answer the same questions from the public several times. The National Audit Office has also pointed out in particular that the main challenges facing it are the Directorate of Taxation and the Directorate of Customs and Fees. The other thing I was going to include is that there is a audit committee that looks at this by simplifying the requirements for small limited liability companies. As we know, almost all other countries in Europe have removed that obligation, and those who have not removed it are going to go away from the statutory obligation for small limited liability companies – that is, once again strange. I wonder when the government will file a case for the Storting about this. As the minister probably knows, there were quite a number of stakeholder organisations and departments that went against a continuation of the audit obligation for small companies. This applies, inter alia, to: The Confederation of Enterprises, the Association of Enterprises, the Ministry of Health and Welfare, the Main Organization of Trade and Service Industries, the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, the Association of Norwegian Authorised Accountants, the Ministry of Agriculture and Trade, the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Industry, the Association of Small Businesses, the Association of founders, the Confederation of Economics, etc. I hope that we can get a case on this to Stortinget soon, and that we get an answer to that today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e667	I would like to begin by thanking the representative Kielland Asmyhr for once again putting on the agenda the conditions for small and medium-sized enterprises. It is such an important matter that we must always keep it in focus, not just the business committee, but the whole Stortinget. The interpellant was concerned with key factors, such as the framework conditions for business, the importance of innovation and, last but not least, a simplified regulatory framework for small and medium-sized enterprises, which facilitates everyday focus on what businesses are going to do, instead of completing forms to be submitted to public authorities. Now that we have the so-called financial crisis, it is often easy to resort to special measures, and that is important. Short-term measures are important, but they must also be targeted. But I think it's important that one does what's right for businesses over a long period of time, regardless of the financial crisis or not, like getting the framework conditions improved through tax havens, by stimulating new jobs and an innovative environmental and climate-friendly business. We are now in a situation where we record that there are several companies that permit, that cancel people, and we also record many bankruptcies in Norwegian business. The most difficult thing to do about is the enterprises that depend on the foreign market, the ones that export their goods. I think we can put in place many good short-term measures – hopefully also long-term – in terms of domestic conditions, but the big challenge is the companies that depend on selling their goods abroad. For this reason, it is up to both the Council of State and the Grand Duchy to be particularly creative towards these enterprises, both in the form of training funds as short-term measures to preserve jobs, and also to stimulate better education and training for other workplaces. We record that we have very strong clusters in different areas. We have maritime clusters, for example. workshop industry combined with research and higher education. I think it is now important to invest in and stimulate the opportunities that lie in new jobs related to climate technologies and renewable energy. We are on the threshold of a new industrial era where there will be very many interesting jobs in the years to come, linked to climate and renewable energy. Then it's important that we take advantage of the advantages we have from, for example. areas such as the gas and oil sector and the maritime sector, and that we have used that knowledge and transferred it to new areas. There will be future jobs, and it can make Norway a leading country in this regard, for which there will be a large market. Then I am pleased to note that the Council of State points out in its statement that there is a great difference between the largest enterprises and the small enterprises in Norway, and that there must be different regulatory requirements for the very least in relation to the largest ones. It's a matter that Left has fought for too long. Similarly, the revision must be made easier for the smallest limited liability companies in relation to the largest. Then we record in today's nations that the representative Ola Borten Moe of the Central Party now wants tax relief, and he talks about the importance of equity and liquidity in Norwegian companies. I hope this is a signal he as a representative of the government parties has received from the government council and the government, so we look forward to the package coming on 26 January in that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e684	Like several of the others who have spoken in this debate, I would like to thank the inter-pellant for raising a very useful debate in my opinion, especially in the economic situation in which we find ourselves as a result of the international financial crisis. There is a real danger that many Norwegian companies may fall apart as a result of the market’s failure. An example of this is the Bildelsproduktion, which many Norwegian companies contribute to, and which now experience almost overnight that 50 pst. of the volume of production – and even more – disappears. It is clear that there are some needs then, including: in order to increase the number of legs on which these enterprises need help to get innovation and innovation started. There is an immediate need that has arisen in these companies. So, of course, you can argue that many of these companies should have used the good period we've left behind to renew themselves. But it's known that it's too late to cheat when your nose is gone. The danger that this industry is experiencing is that one can lose valuable skills in a market that we know is going to recover. There will be a need for cartilage when the market is growing again. It's going to be a growing need for aluminium in the cars that are produced in the future, because it's a beneficial metal. That's why it's so important now that during the next period we can find schemes that will enable these companies to survive. I myself have visited several such companies and have been in contact with the employees and the company management. There are no tax incentives for management and employees in these companies. There are completely different measures they want. This week I visited a company that has an immediate need for the injection of liquid capital. They've staffed down, they've licensed, but they're going to have a lag of costs that they would normally have been covered by the ordinary banking system. However, because today's access to capital is limited, it is now at risk of falling short of what they call short-term capital because of a lack of what they call short-term capital. As several others have mentioned, Norwegian business is largely made up of small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. small and medium-sized enterprises. enterprises with fewer than 100 employees. There is a lot of innovation and innovation going on in these companies. But there is also a large part of this business mass that has not used the time to create new products and where innovation has been relatively low over time. We have a responsibility to create an instrument that stimulates increased innovation and that we get new innovation in these companies. I am pleased that the Government has provided a message that meets these needs in most areas. We're going to get back to this. Then there are several people who have requested the government's package. The envelope is as usual that it is too small and too late. I am quite sure that no matter what the Government will do on 26 January, the envelope from the opposition will be exactly that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e702	There are few in Norway who get so much praise, but at the same time as small and medium-sized enterprises have as little concrete promises. Now the interpellant said that the EU had a slogan about ‘less red tape and more red carpets’. He shall have praise for having taken up the theme. If only you get that kind of attitude around! I also note that the Council of State says very well. It is clear that SMEs are at the heart of employment and the backbone of value creation around Norway. General strategies shall be developed. I think that's gonna be fog homes for a lot of the managers in small and medium-sized enterprises – but not that it's not important. You have ten principles, about simplification, and you have to think little. The aim is to increase R & D and innovation. If you go into R & D and innovation, it's a pretty big risk project for a small business to get started. I think there's an incredible amount of good innovation going on around Business Norway. It's almost daily. We were at the NHO annual conference yesterday and had lessons on competition, and competition itself is the driving force in much of it. The non-innovation also disappears from the market. That's a lot of what I hear being said, but at the same time I miss the discussion placed in what's actually the challenge today, and then we're talking about the financial crisis. Many people have said that it is actually a debt crisis. There I agree with Left's representative Leif Helge Kongshaug that here you have to look at what kind of long-term grip it is important to take. If we accept that the financial crisis is a debt crisis and at the same time we also want more investment in R & D and innovation and everything, what are we going to do to ensure that we get it? Well, we're talking about equity. It is actually equity that should be the buffer against a financial crisis, it is the last capital the company has to go on, and equity must also be there to start risk projects. I think the politicians will soon have to understand, you have to take over the debate on what to do with equity in businesses. The measures I've seen so far are almost exclusively to discuss how to get companies to borrow even more. In a situation where we have a debt crisis, that's actually not the solution. In fact, a lot of companies are also in such a situation that you can't or can't borrow any more. Then there is a danger if you don't go down to the core of the discussion, and there should be equity. It is actually under attack by today's government. It is attacked by increased taxes on wealth, and it is attacked by the inheritance tax. This is a very serious step in today's situation. So the red-green government wants jobs, you want entrepreneurs, you want to bet, but you don't want the owners of the businesses. It's a serious paradox that we're going to see great damage if you don't get away from that dogma soon. Today, it can be said so simply that private Norwegian ownership in Norwegian companies is discriminated against in relation to all other groups of owners. For me, who thinks ownership is actually the key to creating a healthy business, it's pretty serious. The debate you should go into here is actually a discussion about what you want with Norwegian ownership. Would you like Norwegian ownership? That debate, I think, is extremely important. With today's policies, district Norway and small and medium-sized enterprises are hit hardest because there are few alternatives to ownership. There are mainly local Norwegian owners owning small and medium-sized enterprises and owning the jobs and value creation of District Norway. I hope that debate can take more seriously in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e717	I would first like to thank the Stortinget for an incredibly good and useful debate. What this debate has shown is that many have good proposals for developing a better industrial policy, and in particular a policy for small and medium-sized enterprises. If you have listened carefully to the statements made by both representatives from the position and, in particular, representatives from the opposition, you will have noticed that there were many proposals here. So far during this ageing period, we see in the Business Committee that the opposition has promoted a number of concrete measures that would work quickly for businesses. These are also proposals supported by industry, which industry itself has been involved in the public debate and also as input to the Government. But that opposition has experienced so far, is that these proposals are only being defused. I wish the Council of State now used this debate to take note of the recordings that have been made here, and also to take seriously the proposals that the opposition has to develop a better policy in this area. In my first post, I said that I had noticed that the government will come up with a separate strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises. The council also said in its statement that she would send several cases to Stortinget during this spring. Will this strategy for small and medium-sized enterprises be submitted to the Storting, or is it only a working document for the Government? The EU has therefore made proposals for new company models, and it is incredibly important that we now look at the company models and, in particular, the capital requirements of our limited liability companies and ASA companies in the Share Exchange Act, because what we have seen in the last year is an incredible flowering of so-called NUF companies that make completely different demands from what Norwegian legislation does. This shows that Norwegian legislation in this area is in some way out of date, and we should try to follow that up. The representative of Gullvåg said that no matter what the government does, the opposition would think that the government is doing too little. It must also be possible to surprise the opposition sometimes and make offensive proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e730	I think there have been several constructive proposals, which I have said both noted and heard and included in the work we are doing. So to the last time Kielland Asmyhr's representative picked up, the government has to be able to surprise a little bit. To use one example: when, in four days, the government made proposals – as the Stortinget, and I am pleased to say, has joined – on measures worth over DKK 100 billion to improve the situation for the export industry, I also heard some say ‘too little’ and ‘too late’. Then it is not very easy to surprise, but I feel that there is broad support for taking the situation particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises seriously. So I think you should wait to pass the sentence on the suggestions until you see what goes on in a few weeks. Otherwise, I notice that more, including The representative, Kongshaug, has indicated that there is a need to focus on both short-term measures, seafaringly, in relation to the situation we are in, which is very demanding for many businesses, and also on longer-term measures. Then I also notice that the right, at least the representative Røbekk Nørve, is turning on the old disc again – and that is a matter of law. But when it is claimed that we do not listen to them this applies, I do not agree. What we did to the export industry just shows that we have listened to the companies. Several said that it helped you to avoid getting notices to the extent that it was possible. I also think you should wait to pass the judgment until you see what comes in the action package, before you say that you don't listen to the companies. As far as the representative Rytman was concerned, we are so poor at establishing and operating businesses in Norway – I understood this was particularly true of small and medium-sized enterprises – there are also other studies to which reference can be made. Among other things, the World Bank has ranked Norway as No. 10 out of 183 in an overview of which countries are best placed to operate. So here's a lot of research, but no matter how you turn it around, it looks like most people agree that we should and can do even more for the small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the backbone of Norwegian business, and that's what the government is going to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e743	That being the case, it is no. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e749	There is no voting theme in cases No. One, two, three.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-01-08.ana.ud2609e807	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
