ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e29	The representative, Mr Solvik-Olsen, will put forward a draft representative law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e32	I am delighted to promote a bill of representation on behalf of the representatives of Øyvind Korsberg, Tord Lien, Per Sandberg, Åge Starheim and myself for a new law on motor travel in the fields and watercourses.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e37	The legislative proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e51	At the request of the Judicial Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that the opportunity be given for the replacement of lines of up to three lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is suggested that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e60	In this case, the government proposes to change the annual target period for the police director, so that it harmonises with other targets schemes both in the department and in the state. This is done through a change in the police law and involves six years of service with the possibility of re-nomination for six more years. Today, the scheme is valid for six years with the possibility of re-appointment for a three-year period. The current police director is currently in his last period. As a transitional mechanism, the Government also proposes to allow the current Commissioner to have the annual target extended by three years. However, calling and setting shall be carried out in the usual manner. Several hearing bodies have agreed, on a principle basis, that the annual target period for the police director should be harmonised with other target positions both in the police and in the State. The Chief of Police has, among other things: annual targets for six years with the possibility of extension for a new six-year period. From organisations that support this on a principle basis, we find, among other things. PF - Police Joint Organisation. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Workers' Party and the SV, also support this view and do not want today's system which is a violation of the general rule of equal length of time. Furthermore, the majority also supports the Government’s proposal that the current police director should have the opportunity to apply for an extension of the annual target period. The background to the establishment of the Police Directorate in 2001 was the fear that the newly established Directorate could build up a structure that reduced the scope for ongoing control. It was seen as very important to have good democratic and political control of the body. Of course, this requirement is equally important today. The police are in a special position in society. No one else in our society has the same power and authority in peacetime as the police. We rely on the Norwegian police to have a high level of confidence in the population. Then the police have legitimacy. However, experience so far shows that the fear of losing democratic control of the body has been unfounded and that this is not a valid argument for not harmonizing the yardstick functions of the agency. Another reason why the majority will support an extension of the annual target period is the need for continuity. As I said, the Police Directorate is a relatively newly established body, and only recently has it entered a so-called operational phase. We're all familiar with the major challenges the police are facing. We had a thorough discussion of this in Stortinget earlier today. The Police Directorate is in a demanding phase in relation to the follow-up of, among other things. ‘Police against 2020’, which is a long-term work with the aim of strengthening police personnel. This requires clear police management and continuity, not least in directorate management. There is then a bad luck with a three-year period, which will mean that the police director will have a short time to implement different measures before he/she has to move to a different position. Finally, the Committee has no comments on the change in the name of the Director of the Police Directorate so that it is hereinafter referred to as the ‘Police Director’.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e81	This matter that we are now dealing with is one of the three that has affected the Government in an interesting way – if I can use such a term. It has sometimes appeared as a tailor to get today's police director to continue, even though it has been claimed that this is not the case. For the Progress Party, we are going to vote against the proposal for a law that exists, with the exception of the change that goes on the title. It's unproblematic. As far as the rest is concerned, of course, continuity, as the rapporteur was concerned, is important. But it's also true that once you've come to a certain stage, it might be a good idea to get others to take things further. That's why we're worried about what's available. We also believe that by making the change that the government is proposing here, it will probably lead – I hope, of course, that I am wrong – to getting applicants. If today's police director is considering applying, I think it will help reduce the possibility that other qualified applicants will submit a wish to join the job. If there's something we need at a time when the Norwegian police are struggling, I think it's getting new ones into the management, to take the lead, to be visible on behalf of the Norwegian police. Today, perhaps, with respect to reporting, the most obvious person in the police sector is the Joint Commissioner Arne Johannessen. I would like to see a police director who is more visible, more offensive and who fights even tougher for his establishment. We do not have that today, and on behalf of us in the Progress Party, I see no need to facilitate the same police director to continue. I think it's absolutely time we got a new person in. With this I have made it clear where we stand in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e92	This is not a debate on whether or not the current police director is competent. This is a debate on the preconditions for police reform and the prerequisites for further development of the role of the Police Directorate in the light of a real and independent evaluation. It is impossible to free yourself from the idea that the Council of State is tailoring the process for the current police director who thanks for his loyal efforts to cover his failure to the police over the last three years. So, on the first and best occasion, one ignores what was the premise of the Storting in 1999. It is only to be noted that the Government appears to believe that the Equality and Discrimination Ombudsman is of greater importance and more central to the Government when the annual target period here is reduced compared to that of the Police Directorate. Based on the recent attitude of the government toward those who work in the police, it may not be so surprising. It's hard to see a more detailed reason for this. I am also not so sure that there are fundamental assessments that have been made in relation to the Equality Ombudsman, but rather that there have been specific experiences in a different direction. It shows to the extent that the sitting government is not very principled, like what has been seen in the hijab and blasphemy debates. This case is a strange example of self-esteem. The case was at the hearing last summer, but that hearing was a game for the gallery. It says that the Riksadvokat did not want to make a statement because you perceived it as if the decision had already been taken. In relation to the trust crisis that exists between the police and the authorities, which we have discussed earlier this evening, this matter does not build confidence. It builds trust further down. It does not contribute to the confidence that the evaluation of the police reform will be carried out by the same person responsible for implementation. The continuity referred to by the Chairman of the Committee shows that there is a need for some sort of clarification of what is included in the concept of «continuity». It reminds me of the DNA reform, so you think it's okay that as little as possible sits as far as possible and as much as possible in enclosed spaces. The only continuity guaranteed by this proposal is still, continuous conflict with the police on which we are dependent, but who are thus demonstrating against the government's policies on Wednesday. So one explanation of vote: Right votes for amendments to the second paragraph of Section 15 and votes against the rest of the law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e105	There is certainly reason to believe that this law has a specific personal name attached to it as a result of changing the rules of the game along the way. To reach the conclusion of the Christian People's Party first, we are voting against the Government's proposal, but we are voting to change the name of the leader of the Police Directorate. I think there is reason to take a look at the hearing opinions that came to the Ministry of Justice, perhaps the one mentioned in the position of the Department of Personnel Policy, namely the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. Here's what it says: «Such a change of an annual target period already in progress is contrary to the basic principles of the State's annual target system.» Then the question is: what makes you choose a different procedure anyway, when it conflicts with the basic principles of the government's system of targets? Well, then, as far as I can see, it must be the person – that the person is so important that one chooses to ignore the principal aspects of the case that the department responsible for human resources policy comes with. There is, as the representative Oktay Dahl said, no debate on the competence of the police director who is currently sitting. But the question is whether you've made it to those degrees depending on one person that you're willing to give away basic principles of human resources policy. And then I have to say you're on the waving front. I would like to know and get more in clear text what the Government's position has been beyond what is quoted in the explanatory statement of the majority, because it seems to me to be more revealing than clarifying. I think we all see that there is a little hidden argument in this case. It's all right, but I think it would have been better if you had just told me what you really wanted, that's to keep the police director sitting longer than what was the condition when he got the job. It would have been more fair play.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e121	The unprincipledness of the government is clearly expressed in the manner in which the matter is presented. It was first presented to the public through Norwegian media, when it was heard that the aim of the year had to be extended for the sake of the current police director. Let me make it quite clear that I think this is an unusually unfair procedure against a person who is in such a prominent position. No one in such a position deserves one's superior to express himself that way, because it puts people in embarrassment. I agree with those who have said that it is not about the competence of the sitting police director – I have been for her additions in both the contexts it has happened, but it is about a principle linked to democracy. For my part, I remember the time when the Police Directorate was introduced; I was responsible for promoting the proposal. I worked so that the Workers' Party would support it. And it was a handball decision in the Workers' Party's group, i.e. that there were very few votes. But of the issues the Labour Party had, the issue of democracy was what I shared with the party. It's not about a person's ability or character, but it's about the fact that when you sit and run the most central power of society in peacetime, that's the police, there's a heavy democratic need to say that there's a limit to how long you should sit in that kind of position, no matter how competent you are. And that limit was then set at a little more than two peak periods. It was not that this was done in the blind, nor, before the matter was dealt with. I remember very well how this was crucial for, among other things. The working party's treatment of the matter, one was absolutely sure that there would be replacements on a principle basis. Because it has to be that if you suddenly have a reason for this because someone is particularly good, you have to change the goal the other way, if someone is particularly inappropriate. It's completely unprincipled. It's all my democratic reflexes that come out here. I have to say that I am quite upset that you are so dissenting, and it should be done to find a hearing opinion that supports this, because even the opinion of the Police Joint Union shows that you do not accept the procedure. We look at all of the other statements, from the League of Police Officers, the State Attorney's Commentary, the non-expressions of all the police officers, the opinion of the NTL, the opinion of the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, and you find little support in principle for what you're doing. You simply get a resistance that is quite unusual when a government promotes a case. This matter, as it is handled, reminds me of the Labour Party as I experienced the party in my growth: that party had decided, was right, and then you adapted the principles afterwards, so that you would get the argument to stick with that power had decided that it should be. But when I react as strongly as I do in this matter, it's not because of the person Killangereen – she's an excellent police officer – but I react because of the principle, the coercive force of society, which I've been in. Let me say that some of the conditions we actually studied before we went into this, were what we had been debating in other countries. The Americans, after Hoover had been in office for almost 50 years, made a change in the management of the FBI -- it's not comparable to the police directorate -- and they said you'd sit a little more than two presidential periods, but not very much longer. It was a recognition that you are in a position with such great challenges that there is a limit to how long to expect a person to sit there. And if a person is to do what the representative Ellingsen said, namely to deal with one of Norway's toughest trade unions, which is kind of a cross between the union of the elevator installers and the association of the air traffic controllers, then it's such a demanding position that you have to assume that you probably have the rift of most of your cards during the period you're sitting – just to have taken that side of the case. But the principle of the case remains for the Left that it is shockingly unprincipled by the Workers' Party to forget its own history and forget how many years it took before the Workers' Party was at all willing to accept the idea of a police directorate. They have forgotten the whole debate that took place in Stortinget when they decided to go in for a police directorate, among others. linking democratic control to it, namely that the leader of this system, regardless of the name or fitness of the leader, should be limited in time – it should be just nine years. And the position I was responsible for at that time, I still stand firm for the same principal reasons. Then I have to add that I think that if you thought about it now, you should have done this at the time of the year, so that on an independent basis you had made an evaluation and the Stortinge had got a case on this. So the matter becomes unprincipled in the sense that one leaves a basic principle from the time we got the Police Directorate and the basis for the police reform, and then it becomes in principle because one makes the change to which the representative Syversen referred, when he quoted the opinion of the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. It's probably obvious to everyone here in the Chamber that the Left will vote against Section 19, first paragraph, but we're voting for the paragraphs that change the title of the Police Director.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e136	In the Government’s proposal, the term of office of the Director of the Police Directorate is changed to that of the State’s general annual target position scheme. It involves six years of service with the possibility of re-appointment once to six new years. The annual target shall be published in the usual manner. As a transitional mechanism, the law provides for the possibility for the current police director to apply for extended annual targets for a further three years, after publication and suspension. Furthermore, it is proposed that the title of the Director of the Police Directorate should be changed to be the Police Director. I think that is in line with the usual use of words. The general rule for annual targets in the country is a working period of six years. Annual target allocations may be repeated once with a new six-year period for each official in the same post, cf. § 3, Nos. 2 of the Staff Regulations. The same provision allows for longer or shorter periods of special reasons. The Directorate of Police and the position of Director of the Directorate of Police were established by the Law of 25 February 2000 No. 12 on amendments to the Police Act. The need for strong democratic and political control of the police in general and the central police department in particular were strongly emphasised in the establishment. By relocating the professional police from the police department in the Ministry of Justice to the Police Directorate, the newly established Directorate and its head were able to develop a leadership structure that reduced the possibility of continuous control of the civil apparatus. For this reason, the Directorship was established with an annual target period of six years, with the possibility of extension for a further three years. Experience with the Directorate of Police and its management has shown that the Directorate has established itself and is managed safely within the structure common to state activities, and that good procedures and frameworks have been established for the administration and control of the activities of the Ministry of Justice. Instructions and reporting procedures are good, and ongoing contact with the Department and its policy management is close and good. The Police Directorate has been in an ongoing and comprehensive process of building and conversion since its inception. There is now an operational phase in which organisation and changes need to be consolidated and continuously improved. Continuity in management is also a significant factor in the country's annual target positions. In general, an annual target of only three years is unfortunate. In particular, when work is long-term, there is an advantage to the usual six-year target system. A director who, by repeating the annual target, must already be willing to find a new position in a short time could have a challenge in this long-term perspective. With regard to the title, the Police Act today refers to the head of the Police Directorate as the director of the Police Directorate. This is not consistent with the actual and daily review, and that is also the background to the proposed amendment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e153	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e156	Government parties assume a perspective in which the maximum number of years of service seems to be reduced as the position is so much more important. Can the Council of State clarify why, following such a view, the equality Ombudsman must clearly be more important than the police director?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e161	I am not sure whether we have assumed that the target should be shorter the more important the position. There are some different yardsticks. I have in my other position, as Minister of Culture, also people who have other types of goals. This must be assessed in relation to each position. The fact that you get a replacement for the same period as the first appointment is, at least, the general rule. It's very, very few exceptions to that particular system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e169	I do not recognize that it was the father of an assumed subculture that led to having a year's measure of six plus three years, so I want to repeat what I said in my main post – the main account was not linked to such a thought. It was not attached to a specific, presumed inappropriate person either. It was linked to the democratic principle that when one sits in such a powerful position and manages the state's apparatus of power in peacetime, the police, for general democratic reasons, the aim should be limited to nine years. It was a principle view. Is that the way I'm going to see it, that this concern is no longer shared by the Council of State as acting Minister of Justice, that the Government has put away this general constitutional reflection, which is not linked to a person or suspected possible subcultures, but linked to the fact that power, for reasons of principle, is going to change into such strong and so tough positions as it is here?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e174	Now I wasn't in the discussion some years ago when the Police Directorate was established, but I assume that the representative Dørum is not so far from reality when he describes the scepticism of the Police Directorate in general and also the concern for democratic control of the business. However, it is important to learn from the experience – that this has gone very well, that there are good procedures for contact between the department and the police directorate, and that you feel that democratic and political control is good enough. You can discuss the length of goals in total, nine years, twelve years, eight years, or what you have of periods, but to me it seems as though it's a little undisputed that there must be a breakdown where you first have a very long period and then a renewal – which I suppose, if it becomes the same person, is based on having good experience with that person – which is then very short. It would be better to look at other types of measures, where at least the length of the two periods was equal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e181	I hear the reasoning of the Council of State. It is a pragmatic reasoning, which is set out as it is in the document – to adapt and normalise annual target periods in the country. I've heard that argument. That's not what I asked the council. I also didn't ask the Council of State about the fitness of Police Director Killengreen – I see it as significant – but I asked the question if the Council of State sees that being the head of the Police Directorate, the civil force of society, makes this directorate in a somewhat different situation than most other directorates to which you can compare it, when you know what position it represents in our society, what trust it should represent. That's the question I asked the Council of State Giske, and that's why I repeat it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e186	It's supposed to say that twelve years is very long, but at the same time I don't understand the opposition's attitude, to hold on to six plus three. Then you should suggest four plus four as an alternative. Because if you have had a person in such a position for six years and then you see that this has worked extraordinarily well, so well that you even think about appointing the person for a new period, I don't see the need to limit the period to three years. I believe that this is right, as the proposal implies, with the same service time in the second period as in the first. So this is not in the proposition justified in a personnel case, an individual matter. I have to say that I am reacting a little specifically to the comments of the Advance Party, which goes on to a public official, that the Stortinget has the kind of subjective assessments. You have to look at the principle, and our view is that it's right with six plus six years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e193	The cord shift is over. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e203	Odelstinget then goes to voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e252	The Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left have warned that they will vote against the first paragraph of Section 19 and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e268	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e280	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-23-lower.ana.ud2546e311	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask to speak in accordance with Rule 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
