ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e28	From the meeting of the alternate of the county of Hordaland, Audun Bjørlo Lysbakken, there is an application to be exempted from meeting in Stortinget under the remainder of the Ågot Valles leave, from 16 February until further notice, for reasons of well-being. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. Other alternates of the county of Hordaland, Aud Karin Oen, are invited to meet on 18 and 19 February.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e46	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e69	At the request of the Financial Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes and that the speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a succession of up to five lines with replies following the intervention of the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister and three lines with replies from the main speakers of each party group and other members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e80	The international financial crisis is causing many countries, including Norway, to be hit hard. More people miss the job. Many are uncertain about the future. Therefore, the Government is facing the crisis with many different measures and instruments. The aim of the measures is to ensure employment. The budgetary policy package from the Government shall secure existing jobs and create new ones. After hearing, much contact with representatives of the labour and business sectors and consideration by the Financial Committee, the Government Party in the Stortinget has strengthened the action package further. We propose tax relief for businesses through two different measures, the extension of the permit rules and the introduction of a State guarantee scheme for the first hand placing on the market of fish. I note that both employees and managers have taken a good view of our proposals. They realize that the proposals will help stimulate the activity of society. The package is aimed at three large areas: municipalities will be able to bet heavily on upgrading schools and hospitals and filling swimming pools. The transport sector is still given a major boost to operation and investment in road, rail, ports and fairways. Maintenance and upgrading of state buildings such as hospitals, universities and high-rise buildings is also strengthened. All these measures will increase activity and ensure employment in the construction industry. They will undoubtedly also have major repercussions in other parts of the private sector. We have to make sure that profitable enterprises are not wound up due to temporary problems such as lack of liquidity. For this reason, the government party makes proposals that will provide tax relief of nearly DKK 5 billion in 2009 for companies affected by the crisis. For this year, companies will be able to return losses to previous surpluses. The annual amount of deficit is set at 20 million. kr. It applies to both 2008 and 2009. The scheme will improve the liquidity of many businesses in our country. It is likely to be not only for small and medium-sized enterprises but also for large enterprises. However, the main step towards improving the financing of enterprises is being taken through the establishment of the State Financial Fund and the State Bond Fund, a matter under consideration in the Financial Committee. Right, Christian People's Party and Left propose to lift the ceiling for the reversal of the deficit. It's a government party that disagrees. We mean that the removal of the roof can open up to tax adjustment, and that it is difficult to see the consequences of this. It will include: strengthen the motivation to achieve latent losses in 2009, e.g.: on ownership, and may result in the realisation and merger of internal group relationships. Such expressions would definitely be negative. As a result, the economic effects of the removal of the roof are highly unpredictable. The objections that I have raised here have also been passed on by the United Kingdom's government. There is a set of arrangements corresponding to the one we are proposing. The government party said that for 2009 a depreciation rate should be introduced for the purchase of machines of 30 pst. This measure will provide substantial help for large industrial enterprises. Rehabilitation and modernisation are becoming more profitable. The competitiveness will be strengthened. A central input from trade unions and many companies has been the need to adapt the rules of leave to a weak labour market. Therefore, the number of days of compulsory pay during the period of leave is reduced from ten to five. The government party enters the setting to extend the maximum daily allowance period during the period of leave to 52 weeks. The scheme shall apply from 1 February. An extension of the daily allowance period of leave will help companies to maintain competence during a period of low activity. We, who belong to the government party, believe it is important to have a flexible regulatory framework for permitting. This should happen without looking at the interests of employees. In view of this, we are asking the Government to start work quickly in order to increase the flexibility of rolling platforms. We ask the Government to propose this as soon as possible. In order to receive daily pay on leave, there is today a requirement that the working time be reduced by at least 50 pst. We ask the Government to consider the requirement to reduce working time in order to accept daily allowances on leave. The score is, if possible, to get a lower limit than 50 pst. This too must be done quickly. The situation in parts of the fishing industry is very difficult. The Financial Committee was clearly informed during the hearing. We are therefore in favour of an increased framework for guarantees to the fishing industry. It is necessary to ensure the reception of fish. The government is proposing to increase the guarantee frame. New numbers show, however, that this increase will not be sufficient. The government's party is going in to create a new system that can provide guarantees faster. We want a guarantee scheme for the first hand placing on the market of fish. The scheme shall be limited to two years. Innovation Norway shall assess the individual applications, including the degree of risk to be addressed in each case. The framework for the action is 525 million. kr. Of this guarantee amount, a total of 375 million was added. kr. It's positive that the opposition party has joined our proposal. In order to secure investment in small and medium-sized companies throughout the country, we strengthen the state management company Argentum by NOK 2 billion in equity. This will particularly benefit companies that are in a development phase. The measures that are now being introduced are the most strongly proposed against permitting and unemployment of more than 30 years. The Norwegian action package will provide the strongest incentive for all action packages in European countries when considering unemployment. It tells its clear language about the political will to act. The government action package had a frame of $20 billion. In addition, 7 billion dollars will be spent on the estimated changes and extended loan and guarantee frameworks of 8 billion kroner. During the process in Stortinget, the government has gone in to extend the budget to 21.7 billion kroner. In addition, the guarantee frame extension comes with a net of 375 million. kr. The proposals from the Progress Party add up to NOK 41.8 billion, including DKK 10 billion for infrastructure measures. In addition, the party would like to extend the tax deduction scheme, so that in 2008 and 2009, all companies with a deficit benefit from the scheme, regardless of whether they have had a surplus over the previous two years. The overall impact of the Progress Party proposal is therefore considerably greater than the number I just mentioned. The left's proposals add up to NOK 26.6 billion. Right ends with a frame of $29 billion, and the Christian People's Party launches proposals for a total cost of $30 billion. In these amounts, the proceeds of removing the roof of the return scheme are included. This is correct because here in the country we carry the state budget according to the cash principle. In a few years' time, if the economy resumes, much of the money will be returned to the state, but the budget will reflect the impact of the activity this year, i.e. the extent to which the economic activity is stimulated. This is a built-in principle on which at least all batches of government experience have been based. During the hearing of the Finance Committee, Professor Karen Helene Ulltveit-Moe said the following: Even if the activity goes down into parts of the economy and the unemployed path, there is a limit to how much extra oil money we can spend before the price rise and interest are determined. It is therefore striking that the opposition party, which expresses great concern about export-right business, is adding billions of dollars in its plans. There is a long tradition that the Progress Party has a use of money that other parties find irresponsible. On the other hand, it is sensational that the Right, which has promised to be the guarantor of a responsible economic policy, is committed to spending as much oil and gas money as they currently do. In its comments, the party of progress claims that ‘there is a general attitude that the rule of action should now be set aside’. This is incorrect. The action rule is flexible and opens to use more than 4 pst. of the return from the State pension fund — Rest of the world when there is a need to stimulate the economy extra. For consumers and companies with a lot of loans, interest rates have been very happy lately. The interest suspension from Norway Bank provides a strong incentive for private demand. If the central bank's interest rate is fully passed on to the central bank, it corresponds to, so far, increasing purchasing power of approximately. NOK 23 billion. This fact is definitely at home in the debate here in the country on economic activity and the need for incentives in the form of tax incentives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e122	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e125	I have one question for the chairman of the committee. Following the closure of the state budget last autumn, government parties and the government needed eight weeks to present a package of measures, rather than making concrete proposals in the process we spent seven weeks in Stortinget when we dealt with the state budget. Which of the measures included in the plan of action for which the government parties are now planning to go into, was there a need to spend eight weeks investigating before a conclusion could be made? Why could not any of these measures be taken in the seven-week process of the Great Britain with regard to the treatment of the State budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e132	Now I am not going to confront the representative, Leirstein, that he and his party do not have government experience, although it might be tempting when I heard what the question was going on. But I want to say that the time that has been spent from the state budget was presented at the beginning of October until now, has been used very well by the Government. A number of proposals have been put forward during this period. A bank package arrived shortly after the budget. Measures were put in place to help businesses through GIEK and Export Finance, and we were given a boost in the capital of the Municipal Bank, which has enabled municipalities to obtain more loans. Then we will have the fiscal policy package that we are dealing with today, which is powerful, and which is unparalleled in any European country if we take care of unemployment. And so we also have the package that is being processed now, that goes on the credit situation in our country. I mean, the government's spent a lot of time. It is important to have a good overview and insight, and I am sure that the measures we are now adopting will be targeted and accurate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e141	I just want to say for the record that I have government experience, and I still think that the representative Leirstein asked a timely question. That's for consideration. My question, however, is based on what the governor said yesterday in his speech. He pointed out that after the three good years we have now left behind financially, Norwegian industry has nevertheless weakened its competitiveness. One of the reasons for this is, of course, high cost developments — more than in other countries — but also that the Government has not been committed to what it had actually intended to spend on increasing oil money, namely to lower taxes and taxes, to transport and to research and development, as agreed in 2001. But this government has not. My question is then: why are you so concerned that the relief to be given to industry should be temporary? Why is it that industry is not actually going to become more competitive through the crisis, as many of its competitors would actually do?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e150	I want to tell the representative Foss that I have never intended to put him in the category of representatives without government experience. I respect the efforts made in his time as Minister of Finance. When it comes to what was his second point, namely the development of costs in Norwegian industry and facilitating industry on a permanent basis, both the Government and the government parties also focus on it, but what is seized in the fiscal policy package that we are discussing today is temporary measures to target the challenges we are currently facing, in particular, because of the international financial crisis. I believe that there is a broad consensus that these measures should be temporary and not permanent, precisely in order to defend the great use of oil and gas money that we are now putting in to help a business, especially the post-competitive, which is unfortunately arduous. We're going to do our part of the job to make everyday life easier for them, and also to make it better for the too many people who are now getting laid off or unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e157	In the committee's description of the economic situation, there is a lot to agree with. Sandal did not have much to do with the consequences for those who are now losing their jobs, and the needs they have both to help them get new work, and not least to ensure that their economy has a safety net. I record that in the description of Nav in the proposition you say that you are satisfied, and that you expect that Nav can now assist those who need it. Then we record that some visitors to Nav are told that they cannot get unemployment benefits in a couple of–three months, and that they will be able to get social assistance in the meantime. Is it the majority's view on how Nav should work in this particular situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e164	No, that's definitely not it, and I want to be very clear that the situation that we've been describing in the media in the last few days about the treatment some of the people who have been outsourced and unemployed get at the Nav office, especially in Oslo and in Hordaland – that's where the challenges are greatest – is unacceptable. I want to say it so strongly. There is an unacceptable situation for those who do not receive it from the government auxiliaries to be provided when they are outsourced or unemployed. We have decided today that 320 new settings will be created in connection with the Employment and Welfare Act. That's good. But I want to stress that the new information we have received, we need to take it very seriously, and I trust that the Government and the Minister of Labour and Inclusion, as they are here, will have a great deal of focus on this in order to impose additional measures to remedy the situation, which is unacceptable.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e169	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e173	There are times in the Norwegian economy that very many will eventually notice the negative consequences of, unfortunately. We are constantly getting reports of companies that have to wind up, permit and cancel people, and it's clear that the financial crisis we're all talking about is having consequences for a number of people in Norway. That is why I am pleased that there is a consensus in Norway that action needs to be taken in several areas. Then, of course, we would like to have a debate on the measures that may come a little in retrospect in some areas, but I do not feel that it should be the main point of this debate today. I note that almost all the measures promoted by the Government have gathered a broad majority in the Grand Duchy. The measures are agreed. Norway is in a special position financially. We have some economic muscles that I think very many other countries envy Norway. The fact that a good deal of action can now be taken to meet the increased unemployment rate is particularly positive. However, in some areas, the Progress Party in the vote has proposed that we should actually go a little further. So even if you agree on a lot in this setting, I get a few minutes to focus on what we miss, and we think the government should actually do something more about it, possibly in addition to what you have suggested. The Progress Party is absolutely convinced that using the tax resource, reducing taxes and taxes, in the situation we are in, would have been very positive. We know that parts of the trading stand report uncertain times and will notice that very many tighten the lifeline. Many people in this sector may be at risk of becoming unemployed. In the package of measures promoted by the Government, few measures are aimed at helping and contributing to the level of trade. The reduction of taxes and taxes would have been positive. Reducing the tax on persons, pensioners and employees would have been very sensible, so that more people could increase purchasing power and contribute to maintaining employment in the trading world. It would have been very positive if you had cut the employer's fee. The Progress Party proposes a cut in the employer’s fee of around NOK 2 billion to meet the fact that at least an employer’s fee is not payable for apprentices and that the employer’s fee for older workers is reduced. It would have helped to make sure that these groups are not particularly affected in the situation we are in. Then, like the other opposition parties, the Progress Party proposes to reverse the increased tax imposed on business from the New Year. It was incredibly unwise by the Government and government parties to tromp through before Christmas an increased tax boost for business when one is in a situation where the business community reports major challenges and the Stortinge is said to be concerned about this situation. The Progress Party also promotes proposals for further investment in infrastructure, in particular towards loan mandates and an increased escalation to launch major projects in the road sector, with a framework of DKK 10 billion, in addition to a further DKK 1.5 billion for rail. In the situation we're in now, it makes sense not only to go into the projects that the Government has outlined, but also to set bigger projects in motion, to give larger loan frameworks to those who are doing this, so that you can start planning and getting started. Many of these projects will take some time before their impact on the Norwegian economy. That's why it's important that we give proper powers so that you can get started properly. I am pleased with the changes that the government parties introduced in the cancellation, which are subject to the permit rules, and to increased depreciation, and that the tax credit ceiling was increased. That was positive. I'm glad that the government parties in this round actually chose to listen to the recordings they got at the hearing, because in the last three and a half years it has been largely absent that the government parties here in the Chamber have chosen to listen to what has come through hearings. So this was a positive and new experience. That's a shame there's a short time left of the period! I note that we largely agree on this. Then we have some anomalies. I have to spend the rest of my time commenting on the short situation in Nav. When many now become unemployed, many unfortunately experience getting into that situation, we see that Nav, who should be the one to assist these people, has played down in many ways. I hope that the Prime Minister and others will address the Nav challenge. In any case, the party is promoting a proposal today that the available capacity should now be used, among other things. are in the private market related to employment, so that one can relieve Nav and gain a necessary labour force, so that people do not walk without action and without a daily allowance, etc. disproportionately long time. With this, I would like to address all the proposals made by the Progress Party, either alone or with others.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e192	The representative Ulf Leirstein has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e197	As the Chairman of the Financial Committee, Reidar Sandal, pointed out in his statement, the Progress Party writes in a note: ‘It is a general view that the rule of action should now be set aside.’ What does the Progress Party base this on? The Progress Party is not aware that the action rule is flexible and opens to use more than 4 pst. by State pension fund — Rest of the world when economic development is weak?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e207	We note that, at least in all years since its introduction in 2001, the rule of action has been interpreted relatively flexibly. Most of the years have never been chosen to follow the rule of action, even though a large majority have pointed out that it is important to follow it. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats notes the fact that it is now being set aside. Then you'd like to interpret what you want. But it's clear that now you're starting a kind of use of money that you obviously think on the part of the government parties has no limit, and that's going to be something special. The Progress Party is pleased that it is now in fact a general position to use some of the oil resources we have to make sensible investments, including: within infrastructure, which has unfortunately been neglected by the majority of the population over many decades.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e212	I have noticed the deafening silence that we are experiencing today from those who are fighting to eliminate the regulation of financial markets. The Progress Party has programmed that the money and credit markets should be regulated by market supply and demand, without political regulation or intervention. It's been a while since we've heard the figures of the Progress Party defend this, but the proposal for a new principal programme says that the power of the public must be limited in order to preserve the individual's rights and freedom of action. Today, we have learned at consultations with the Swedish Banking Authority and Norway’s Bank, among others. that half of the North American credit market was not subject to capital requirements and banking supervision until the bubble broke, which is the background to our standing here. But can the representative Leirstein say something about what the programme formulations have to say for the Progress Party's view now on the regulation of financial institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e221	What is interesting is to look at how the Progress Party has voted and what proposals we have been making in this Chamber for many years. It is entirely in line with the program formulation that is now in our party program. When we talk about regulation of the financial market, almost all of the issues in the last few years have passed Stortinget unanimously. It is therefore agreed on the level of regulation required to ensure a good market economy and a good financial market. There's no disagreement about that to any particular degree. It is clear that SV, who actually wanted more nationalisation of some markets, has chosen to go away from it. I'm so glad. But let me just say it right away: there is not much disagreement in Norwegian policy on what level we are going to have in the regulation of financial markets. Virtually all the issues that go on this, we've agreed on when we've worked them out in the finance committee. I am pleased that in a number of areas too, the Progress Party has been successful, including: the conduct of monetary policy, including: The Progress Party, the Labour Party and a number of other parties have agreed on the introduction of the system we have today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e230	I tried to follow closely in the language used by the Political Spokesman of the Progress Party, and it was that there was a need to ‘go a little further’, it should have been ‘do something more’, possibly ‘do something more’. Then we got a fairly liberal outline of more of the good. What was done too little of this was to help the trading booth with tax reliefs on a private hand. No mention was made of the significant reductions in interest rates that significantly increase purchasing power. It was mentioned in the section of the employer’s fee in general and for apprentices and the elderly, and it was mentioned that we had to invest in sensible investments. There was no priority, there was a lack of priority. My question is: why is there still a lack of priority regarding the measures taken by the Progress Party to deal with the serious situation we are facing?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e239	I think that's where I and the representative Lundtigen have a different sense of reality. I feel that the Progress Party in the setting we are dealing with here today is absolutely clear on what we should do. I said something about it in my post. It is clear that in a number of areas now, this increase agrees on where a number of measures can be put in place to combat increased unemployment. But I am absolutely convinced that, among other things, in terms of investment in infrastructure, too little is done in relation to the enormous increase in unemployment that we know of in this area. We know that we have great aftermath, as the representative Lundtigen has also pointed out through various media performances, and that in fact, too little has been done for many years, for which the representative Lundtigen is partly co-responsible, since he is in one of the government parties. You could do more now, once you have the opportunity. We have the labour force, no one can blame anyone for the fact that there is any problem. We could have started the big projects. We miss that, among other things. in the Government’s proposals – that the major projects, including: in infrastructure, not being chiseled out now. This should be done, and what might have to be done in the national transport plan should have been pushed out before the summer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e248	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e251	The financial crisis and the decline in the economy affect individuals. It affects people who lose their jobs, it affects families and, in some cases, the entire community. Throughout the autumn and winter, forecasts have become worse almost a week. Even with many major crisis packages, unemployment is predicted to increase to over 120 000 unemployed. Get dry prediction when it turns. The most oblique are probably those who have understood the least of the seriousness of the crisis. In this situation, people must be able to expect us as politicians to find solutions that create predictability and security. It is time for cooperation and pragmatism, not for games and dogmatism. The right focusses on acting constructively in the current crisis and on helping to find sensible solutions. It is a strength that an aggregate increase has been behind the first banking package, that everyone has expressed a positive opinion on the second banking package, and that there is also an overall increase in support for today's proposals that relate to the public sector and construction. But there, unfortunately, the agreement stops. The red-green parties have not shown any real willingness to discuss measures that can help the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in cities and towns that have owners and employees fighting every single day to secure jobs – measures for the many enterprises that do not face an open door in the government quarter but that have only brought with them an extra backpack of tax increases in the face of financial crisis and recession, measures for the many and medium-sized enterprises that are struggling because the Government has put on the business policy break button and increased taxes every year. It doesn't last to use half of the toolbox, we have to use all the tools to create security for the jobs and new optimism. This case shows that it is a political alternative to the red-green solutions. On the right, together with the other civil parties, a series of proposals on tax reductions is being put forward in order to provide greater security for jobs and to enable the companies that are still doing well to make new investments. The Government is concerned that all instruments should be temporary. The effects are most active — and effective over time — on the right. We have to have two thoughts in our head at the same time. Firstly, we need to take measures that can dampen the growth of unemployment and provide greater security for those who are losing their jobs. Secondly, we need to take measures that can create optimism and help to make us stronger out of the crisis. The right is proposing to spend about DKK 5 billion in addition to the government's proposal to create room for tax cuts for businesses, jobs and people with normal wage incomes and to get a stronger focus on knowledge and the environment. In order to provide security for those in the process of losing their jobs, the Right proposes more flexible rules of leave, and we propose increased appropriations for basic training in the labour market and for company internal training. In order to provide assistance to the many small and medium-sized enterprises, the Right proposes to remove the tax consolidation provided by the Government to family-run enterprises and to postpone the tax on profits in 2008 in order to increase the room for good businesses in 2009, and we propose own measures for the fisheries sector. In order to create optimism and to ensure that we can get out of the crisis, the Right proposes better depreciation rules for companies that are doing well, in order to stimulate new investments. We propose a significant improvement in the TaxFUNN scheme to motivate companies to invest more in research and development. Experience from the previous crisis shows that it was important to focus on tax reductions, on knowledge and on research and development. In order to ensure that measures can help promote more environmentally friendly behaviour and production, the Right Green Depreciation proposes to stimulate renewable energy production, we propose measures to promote investment in more environmentally friendly heating in business buildings, and we propose, together with the Christian People's Party and the Left, a separate environmental premium for the purchase of environmentally friendly cars. It is important that in the crisis situation we are now in, we also be able to think about how we can stimulate more environmentally friendly behaviour. We need to use the crisis as a turning point to create new ideas and new profitable businesses and to ensure more environmentally friendly behaviour. With this, I address the proposals where the Right is the proposer or co-sponsor – except those that have already been raised – and ask that the incuriency that has taken place in the vote, namely that the Right does not appear together with the Christian People's Party in terms of proposals linked to the chapter. 1330, entry 75, corrected by voting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e281	The representative Jan Tore Sanner has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e287	In the context of the action package, the representative Jan Tore Sanner has repeatedly called for greater investment in tax relief. This despite the fact that both research and studies show that other measures are far more effective in getting people to work. Before Christmas, there was a study by the Postbank that showed that three out of four would use the tax credit for saving rather than increased consumption. Estimates have also been made by the Statistical Centre to show that other measures are clearly more effective to counter the financial crisis. The short version is that both the use of funds for public purchases of goods and services and for public investment, not to mention the use of funds for public employment, are far more effective. Why should death and life rights be taxed for individuals when both studies and research show that other measures are far more effective in increasing employment?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e292	I registered that the Labour Party's main spokesman in this case boasted that the Government had now introduced tax reliefs. Although, in reality, it is only a tax shift, it boasted that these were tax reliefs. So there must be a small belief in the Workers' Party that this is a sensible tool. Now I don't think it hurts if households use some of the tax relief to pay off debts. I think, on the contrary, that might make sense. However, the experience from Norway, from the previous crisis we were in, and the international experience is that a balance of efforts is important. Therefore, the Right supports the measures targeting the public sector, which target construction and construction, in order to maintain and progress in infrastructure construction, but we believe that the package also needs to be balanced with tax relief for enterprises, jobs and people with normal employee income. In our package, about one third of the measures are related to tax reduction. That is what we think we will be able to create more security and optimism in companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e301	In practice, in the proposals from the Right, there is a significant acceptance of increasing public money to stimulate the economy in the face of the crisis. And it reminds me of the last time we were in a low economic recession and had debates about this in this room, where the then government, with Jan Tore Sanner as one of its spokesmen, was strong in its resistance to meeting the decline in public consumption, and instead bet on taxes and loan-funded private consumption. To put it simply, that government met the downhill to clean up private bathrooms, while we are now meeting it to clean up schools. So the winds change, the ideological ones too, and I think that's interesting. I would like to hear with Jan Tore Sanner why he is today for what he was against at the time – whether he can explain the ideological transformation he has undergone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e308	If that were true, it would have been a very interesting exercise, but it isn't. If one goes back and sees what the Centre-Right Government did in the recession that we were in then, it was just getting balanced measures that meant both increasing public money use and tax cuts, as we are now proposing. However, it is no surprise that in 2002–03, SV would spend even more on public budgets than the Right and the other bourgeois parties wanted to do, nor is it a great surprise that SV still has a dogmatic resistance to tax relief in the situation we now face. I now believe as at the time that balanced measures are needed to ensure greater security for those who are losing their job – I record that SV does not support proposals for more flexible permitting rules. Furthermore, there is a need for measures to stimulate more environmentally friendly behaviour — I note that SV does not support those measures either — and that we need measures both for maintenance and for tax reductions that can speed up the private sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e315	The right fiscal spokesman has recently started with two formulations: ‘cooperation and pragmatism’ and ‘to act constructively’. However, the old characteristics come gradually: it's not a drag for the thousands of small business owners, they've got an extra backpack, it's a break button in business policy, it's half a toolbox, and so on. I think there's a little bit of a connection between the invitation and the characteristics. I also think it's going to be pretty sad when someone tries to come up with their option, where, for example, business policy was going to be one of the central ones. For what is the Right actually in business policy? Does anyone want to enter and convert and stimulate continuing vigorous activities in Norway? Is there a need for specific measures in the fisheries sector? Or is there still a need for business neutrality and general instruments to ensure the development and conversion capacity of industry in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e322	I believe there is a need for cooperation and pragmatism. I note that the Minister of Finance and the Government have shown the same pragmatism in relation to the measures now being targeted at the banking sector. It is not the case that the red-green government chooses state solutions with regulation in relation to the bank package. On the contrary, pragmatic solutions are chosen where you play with the market and not with the market, and the Minister of Finance deserves some credit for that. Similarly, the Right believes that in the situation we are now, we need to think pragmatically. We have to be concerned about finding sensible solutions. It is not ideology that has to come first, but measures that can secure the jobs of businesses. The representative Lundtigen knows that the Right has recorded many proposals for the Government to get into dialogue, to get into an interaction, but we have not met the same will for cooperation from the government parties here in the Stortinget. And yes, right-wing measures can help the fisheries sector out of the current situation. We are occupied by the many thousands in small and medium-sized enterprises, whether they are in fisheries, trade and services or other industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e329	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e332	On Wednesday evening, the message came that all hope was out for Fundo Wheels in Høyanger. That means that 300 people no longer have a job to go to, and that the prospects for a new job are small for most of them in the near future. This means that 300 people go from active contributors in Norwegian society to social security. Such events do a lot with people, and it does a lot with a community like Høyanger. From my own county we get similar messages – from Kongsberg, from Rollag and from Whiteningfoss. I would like to stress that the bankruptcy of the company Fundo Wheels is not due to bad operation or bad decisions. Fundo is one of many companies that are affected by the international financial crisis these days. When people lose faith in the future, they don't buy a new car. Nor do the car manufacturers buy rims, and the workers in Høyanger lose the job. One of the most important results of the red-green government has been that we have had over 200,000 more people working since we took over. The number of unemployed was halved from 2005 to 2008. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. When demand for the Norwegian economy produces, it has fallen significantly, both domestically and abroad, unemployment has increased again. Through the package of measures that we are dealing with today, and other measures, we are countering much of the domestic demand failure. This means that unemployment is lower than it would otherwise have been. Estimates indicate that 15 000 fewer people will be unemployed at the end of this year as a result of this package. There are 15 000 fewer who will feel redundant. There are 15 000 fewer who will be uncertain about their economic situation. There are 15 000 fewer who want to live on social security. But we're not able to stop the growth in unemployment. We can do a lot to keep the activity in Norway up, but we can do little about Americans, Swedes and English people buying fewer cars, fewer armchairs or smaller fish. Companies that are not allowed to sell their products abroad are difficult to save. Fundo in Høyanger is an example of this. I think it is important in this debate to remember the background that the whole world is now experiencing an economic crisis that we have not seen in decades. Banks and other financial institutions around the world have put unhindered greed into systems. And politicians all over the world, but primarily in the United States, have allowed them to do this. We are now aware that half of the US credit market was not subject to capital requirements and banking supervision. In banking, performance pay is very common. The remuneration of the bank manager depends on the profitability of the bank, often in the short term, and the development of the share price, the remuneration of the loan manager depends on how much the bank earns on loans, and the wages of the so-called consultants who sell savings products to the bank's customers depend on how much they get customers to bet, etc. And all the reward systems go from year to year. Simply put, if a bank in good times lends as much money as possible, there are very many in the bank who make good money on it. We have seen that this results in a lack of risk assessment for the bank. We have seen that fast money in our own account is the driving force, and that the customer's needs and social interests are different. The banks must therefore be strictly regulated. The mistake made by the United States was that they stopped regulating significant parts of the financial market – in line with the ideological leaders on the right who thought that the market would settle this on its own, and that the role of the authorities had to be minimised. For example, the US investment banks could previously borrow a maximum of twelve times their equity. This restriction was removed in April 2004. When Lehman Brothers went bankrupt last September, they had borrowed 30-40 times their equity. It was not surprising that this speculator cracked. The surprising thing was how big a bubble had pulled to be before it narrowed, and how great the consequences have been in all parts of the world. Now we're doing what we can to help companies sell their goods abroad. A very serious situation requires unusual instruments. Therefore, SV supports targeted tax relief to business. This is to a large extent about postponing tax payments from today's difficult economic situation to more normal times, but also about measures to stimulate those who have the opportunity to make investments this year rather than next year. Good enterprises facing difficulties as a result of the crisis are being helped to get through a difficult period of time. It must not be interpreted as a general desire from SV for a lower level of taxation, but as a response to the very special challenges we face today. Finally, I would like to stress the responsibility we have to take care of those who are hardest hit by the financial crisis. Unemployment is a problem for those who lose their jobs, but also for people around them. We know that unemployment is often accompanied by life problems and other social and mental problems. It is therefore important that municipalities now use some of the increased funds they have been provided with to increase preparedness for those who need more help than daily allowances. Indebtedness counselling, child protection and mental health services must be strengthened. The aim of all our management of the crisis package must be that, even after the crisis is over, we have Europe's lowest unemployment rate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e364	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e367	In the last few months, the Socialist Left has repeatedly said that tax haven't been the right instrument to boost the Norwegian economy and economic growth. But now, in this last package of measures in the context of the financial crisis, there is some tax relief to speed up the Norwegian economy and reduce unemployment. We see that the rest of Europe, the rest of the world, even Obama, uses powerful tax havens to get the economy going again. Can we expect more tax relief than spring from the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e374	Now that we are in favour of this tax burden in the package of measures, it is because it is targeted and concrete. It is not that the SV as well as the Progress Party believe that tax laws make sense in all contexts. I'll say it like this: Last weekend I was going to the cabin. There it's very steep up there, and it was smooth. Then I do something exceptional, as we do with the package of measures: I put chains on and drive up. The progress party runs with chains all year round, and we know who's on chains when we get to St. Hans times. It's a bad move.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e380	The right has played an important role in using the crisis situation constructively to contribute to the low-carbon society of the future and to a more sustainable business. That is why we must now use the situation we are in to create lasting improvements that can help to resolve the climate crisis and the financial crisis. It surprises me, however, that SV does not fully agree with that. In the crisis package, the Right, together with several of the other civil parties, have voted in favour of proposals for, among others. environment-friendly energy, power supply, investment in new technologies, etc. We have at all tried to make this crisis package more environmentally friendly. Why is SV voting against these proposals? Can the representative, Mr Bergo, justify why SV will not be involved in making this crisis package more environmentally friendly, by agreeing with the civil parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e387	If the representative of Hofstad Helleland has read the statement, she will have seen that the Government has two main objectives with this package. One goes to unemployment and jobs, and the other to have a green profile on what's going on. What amazes me with all the suggestions that come in addition, is that the Right now is involved in everything and a little bit extra. It's easy to make a lot of good suggestions when you don't have any financial constraints. I see that the billions from all the opposition parties are now floating freely, and it surprises me that the Right now seems to be taking up the competition with the Advance Party to spend as many billions as possible. I would also like to point out that to me the opposition looks like a box of rabbits. They're in the same box, but they jump and jump and jump and come out in each direction at any time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e396	It would be fun to draw this parallel with rabbits in a box over to the Government as well, but I won't do it. I would like to remind the representative of a line change I had not long ago with another SV on the same committee, the representative Heikki Holmås, where I asked if he was unable to say anything nice about companies. Then he said that yes, there are some companies that are very small and go very bad, and that he thought was very all right. That is why I was very pleased that Bergo today said so much correctly and important about the importance of our companies, our industry and measures to do something about it. Now it is that the fraction of which he is part has made significant improvements for the companies in the committee's work. Does that mean that the representative of Bergo was dissatisfied with what the government presented to the export industry and the companies?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e403	I would like to hear the representative Sponheim's comment if we had not heard what appeared in the hearings and from the opposition. Then the question had become something of the same thing, but with the opposite angle: why don't you follow it? The representative Sponheim has also said in the past that things are happening quickly, and it changes from week to week. From the crisis package proposal to today, major changes have also taken place. We believe that the proposals that have been made, both from the opposition and during the hearing, are sensible. We've taken note of it, and we're in on it. I think Sponheim should boast of us and be satisfied with the changes we have made, in line with him, instead of saying that perhaps there was something wrong with the package initially. It's a recognition that we're in difficult times with tough challenges. We're on the alert all the time, and we're taking the challenges from week to week. And the representative of Sponheim should also be pleased with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e410	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e413	I have to say at the last exchange of lines that I actually realized that the representative Sponheim was about to give praise, but it is possible that they are not receptive in the SV's books for the time being. At least I understood it this way. Just before this debate in the United Kingdom, the Financial Committee had a hearing relating to the package of measures presented by the Government here. This well illustrates the extent to which the use of instruments now needs to be able to counteract an economic downturn – at least as far as our instruments are concerned. It also adds to the bank package adopted earlier by Stortinget in the autumn of last year. When the package of measures was announced, we informed – and there was also an overall opposition – that we are interested in dialogue, that together we are looking for instruments to improve the economic situation and prevent more than necessary unemployment. It is true, there have been a few meetings with the Prime Minister, and we have also been told that we could provide input to the package of measures to come – and that was with a 24-hour notice. So some kind of companionship has been. Saying that there has been dialogue, is probably an excessive use of that word. But we record that on some points there is a reasonable consensus about the device. We agree on measures on the maintenance side: road and rail. Not least in municipalities, where there is a high level of maintenance kits, action may be taken quickly. We also agree that we should use this situation to promote the climate objectives set by a broad majority here in the United Kingdom through the climate agreement. Now it should also be said that it was the opposition that helped to clarify the objectives of the seventh and last stages and to make them more offensive. It is reflected in the fact that the opposition goes further in order to promote climate objectives in relation to the package of measures we are now discussing. For us, it is also important that the measures have socio-economic benefits that can also extend beyond this and next year, that we contribute in the long term to strengthening the competitiveness of businesses in this country, and that we provide for investment, for example. in the case of transport, which has already been planned for the following years. We have also seen it as important, not least because there has been so much unrest — and back and forth related to the higher education and university sectors — that it helps to strengthen Norway as an important knowledge nation. Some of the proposals promoted by the Christian People's Party either on their own behalf or with others clearly have a different profile in terms of tax changes. We believe that it was wrong for the government to increase the tax in the ordinary budget we had before Christmas. We believe it's time to reverse this. We also want to further increase the tax FUNN ceiling. We want to reduce the employer’s fee for new apprentices. And we also want a better tax credit scheme than what the government has presented. In addition, we increase depreciation rates for agricultural machinery, equipment and buildings, and depreciation rates for ships, fishing vessels and rigging are also increased. On the environment and energy side, we want further investment in bioenergy, hydropower and wind power – greater investment in renewable energy in general through Enova. Then, in concrete terms, we have proposed – and here I would like to have the majority support – that we now try to force the change for car purchases. We have e.g. proposed an environmental premium of NOK 25 000 for the purchase of a new car with a CO2 emission below 120 g/km from 1 July 2009. It is an instrument that Sweden has successfully used, and we see that we are looking to reverse the purchasing policy for cars in this country. Then we're glad that the government parties have looked at the rules of permitting. I also expect that the comments made by the government parties as a leader of the government can also mean reducing the requirement for a permit to 20 pst. in order to be entitled to a daily allowance. It might be interesting if the majority parties would say something about it. Then we too wish – and that is among other things. to strengthen local business – an earmarked grant for church maintenance in 2009. There are a large number of churches that need maintenance, and it will largely benefit the whole of local business, because there are relatively small assignments to be given, which then go to the locals. Here the projects are very clear and can be implemented quickly and also provide a corresponding rapid employment effect. Several of the speakers here have been on Innovation Norway. We are thinking in particular about the situation of Fisheries Norway both in terms of loss provisions and the fishing lead subsidies. Here it seems that we in the committee have come to some agreement, and we are pleased about that. In addition, we want a separate investment grant for agriculture of 150 million. kr, and also an Innovation Furniture grant of 10 mills. kr – all in order to contribute to increased activity in these sectors and to prevent unemployment in the year in which we are living. Then we also want to strengthen Ecocrime. The situation in Økokrim is today that there are cases that are under investigation, where one could have continued to investigate and probably also filed charges. In a situation where ecocrim itself says that the financial situation in enterprises increases the risk for, among other things. corruption, it is time to ensure that Ecocrim has good working conditions. Finally, I cannot fail to address the situation in Nav. It's very easy to hang out in numbers – 100,000, 120 000 or 140 000 unemployed, whatever the result is when we see the top of the unemployment queue. What we have to expect in any case is that we have a public appliance that accepts in a proper and dignified way those who lose their jobs and who are either going to seek a new job, get a change of job or otherwise need Nav's help. Some of the points with Nav were to bring together the three institutions — social services, Aetat and social security services — so that they would work for the benefit of the individual user. So the messages are out there that the opposite is happening, and that – under the same hat – people who should actually have unemployment benefits are referred to the social office. I record that the committee leader was very clear saying that this is unacceptable. I fully support that. We from the opposition have asked for a separate statement from the responsible state council. I expect that this is such an unacceptable situation that immediate action will be taken, not promoting a matter that will work far into the future. With that, I address our proposals – those we have either promoted with others or on our own. Sigvald Uppøen Hansen had here taken over the president's seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e458	The representative Hans Olav Syversen has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e463	The representative Syversen took in a reply to me earlier today, raising the conditions for those people who unfortunately become the subject of leave and unemployment. I want to stress that I understand that the representative Syversen did that, and I fully accept the commitment he showed in that context. From the position that the Finance Committee has presented to the Stortinget, and which we are now discussing, it is clear that the Christian People's Party is opposed to extending the daily allowance period to 52 weeks, a system that we are proposing to help the best of those who are being permitted. So my question has to be, why won't the Christian People's Party help those who are being perpetrated in a difficult time?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e472	It's a good technique to say what some people are against, and not what they are for. We are to increase the period of leave in line with what was proposed by the Government. In addition, we believe that the rules on permitting should be more flexible. I have seen that there is also an engagement that the government parties share – without doing anything concrete about it – not least because there are many companies that want to give a handshake to their employees by taking a joint permit, for example. one day a week, and then a day's allowance is paid for that day. This hinders the regulations of the day, and I hope the government will do something about it. It would be a handshake for those who want to contribute collectively in the different businesses. Then I am concerned that the government parties could also look at the situation in Nav – how it can be improved today and not even far into the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e479	It has been important for responsible parties in Norwegian politics to have responsible use of oil money, and I would like to stress that SV is among the responsible parties. The exemption from this has been the Progress Party, which has distinguished itself by having money for all good purposes. But now we see that all the bourgeois parties spend much more money than the government does without justifying it either in the suspension or in the debate. The question of the Syvers is: does the Christian People's Party wish to approach the Progress Party in economic policy, or do they only have problems in prioritizing?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e488	First I would like to inform you that SV is a responsible party. I can agree with that. Everything suggests that not at least three years of government experience has had its effect. With regard to the use of oil money, I think everyone should think a little bit about now before characterizing the use of others in the situation we are now, which is entirely cyclical. I registered that when the government put on the table a package of about 20 billion kroner, however, the governor put interest down by half a percentage point immediately afterwards. This shows that we are in a situation where the general considerations about oil money use have to be adjusted a little. In general, I would say that we stick to the rule of action, but that we should use more in bad times, and in better times we should tighten up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e498	Fortunately, in the past we have had an economic policy that has been fully responsible for several years, so we can now make as good and ambitious plans as we do today, in the difficult times. The Christian People's Party has also shown financial responsibility in the past. I noticed that the Seven in parts of its article angled in on the environmental side. It has been added to an ambitious green profile in this which the representative also fully supported, but they would go further. The representative referred to certain areas, e.g. hydroelectric development – which I fully agree with the Christian People's Party. But will the Christian People's Party add a new regime here with regard to the protection decisions we have taken in this area? Would they like to join in and open up again to look at an extension?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e505	When the representative Nordtun refers to the previously responsible economic policy that had been pursued, I expect him to refer in particular to the period 2001-2005 with the Bondevik II government. At least it provided a good basis for a responsible economic policy. So I thank you for the rose that was indirectly in it. In the case of a new regime for the development of hydropower, I don't think Nordtun's representative will count on that. For example, what I referred to is: further incentives for more use of small-scale power plants. Among other things, we had: a clear dispute last year related to tax rules to stimulate more use of small power plants, and the Government turned fortunately into a revised budget and helped us to make more use of the resource represented by small power plants. And that's in the direction we want to go still.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e512	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e515	The United Nations describes three crises: financial crisis, climate crisis and food crisis. The food crisis is a bit of a concern in Norway, but it is an ethical horror. 1 billion people in the world are starving, and hunger is starving. I sincerely hope that we do not get a combination of "anger and hunger". It can, however, easily get out of the world, which I'm going to get back to. The financial crisis had to come. It may not have come as a surprise to those who have facilitated the free flow of capital. It is impossible to regulate when the principle is free of capital, and it is also impossible to regulate when one does not have international institutions with the power and mandate to have it as its object, rather on the contrary. The impact of the financial crisis in Norway is seen in the real economy. Our production companies are now hit – in a row and in a row. I also want to say a little bit more about the social unrest, which, in the opinion of the Center Party, is the most demanding and the most frightening thing we're facing. According to EU observations of today’s United States National Security Service Chief Dennis Blair, the main safety risk for the United Nations is now the global economic crisis and its geopolitical implications – greater than Al Qaida. That's very clear. We now see how important it is to have an active state that can counteract the crisis. In Norway, we have the ability to do so, and it is the main focus of the Regestingas — also the Centre Party — to ensure basic security: housing, work and income. We're going into a new era when there's got to be more long-term attitudes in economic policy, as putting stones on rocks is going to be more of a concern. There is hope that we can get a new course, where growth may not be consuming more, but managing better. There are many small things that need to be done to change the course of the big shot that have now entered a water that has more and more icebergs around it. We now see a cleansing of the role of the nation states. We see that nation states around the world are in practice taking action to ensure their citizens' security and security. We must now have a combination of the role of nation states and a revision of the international institutions that can ensure international regulation, so that nation states do not turn their problems over to the peoples of other countries. It requires a review of the mandate of both the International Monetary Fund, the World Bank and the World Trade Organisation — for example: ‘from free trade to fair trade’ for the trade organisation. That should be a principle. There are many happy things in the action pack. There are very fine measures related to investment in the municipal sector and in the transport sector. There is a need for action — which has been addressed at short notice — in relation to the challenges posed by fishing industries. There are improvements to the legislation on permitting, and there are also instruments related to Nav. In the case of Nav and the labour market, I want to add a couple of sentences. Here, it is central that Nav is given resources and prioritises its resources so that the weakest can retain their ability to enter the labour market now, when there are difficulties. What's most demanding for us now is the necessary transformation in the business world. Here, the Government has made exceptional start-ups for investments in machinery in 2009. It is a first important step that signals an increased willingness to change in business. And in that area, we have profit. We have a surplus on the current account. We have a surplus on the state budget. We have a lot of access to natural resources. We have competence, and we have industrial experience. Whereas it is now necessary for the Community to enter into its economic capacity to pay for the organisation of future modern industrial activities; As an illustration of environmentally friendly technology, I would particularly like to point out the need for increased investment in the production of wood-based bioenergy. This is an international growth market in which Norway, through its forest resources and industrial competences, has a competitive advantage. This means that the market for environmentally friendly bioenergy solutions can ensure a new bone for the Norwegian woodworking industry. It is therefore important to refer to the work now being done in Norwegian Forest and in other wood processing plants on the development of technologies for the production of bio-oil and 2nd generation biodiesel. This is a concrete example of a necessary transition in an important industry for Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e536	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e539	I registered some of the statements from the representative Lundteg – that the financial crisis had to come, that it had to go wrong when you had free trade, that we now have to have a new course, and that one has exhausted the market. He also used this cover: we must now go from free trade to fair trade. I could well imagine that he deepens this a little bit closer, because there is some country that benefits from free trade and from an open trade, it is precisely Norway – which has a one-sided production, which is forced to import most of the things that the country needs, but also has things to export. When the representative Lundtägen wants to move from free trade to fair trade, does that mean that politicians and bureaucrats must regulate each one can be allowed to act?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e546	In any civilised organisation, those with democratic responsibility must organise the framework conditions. It also applies to trade. That's the way it's always been. What we have experienced in recent years is that we have had a development in Norway that has become increasingly commodity-oriented. We export our raw materials. Then there's someone who then thought that this would be the future, that we would be an exporter of raw materials, and that China would stand for the production of the finished products, which we then got back. This has been the case in many Western countries. This has also been the case in the United States, which has become more and more dependent on production in China. It turns out that over time this won't work in a good way. One has to change this system, so that one gets a greater deal of processing of the raw materials near where the raw materials are, with the positive environmental consequences that it has. This is a concrete example of the significant changes we are facing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e553	I hear the representative Lundtegen say he's seen the crisis coming for a long time. I then wonder – with such a clear-sighted person on the team – that it had to be February 2009 before Stortinget was given the opportunity to discuss the Government's proposal on what we are going to do with this. However, my question to Lundtigen concerns small and medium-sized enterprises, of which there are thousands, especially in District Norway. The measures proposed for these enterprises in the budget for 2009 and in this revision of the budget, which is really this package of measures, are just one thing, and there are tax increases. The question of Lundtigen is then this: How could Lundtigen, based on his party, take care of the districts, and also in the light of the clarity he has expressed earlier today, allow this to happen?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e560	I'll turn the gentle cheek. It's an advantage many times. When it comes to seeing the consequences of the free flow policy, it is not a matter of particular clarity on my part. However, I have seen that the free movement policy would not work over time. It is quite simple logic, for a society that has to take on long-term and numerous considerations, must have mechanisms other than the greatest possible profit as its primary objective in social organisation. With regard to the important thing, the small enterprises, it is true that those with large equity will receive a slightly higher tax on an inheritance settlement, while those with medium equity will receive less tax. This is a theme we come back to in its wide width.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e569	I want to follow up on what the representative, Mr Lundtägen, was about to say that we need to be more involved in processing the fish in Norway. Now, as long as we are not a member of the EU, we will meet customs barriers on processed fish products. My first question is then whether the representative Luntegen is concerned that if we impose the farming industry and the fishing industry on processing the fish in Norway – I do not know quite how to regulate this – this will lead to a poorer basis, and that we simply praise ourselves out of the market, that it will not be profitable. Another thing: When the representative Lundtigen talks that we have to produce more in Norway, I thought he had the order that we should flag the washing machine production to Norway. Is this one of the measures and instruments envisaged by the representative Lundteg?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e578	Washing machine is a useful tool! When it came into focus in its time, it had the basis in a quotation of the famous economist Keynes. [[Laughter]] The same Keynes has now been given a new reindeer. Finally, Keynes, his descriptions of the economic situation and analyses – analyses that many people are studying and discussing today. I think that one should have a slightly greater humility than just having some cheap points related to what has reference to Keynes. What's the core of what I'm saying is that it's not about ordering someone to do it. It is social organisation, where the challenge in Norway will be to get longer value chains on our natural resources, with a technology that is modern and environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e586	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e589	As a transition from the previous speaker, it may be appropriate to recall that Keynes – who all believe has thought wisely – was a true social liberal who believed in the market. But as a true social liberal, he felt that the market had to function within clearly defined frameworks. This way, I think a lot of people can benefit from re-reading Keynes. I want to start with some general considerations about the crisis situation we're in, because I think it's still necessary to motivate us all to have the humility we need for the uncertainty we're facing. Here's news, here's new realities, where insight and skill are pushed out to an extent that we've barely seen before. That's why it's important to take it with you. Most of us who heard the Governor's speech last night, perhaps did the same reflection as me, that the Governor was also extremely careful to say something about even the near future – knowing that he could quickly be confronted with it. I think maybe more would do that. Nevertheless, it is quite dramatic when the governor says that this year we have to count on a decline in disposable income of 10 p.m. There's pretty big implications for quite a lot of people, to say it like this. Then I would like to say – when we deal with one of the well-known packages today, and it is a reasoning I have made many times in debates on crisis – that we must not become too many management optimists. A great deal of what is now happening is beyond the reach of any policy, and that is not to be avoided. Those who kind of want to present a reality in the future and who say that if you had just done it and that in politics, things could have been avoided, I don't think it's true. This might be a advice or a tip to the government, not because they think that the policy can solve all the problems, but they're going to be faced with quite strongly towards the election when bad news comes, that they could have done some grip at a time that could have prevented it. It's going to be pretty terrible times for a lot of people, especially for those who work in the export-oriented industry. Unfortunately, we can't get away with that, even if we can fix a lot and do a lot. In all my comments about the crisis in the autumn, I have chosen to be quite monotonous in putting the export industry in focus, because I think it has been necessary to focus on what is obviously the most affected. Many have, in a way, been concerned about rematching in all conceivable areas, and all of them are clear everywhere in society with their wish lists, whether it's good or bad times. But it is important to understand that this is above all a crisis in the export industry. In this context, my plan has never been anything but to commend the government fraction for improving the framework conditions of the export industry through the treatment in Stortinget. And what's done is significant -- it's a significant improvement in the situation. I have one reflection that I'm also concerned about, and it's – you might say – social solidarity, in a situation where we have a crisis like the one we now have. It's a sort of crisis paradox that most of us will actually have a better year in this crisis year than ever. Very many people have safe, fixed incomes from government, interest rates have led to a significant improvement in purchasing power, and it is perhaps the case that the crisis packages that are now being adopted make the job even more interesting by increasing the number of tasks involved. On the one hand, many of us get some crisis signals in the direction that this is good for us, while many of us get unemployed and get into a desperate situation. It calls for solidarity to work well in society. Our most important apparatus for exercising solidarity is Nav – our entire safety net to take care of those who end up on the street. That's why it's so important in such a situation, when so many are in a way rewarded with good times in times of crisis, that the system to take care of those on the outside works very well. We still have to be in the same boat in this country. So a little bit about that debate has also gone on – the one about proceeds. It is clear that, of course, the chairman of the committee is quite right: it is the cash principle that a driver pursues, and purely tax deferral takes into account the revenue considerations in the manner mentioned. But I don't think the government side is going to use too much force to make an too big a point out of this, because it's de facto a purely tax deferral, and the right thing to do in such a context would have been to make an interest rate consideration of the income loss that public authorities have. It's actually a loan that companies are making here, and the money is coming back. My view is that this is perfectly sound, because in this way we can help companies to get better and better at taking care of their people, and that one thus avoids getting as much unemployment as we would otherwise have. In the position we are discussing today, the Left promotes a number of proposals – either alone or together with other parties, mainly the Right and Christian People's Party. It is also natural, given that these parties gave the Government a joint input in advance, and there are proposals and measures specifically aimed at an export-oriented and competitive industry. These measures will be a necessary complement to the measures promoted by the Government and for which it is currently widely supported by the Grand Duchy. The left therefore proposes a targeted package tailored to export-oriented enterprises, which have experienced major demand failure. We would like, among other things: improving the rules on permitting, so that employees can more effectively switch between daily allowances and work — in other words, solidarity in enterprises. Today, the requirement is that you have to be at least 50 pst. Permitted to receive a daily allowance. The consequence of this is that many enterprises leave employees completely out. For all parties — employees, the enterprise and society — it is better to facilitate the introduction of businesses, for example: four days a week and that the country pays for the fifth, if appropriate to the holding. This will also ensure greater competence over time, rather than leaving parts of the workforce at least half of the time. I have recorded that the government parties have encouraged the government to look at this forward to the revised national budget, and I am reading a little between the lines that this proposal would like the government parties to support – if they had been allowed. Maybe they'll get it next time. Another important thing is that we want to set off 100 million. kr for additional business-internal training measures. In this way, many companies can retain employees at work and allow them to acquire new knowledge rather than to leave them out. The left supports, for the rest of the government parties, the additional proposal to extend the number of weeks of leave to 52 weeks. The Left proposes to set up its own investment company, Climate Change, which will be able to invest specifically in the type of enterprise we need in the future, the environmentally friendly technology companies, and in the conversion of enterprises in a more environmentally friendly way. The left proposes, in the first instance, that the company be allocated an investment capital of 500 million. NOK, and provide that private investors can enter with an equivalent portion. This will be a suitable instrument for investing in climate-friendly technology, and for climate entrepreneurs, who are now struggling with funding. These are businesses that neither fall under the Enova arrangements nor benefit from the share capital injection to Argentum. In addition, we propose a number of targeted tax reliefs that will benefit Norwegian businesses and competitive export industries and bankrupt industries. We propose, among other things: increased depreciation rates for machines up to 25 p.m., half the employer’s fee for apprentices, strengthening the tax FUNN scheme, removing the ceiling of the Government’s tax credit scheme proposal and reversal of the impairment of the property and inheritance tax, for which the Government was given a majority in the current year’s budget. The Left also proposes deferred payment of 2008 corporate tax until 1 August 2009 in order to strengthen business liquidity. Overall, these are fast-acting instruments that hit where the pain is now greatest. The left also proposes strengthening the basic funding of universities and colleges and extending the loan facility to upgrade school buildings by DKK 2 billion. A number of the government's proposals, adopted today with broad support in this Chamber, are identical to the 2009 alternative government budget of the Left, i.e. proposals that the Government and government parties opposed two months ago. This applies, for example: proposals to strengthen the TaxFUNN scheme, proposals for increased focus on nutrition research and climate research, and proposals for more nutrition PhDs and scholarships. There are proposals for more civilian positions in the police, for increased deployment on the railways, for racial protection and on multiple routes and bicycles, and for increased involvement in cultural memory protection. Overall, the Left had a strengthening of these areas of approximately DKK 2 billion compared to the Government's, and the Government's, 2009 budget. I therefore draw the conclusion that the Left's alternative state budget was better suited to meet the crisis than the budget provided for by the government parties was. But luckily, it's better late than never. And we would like to welcome the Government with all these good proposals that are being adopted today. With this, I take up the Left's proposal in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e625	The representative Lars Sponheim has drawn up the proposals he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e630	The representative Sponheim said that the unemployed are in a desperate situation, and that we must have a good system for those outside. Of that, I conclude that the daily allowance scheme is important to the Left, and that the Left sees it as an important part of the system for the unemployed, or they leave. Then I have two questions for the representative Sponheim. First, why is it that the left is not involved in reducing the pay obligation for employers by leave to five days? That's the first one. The second question is: is the Left really a bit happy that the current government has long since corrected the cuts made by the previous government in the day-to-day pay system, reduced the number of day-to-days from five to three, and reinstated the right to earn holiday pay for the unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e639	Let me first say, about Left and Day Money: if there's something that's a continuous thread in the entire long and proud history of the Left, it's the commitment of those who need social solidarity. I guess there's nothing else that's more typical for the whole history of the Left than that – and that could have been said a lot about it. In this context, we also have a significant commitment to it in the position that exists today. We have chosen to prioritize the resources in this field, among others. within the permation scheme, in a completely different way – we make it possible to share the burden of not meeting each day at the workplace – than the government has proposed. That is why we have chosen to give priority to those measures. We think it's much better that everyone is a little permissive and gets a lot at their place of work, than what the government says, that those who have to be permitted must be a lot away from work. That has been our priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e644	I would like to thank the leader of the Left for presenting solidarity as a key factor in the work we are doing here. I would like to thank the Left for supporting the Government's package of measures. In addition to the measures we are taking, the Left proposes a wide range of measures beyond this without justifying everything in relation to the economic situation, and without everything being related to the main priorities of the Left in terms of the export industry, as Sponheim just explained. In my opinion, some of these measures are less targeted. I see it as a breach of the previous line of economic policy of the Left. Is there an outstretched hand to the Progress Party when the Left here comes with such large appropriations in addition, or has you not been able to do any unpopular cuts to get better space for the main things within the same framework?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e653	I thank you for the rose. I try to be honest about what I mean, also on this pulpit and on most occasions. I think the government is doing a lot of good in this context and also in other contexts, but I'm critical where I'm dissatisfied with the Government. At one point, the government, in my opinion, is too poor, and it is in business and business policy, in this context also targeted at the export industry. It had needed some long-term signals and better framework conditions today, and it's not the government or government parties to give. So to priorities: The left here does more than the government – I think the committee leader had calculated it to about 26 billion kroner in increased expansiveness through what is adopted today – is just about better framework conditions for these businesses and the export industry. I am absolutely sure that this is not going to push the interest rate, or contribute to bad things. In that case, there would have been almost good news, because then unemployment had not become as great as one could fear. But there is unfortunately room in the Norwegian economy to spend so much money.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e660	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e663	This debate has been marked by a calm and factual tone so far, and I will try to keep to the tradition and tone of the Storting itself. The background to the package of measures we have presented, which came on 26 January, is that at the bottom we have an expansive state budget for 2009, and at the top of it we have now proposed further measures. We can see from the statement that there is broad agreement on many of the proposals on the expenditure side. On the one hand, there has been a dialogue between the parties before the proposal was presented, and on the other hand, when we look around and are in common search for sensible projects that can be carried out by vacant construction workers, engineers and architects, we see much of the same thing: it is about upgrading state and municipal buildings, it is about making a significantly better effort in relation to energy saving, waterborne heat and new renewable energy, and it is about investing in more environmentally friendly transport and upgrading and maintaining the investments made in the road sector already, because there are still many shortcomings. So when we look around, looking for the tasks that we know have been neglected, and where it's possible to do things that are socio-economically important, for the future, we see a lot of the same thing. I am pleased that there is considerable agreement on that. What I am also pleased about is that when I look around and look at what has been done by extra measures in other countries, I see that the Norwegian package is among the greenest in the world. We know that we cannot now have a narrow-sighted focus on getting out of the financial crisis. We know that we need to have a long-term focus on getting out of it in such a way that it also combats the big crisis, which is not going to cross over in a short time, namely how we're going to be able to get enough action and change the policy enough to stick to the two-degree goal, and not get a further warming of the world beyond that. There's always things you can reach for, but when we look at our proposals, we're at the forefront of the world context when it comes to thinking green to fight the effects of the financial crisis. I am very pleased that the municipalities send out signals that they are satisfied. They are satisfied that the measures we have taken in relation to the municipal sector are unbureaucratic. There are provisions for maintenance. They're 100 pst. is funded. They're sending a bill in retrospect. It's like this that inspires a municipal everyday life, because there's a lot of applications and forms back and forth. Now we've done it as unbureaucratic as we can. I know that the effort that we've been invited to, and that we've requested, is now going on all over the country. That's everything from tiled girls – I assume it's allowed to say – or school toilets, if I'm going to use a little more parliamentary expression, to larger expansion projects. So that's reasonable and wise. So we have the most powerful means in Europe to combat unemployment. It's in the sum of our state budget and the package of measures. We have Europe's lowest unemployment rate, and we have the ambition that it will still be among the lowest. We have opportunities in fiscal policy to put in place measures that are much stronger. We have more muscles than most other countries around us. We don't have to worry about the state's deficit becoming so big that it can affect the future economy of the country. We're in the opposite situation. When our growth impulse in this overall for 2009 is now not just 2.3 pst., which we added up to in the action package, but through treatment has been 2.4 pst., there is a very strong diet. So far, EU countries have adopted 1.1 pst. and has the objective of 1.5 pst. What is there disagreement between the opposition and the position when we read the attitude is the emphasis on tax proposals in the crisis package. What surprises me the most is not that there is disagreement in this area, but that the opposition only takes its tax proposals and puts them at the top of our package of measures. That's what's happening very much. We can discuss what kind of effect this has, that it's about the periodication of taxes, for example. this ceiling on the reversal of deficits, but it has a significant impact on the economy in the current year, 2009, which is significant. The right, left and Christian People's Party has an increase in relation to our actions, which basically, when we calculate the impact of this, means that they add between 8 and 10 billion dollars at the top of these 27 billion dollars. It surprises me, because I find no reason anywhere for why it is right to run so much more expansive than what the government initially has put up with. Now, if we convert the effect of the bourgeois proposals, except for the Advance Party, we are close up to 3 pst. in growth momentum in the budget, and that's far beyond what anyone else thinks. It surprises me. I see why it happens, because it's far more comfortable to put new suggestions on top of what's there than to go in and cut into something you're really for. But what is pleasant is not necessarily the guiding principle for the fight against crisis. Four important changes have been made to the proposals of the Government Parties. The rate of return on losses has increased from 5 million. NOK 20 million. kr. This means that several companies have the opportunity to make full use of it. There's been a wish about it, not just from the opposition, but from many outside the Storting, and we think it was right to stretch on a system that initially hits the economic situation we're in now, well. Now it hits even better. Then we've added a start write of 10 pst. on machines in 2009 – it is important to underline 2009, for this we have not intended to continue. It is because all the actors out there now need to understand that they get a huge advantage by launching that kind of investment for 2009. If there are any in the opposition, for example: Who wants to send out signals other than that, there's actually another debate. It's a structural debate. What we want now is to say to those who are on good investment projects that are about replacing machines in balancing group d: Come on, do it now! You'll get a discount in 2009. We will also have important projects brought forward. Then we've made some changes to the permitting rules. We say we work to make further improvements and come back to Stortinget with it. These are rolling lay-offs, but then there are some details about the arrangement that we need to look at. And then we have introduced new guarantees for first-hand sales for fish. This was done while the Stortinget dealt with this package of measures, because we see that there are significant problems in fisheries in getting the landings on the catches. We have proposed a very expansive arrangement for 2009. But no one in this room has given the impression that we can solve all the problems associated with a financial crisis. We can propose measures. I was in Iceland on Friday, and there you are in the opposite situation of what you have in Norway. We have opportunities that almost no other country has to combat the impact of this financial crisis, but we cannot afford to get out of what is the main problem for many in business, namely that demand is falling. They get sold less, and they get a much lower price for their goods than before. But we are on the verge of the most expansive policy in Europe, based on what we have. Then we have presented new measures. This is one grip in a number of many. We have presented many people who are concerned with the credit situation. I am very pleased that Stortinget has said that there is a quick return to a position on these instruments, because it is of great importance to the companies that are now struggling to obtain credit and funding for profitable projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e693	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e696	All reportedly agree that all the package of measures introduced worldwide should not contribute to protectionism, and it also underlined the Minister of Foreign Affairs when he was here in the Chamber on Tuesday. He owed him, among other things. on the Buy American Act in the United States, which he found very unfortunate. When it became clear that the investment company Argentum would receive NOK 2 billion and that they also invested in foreign companies, Minister of Industry Brustad said that it was very unfortunate and not in line with the intentions of the Government – i.e. some kind of Invest in Norway Act thinking. Red-green politicians have argued that tax relief for individuals is unfortunate, because it also leads to the purchase of imported goods, and it does not have the effect you want. Does the Council agree that these are unfortunate opinions and that Norway must also contribute to the non-introduction of new protectionism?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e706	In general, I fully agree with that. But what we now see is that countries by country need to implement national measures to prevent an international crisis. Well, then, I guess it's not so nice if not all countries, for example. in the case of proposals relating to the banking and credit situation, our actions may be used. Therefore, they are specifically designed to provide better financing for their own businesses and banks. With regard to the foreign banks active in Norway, we also see that they are increasingly withdrawing, because they have been targeted. Let's take Focus Bank, which is Danske Bank. Danske Bank has received measures aimed primarily at the Danish market. The Handelsbanken is a Swedish bank, and they have received measures aimed primarily at the Swedish market. And it is no wonder that we are developing our actions in this area primarily towards the Norwegian market. I don't see this as protectionism. I see that as using national measures, because the sum of these national measures means combating an international crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e715	The Minister of Finance has to pay tribute to her guarding the Treasury, but it can't be serious when she insinuates that some extra tax billions to companies in today's situation would contribute to something that is totally under pressure in the economy. I would like to have a discussion with the Minister of Finance about it, but I prefer to interpret it there, that she will take care of the state's finances, and that it is not the pressure of the economy she is anxious for. The central bank manager showed yesterday that small, medium-sized and large enterprises have lost competitiveness under the red-green government. In combination with tax incentives, it helps many companies face the crisis we are now entering, with an extra heavy backpack. The government has opted for a tax model in which companies with deficits are rescued. What is the reason why the Government will not consider the proposals of the Right and the other bourgeois parties that the companies that went well in 2008 should keep their profits in the difficult year we are now entering?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e724	I have allowed myself to point out that I think it is alarming that the Right should create a package with the starting point they had before the government budget was presented, where they were very afraid of an expansive budget. So luckily we suggested it anyway. When you come with a package of measures – which is the most offensive way to combat unemployment across Europe – and the Right wants a few extra dollars to tax, you only add $8 billion to the top of the 27 billion that are already there, without any further justification. I am surprised that, because in most previous debates, the Right has shown a willingness to give priority and has also been careful to justify the overall macroeconomic considerations. Here’s a – what to say – concern that has been taken when the Right leaves to fund its proposals. I believe that the proposals from the Right – when we look at them more closely – are known, old Right policy, and in particular the distribution profile should be concerned Right in these times of crisis where distribution is so incredibly important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e731	There will always be a round as to what level you should go on to meet this crisis, and I record that the government is always holding on to what it has done is the only right thing. I guess that's a nice summary of how the government looks at it. But then it is that the government parties themselves, a few days after the government has presented their package of measures, spend both NOK 1 and 2 billion on what the government proposed. It can't be that when the opposition makes a well-founded proposal, it's “deficient” – while when the position comes with a supplement, what is it really? I would like to ask the Minister of Finance how will she characterize the 1-2 billions that the position suddenly puts on the table?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e738	I agree that we have not set a grid line and said that every krone spent more than 27 billion kroner is completely irresponsible in this situation, and that is not my point either. We have justified why we believe that a growth impulse of the 2009 budget of 2.3 pst. is offensive. It's more offensive than anything we see around us, but we've justified why we landed there. The proposals that have been made during the deliberation process mean that we go from 2.3 to 2.4 pst., while the opposition is up to 3 pst., without any further justification. I think that's a little funny. In the case of the nutrient profile, it is very clear. Almost everything in this budget is dedicated to private business. But for the companies that have profits, and especially the large enterprises, the proposals we are now making to set up the State Financial Fund and the State Bond Fund are much more important. And that's what we've been asking for first and foremost as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e745	The debate has gone a long way on the amount of liquidity loan provided by the State to companies through deferred tax. Everyone is in favour of it, but it's more about the size of it and the ability to strengthen liquidity over a difficult period of time. Now we hear news from different companies, where the state is also a significant owner, that they choose to significantly reduce the yield for the current year based on the last year's accounts, maybe eliminate it altogether, as we heard from DnB NOR recently. It also works a little like a liquidity loan, where the State actually leaves its equity standing in the companies, but has the full opportunity to withdraw it at a later date. I believe that when we come to the revision, it will be a problem for the Minister of Finance that there will be less profit than what is budgeted. Is there any need for the Minister of Finance to fully finance other revenue or cut at the hand of the State, or should this be able to be allocated to the enterprises without affecting the economy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e752	As the representative of Sponheim has probably noticed, we have adjusted the estimates of benefits in the action package as well. That's because the state is a partner in many companies. There are the boards that decide what is going to be dividends for 2009. We expect more people to do as DnB NOR has announced that they will do, namely not pay or pay a significantly lower dividend for 2008, to pay in 2009, because they want to strengthen the company's equity. Then there's a question about the companies in which the state is helian. There are relatively few companies and with largely different reasons. It's Posten, Statkraft, etc. There's a lot of other reasons, and there could also be other issues involved. But we do, of course, assessments of these things. So far, we've taken into account that many companies, even where the state is heavily owned, limit their profits for 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e759	The Minister of Finance was concerned that the permit rules should be reviewed further, and that one would allow for rolling permitting. That's good. But there are also other limitations when it comes to the permissive regimes today, which have come up with some requests, and it is the limitation that one is pressured to permit the individual employee in at least 50 pst. of time. So it's not possible, for example. to permit for 20 pst. or 40 pst., as some enterprises have requested, that one shut down the factory one day a week, e.g. Friday. It may be what pays best for the factory, and it will also be the least burden on the individual worker that one goes down from five days of work week to four days of work week. Is this also something the Minister of Finance wants to assess, or is this something that is initially rejected?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e766	The government thinks of the following around some companies that are now in a permitting situation, and that is that many of them have gone on a crisis that we have to expect is temporary. It's businesses that we have to count on have viability when the economic cycle comes up again. Therefore, it is a theme to improve the permitting mechanisms, which would not have been equally topical in a high economic cycle, because it is necessary and important for that company to keep skilled labour and to find schemes to allocate the work that may be to more people. The themes now addressed by the representative, such as: This percentage, is one of the conditions that we evaluate in such a context.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e771	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e774	The Political Spokesman of the Progress Party, Ulf Leirstein, felt it was a pity that it was so short of this period. Even there, I disagree with the representative, but if someone interprets it, it must mean that he still wants this government to continue. I will promise the representative, Leirstein, that if that is the case, we will have a common case against the 2009 elections. The representative, Leirstein, also said that everyone agreed on the package of measures, and he was pleased about it. I want to say that all the economists I've heard agree that the reason Norway is in such a good situation as we're in now financially is that we've managed to hold back when we've had good times. Even I could be a little happier if it had been so that the Progress Party had understood that. But they won't. What they want is to go out in the media, criticise and add additions. I note that the representative and the Progress Party are pleased with the packages of measures that have come. Because there have been several packages. The party of progress and the representative of Leirstein are happy. I cannot say the same about the Sanner and Right representatives, but it may be that they have greater government ambitions than the Advance Party. When the representative Sanner says that the most secure have not understood the crisis, one must regret that it seems that the representative Sanner has not understood the crisis. The right has gone into the trap of the Progress Party. The Christian People's Party and the Left have that too. So they're not related to the macroeconomic figures and they don't want to go into that discussion. I would also like to remind you that in the last period, although it seems political for a long time, with twice as high unemployment, the measures, from the parties that are now in opposition, were, in relation to the situation of cutting labour market measures, cutting the municipal economy, raging the labour-environment law, saying that we should not have Norwegian seafarers, and putting down the breweries in Norway. It was the measures they brought back then. The Norwegian people can be happy that we have a government that takes the situation more seriously. Nevertheless, it actually seems that the Right claims that they have always been right. We know better. We remember the bankruptcy after the Japs, the strange bankruptcy. We remember the empty toolbox. We even remember the perfumed melting plant in Tyssedal, a billion-dollar sluice for the state. Yes, if the Right had always been right, we would have actually been without king and in union with Sweden still. [[Laughter]] So a comment to the representative Sponheim, who is so concerned about the export industry. He was not busy until Christmas. When we dealt with the budget before Christmas, he would impose quota purchases on all export industries. This would mean that regardless of the crisis, Sponheim could have escaped thinking about the export industry. Because even though the market had been on top, we had not had a process industry in Norway with Sponheim's policy. I am very pleased that he has at least begun to think in that direction, although I do not believe that he is going to be a good man for business. Because there's one difference between Lars Sponheim and Keynes, and that's that Keynes said one should have clearly defined frameworks. Well, at least one can't say about a game that turns 180 degrees from one month to the other. Everyone should be pleased with the package of measures that has come to date and those that have arrived in the past. We're doing something about it, and I'm happy about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e792	The financial crisis has given Norway new challenges compared to those we faced recently. The major challenge, of course, is that the insecurity created also leads to a greater reduction in private demand than may be necessary. This is why it is important that one comes with a package of measures, and when it comes to the package being dealt with here today, it is all the more so. What we're talking about is whether you should have put a little bit more on the tax haven than what is proposed. The point of doing that is that one would have made the households better able to keep up their purchasing power, and one would have made the companies more robust. The proposals that are being put forward are a broad deal. And the improvement made by the plurality of the Financial Committee is also a step in the right direction. That's one of them. the recoverable annual deficit ceiling from 5 million. NOK 20 million. kr. Still, there's a roof that makes the big businesses, which might have at least as much use and pleasure from this, not benefit from it to a great extent. This rule also indicated that one had surplus for the previous year. For example, entrepreneurs who have not started properly and who have just started a production and are expecting a surplus both in 2008 and 2009 may not get these surpluses because the financial crisis is destroying it. That's why we think that kind of improvements should have been done, so that everyone could make use of them, and that one also had removed this 20-million ceiling. Complete. Incremental depreciation is positive. I think it's a little limited how many will benefit from it, as this applies temporarily. If one had raised this permanently, there would have been several people who, out of custody, would have wanted to invest, and thus one would have gained activity in society. We have proposed a comprehensive tax cut against people most and also tax cut for business. When it's for most people, we have a total tax cut of $10 billion. It's very socially arranged, as usual, from the Progress Party. It's the case that a paychecker who charges NOK 300000 gets a tax bill of NOK 3542, and a paycheck who pays NOK 500,000 also gets a tax bill of NOK 3542. So you're going to get the same rate regardless of whether you're going to have 300,000 dollars, 500,000 dollars or more. We believe that it is important to ensure that private households get a more robust economy and thus can also sustain their demand, despite the fact that one might find out that it makes sense to save a little more than what one has done in recent years. We also propose reducing the employer’s pay for seniors and removing the employer’s fee for apprentices. That's what we think makes sense in the situation we're in, because it's often the youngest and the oldest that are most exposed to being laid off. Therefore, it is important that we stimulate that it is more profitable to have them added. As has been said before, we want to remove the tax tightening proposed by the Government towards businesses when it comes to inheritance taxes and property taxes, and we want to reverse the tightening of individuals. We think that makes sense, especially in the situation we're in now, that we get a reversal of that. There is no time for additional burdens on business. The time has come to reduce the burden on businesses and individuals in terms of taxes and taxes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e807	There is a great deal of agreement on what the Government proposes in the package of measures. That's not the problem with this, but that's what's not being proposed. Too many small and medium-sized enterprises in this country are of little importance, and it is difficult to find them. He was the owner of companies with profits in 2008 and not belonging to construction, they did not get much more out of the budget for 2009 and this package of measures than tax increases. That means that it's the same medicine that they've been given in the last three and a half years, and that means that all of these businesses -- very many of them at least -- are getting less rusted up to face the downtimes that are now coming. And this is the foundation of the Norwegian economy. There are over 100,000 enterprises combined. There's a million people working there, and they just fall out a little bit -- not just a little bit, but completely out of the discussion that's going on right now. They need higher demand. It cannot be decided by the Storting. But they need more liquidity. The Storting can do something about that. They need to maintain their competence. And we can do something about that. But what they need most — and that's more on the psychological side — is an understanding that someone cares about what they're doing. When you look at the 2009 budget and the package of measures together, it is amazing that you do not now reverse the tax increases that were added to the budget last autumn. Even you can't do that. We want to reverse the tax increases in our option. We are also proposing to increase the ceiling on deficit recovery, and we are trying to point forward with other measures. We are proposing a business cyclical fund, which the government has also mentioned, but has not found to go into. It opens up to do something with the companies that are doing well, not only those who have gone poorly in 2008, who have actually been a top year in Norwegian business. And we are proposing a postponement of the payment of corporate tax for 2008. It would build a bridge to the business cycle fund of this company, which could then shift tax collection and create a significant increase in the liquidity of the companies. Along these lines, we have also proposed to look at reductions in the employer’s contribution. We have a concrete proposal to remove the employer’s fee for apprentices. We ask that both shipping credits – i.e. that they can be pushed on, because this would mean a significant flow of liquidity – and also oil taxation, where changes can be made to increase the pace of action. Then I want to link a comment to this with the ceiling rule for the reversal of the deficit. The chairman of the committee spent some time talking about removing the roof, and the negative results this gets. But it was also said in the proposition that when you actually proposed $5 million. kr, there were problems with increasing further. Now I understand that there is no problem in raising up to 20 million. kr. Of course, there'll always be demarcation issues here, there'll be adjustments, but I think in the times we're up to, you should be able to live with it if it can help the businesses in a good way. Whether something is tax revenue or interest rate effects -- of course, we're going to deal with the right ways to account for it, but the impact in the economy is different, and there's little understanding of it in the business world about just this with how to book it. Then I hear the Minister of Finance is worried that the Right stimulates Norwegian business too much. That's what I think it might be worth taking into the months and the year ahead. There might be a statement that there might probably be reason to discuss by new cross paths.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e818	We are now engaged in a historic fight against unemployment and the effects of the global economic crisis. We are facing the most serious economic downturn in the world economy since 1945. The crisis is taking place in all countries and on all continents. Every day businesses close the doors. Every day new people go into unemployment, and every day new families are hit. It started out as a banking crisis in the United States. It has evolved into a global economic downturn, with great effects on very many. Norway has already been hit. Land borders are not a protection against crises like this. The problems in the American economy are also our problems. When the crisis strikes the countries with which we deal the most, Norwegian jobs, Norwegian workers, are hit. That's why we get permits and cancellations. The government has promoted the most comprehensive measures against unemployment of more than 30 years. The measures are designed in close dialogue with those directly affected by the crisis. We've met company managers and employees all over the country. We've listened to the trade movement and business organisations, and we've been advised by the top professional economics expert. I would also like to thank the opposition in Stortinget for recording and contributing. We have taken into account their views on the design of the measures. We have continued the dialogue even after the package of measures was presented on 26 January. The party groups in Stortinget have also done the same. I am therefore pleased that we can today adopt a package that has been further reinforced in relation to the package that the Government proposed. Strong measures have become even stronger. Important schemes have become even wider, or to say so freely after Jon Lilletun: a good package of measures has become even better. In the past six months, I have traveled a lot and met many people who notice the problems directly on the body. On Wednesday I was in Telemark and Buskerud. In Whiteningfoss, I met management and employees at Kongsberg Automotive. They wanted state aid to build up new competences and to transform themselves through the crisis. Yesterday Innovation granted Norway 145 million. kr in loans to the company. The funds shall be used to develop better products and new technologies. In this way, Kongsberg Automotive is transforming itself into new markets and a new era. We have over the last few days heard and read that the unemployed do not get the help they need and are entitled to at Nav. It's totally unacceptable. The government has therefore decided to present a separate case to the Stortinget in March with a full review of the Nav situation. We will then explain both the measures implemented and the need for new measures and strategies. The Nav budget will also be reviewed to ensure that the agency is able to carry out the tasks that are now so important that a thing can be done in the best possible way. Nav is important in the fight against unemployment, but also to assist those affected by unemployment. What a whole world has learned from this financial crisis is that the market cannot control, it must be governed. The market cannot be left to itself. It must be regulated and controlled. In Norway, we have done just that. In the autumn of 2005, there were over 100 000 unemployed in Norway. The availability was halved from 2005 to 2008. It's now helping us. Now the unemployment rate is increasing again. We are hit because the global setback is so powerful. That's why we're now mobilizing all the resources to limit the impact. That's why we mobilize to create new jobs for those who become unemployed. I can assure you that the Government will come back with proposals for new measures if the situation so requires. We are following developments day by day. The situation will require a lot of us. We are ready to meet it with the seriousness and effort it requires.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e841	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e844	I registered that the Prime Minister announced that they now want a review in areas related to Nav. It is clear that there has been a very difficult situation, with a lot of people who are now unemployed. There are major challenges to Nav not receiving treatment for applications that are normally dealt with in a relatively short period of time. This puts many people in a very difficult situation. In particular, we have been made aware that there are now major challenges in Oslo, Akershus, Hordaland and Eastfold, which are the four states that have been brought forward. I'm glad you're going to come back to this, and you're working on it, but it doesn't help those who are waiting right now. We know, for example. that many of the private employment agencies now want to cut down. You had a resource here, and you could hire some staff to these Nav offices, so you could get an increase in the number that could process applications and get them away. Is the Prime Minister in favour of looking at these kinds of ways of relieving Nav in a difficult situation and thus helping very many people who are now unemployed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e851	We will come back with a review and assessment of the measures we think are necessary. We use private when, for example, on the implementation of some labour market measures. How we're going to align the measures, and what we're going to do, is just what we're going to spend a few days now, and then present an assessment of it in March. Otherwise, the situation is exactly what the representative points out. It's really in four counties we labor, and especially in two. It's been in Hordaland, and it's in Oslo. But in Hordaland there is now extra effort put in, and that means that the queues there are halved. That's good results, and they're expected in a short time to achieve the goal of that 80 pst. of all applications for leave shall be examined within three weeks. So developments in Hordaland show that extra effort benefits, that we can get good results, and that we can solve the problems Nav experiences in some places.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e858	The Prime Minister said he had been out a lot and traveled. I think there are several politicians who have done that. And when I'm traveling, I meet a lot of desperate leaders in small and medium-sized companies, companies that don't feel that what's in the packages presented by the government is giving them some help, but that, on the contrary, is quite provoked at a time when there's Sunday press conference after Sunday press conference with package distribution, they feel that they're getting a bigger bill. I meet hotel owners in District Norway who assess whether they need to have winter closures, and people who wonder what to sell of production equipment in order to pay the granny's property tax. 350,000 owners in Norwegian enterprises are now paying more taxes on wealth because of the government's symbolic policy. Does the Prime Minister realize that it is time to reverse the restrictions on wealth taxes, if he really wants to do something about the crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e865	It is not the property tax that threatens Norwegian jobs. It is the failure of international markets that threatens Norwegian jobs. And then we take significant action with a good social profile to ensure as many jobs as possible and create new ones to replace those who fall away, so that the unemployed go free as soon as possible. We also implement significant measures for small and medium-sized enterprises. They all have great pleasure in lower interest rates. They're all very happy that we're now getting more demand out in the economy. Small joiner companies, small construction companies, are enjoying the new construction projects. Many of them enjoy improvement in the rules of leave, and those who wear the most have the joy of the targeted tax measures we take, which are significantly better than reducing the taxes on wealth, as the Right wants. Otherwise, I think that with the winter fence certainly is a problem somewhere, but precisely the ski centres are doing very well. So it's an expression that we now have some kind of two-part economy. Part of the economy is struggling, while other parts of the economy are doing well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e872	There's a lot from Jon Lilletun there's reason to quote. I am not quite sure whether the dialogue we have had in Stortinget after the package of measures was presented goes under the same characteristics, all the time when the opposition received the proposals from the majority presented through a press conference. I'm a little uncertain about whether that label is quite striking. But I really want to get into a slightly different topic. In his year-end yesterday, the governor pointed to the need for a change in housing tax, and indicated that it also had something to do with, in his opinion, the situation on different markets. My question to the Prime Minister is, what is his reaction to the statements made by the Governor in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e879	First, a little bit about the dialogue and the representative commented on it. We put great emphasis on the meetings we had with the opposition parties, one before Christmas and one after Christmas, and we put great emphasis on the written recordings we got from the opposition parties. If you go through our proposals, you see it's a huge coincidence. There are many of the proposals raised by the opposition, which we have also included in our proposals. I notice with interest that the opposition was gathered in demands for us, but not collected in their alternatives. There's a good part cracking, so it's of course different how much the different parts have been permeated. As far as housing taxation is concerned, it is an old debate. We've done what we've done in our budgets with regard to property taxes, but we don't have any other plans. We will not help to re-open the debate on the tax advantage of housing. It is established by decisions taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e888	Let me first confirm and say that I feel on behalf of the Left that we have been given the opportunity to make a good contribution to the government's work, and we see a lot of it again. I also feel that the arguments from both the opposition and the hearings for the importance of strengthening the companies have been heard by the government fraction. I want to ask you something that surprises me a little. The Prime Minister has heard today's debate, where there has been a rather unilateral pressure from the government parties on the opposition to stimulate the demand effect of the budget more than the government, and perhaps too much. Even the finance minister put a lot of emphasis on it. I sat for a while with the belief that at least the government has now completely shut down the possibility of strengthening the budget with stronger demand signals throughout the year. But then the Prime Minister says that it is time to come back with new measures if the situation requires it. Does this mean that the Head of Government does not exclude that the Government may further strengthen the budget with increased expansion over the year?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e901	As the government has expressed several times – both the finance minister, me and others – we are following developments on an ongoing basis and implementing the measures we think are necessary, with the arrangements and dosages and at the time when we think is right. Just because the economic crisis we are now seeing internationally is so strong and there will be so much uncertainty about how, for example, development. go in American economy, German economy, international economy in general, we have to be ready to act if the situation requires it. We have presented the measures we now believe are the right ones, and then we have to assess. One reason, of course, is the revision of the national budget, where we will assess the situation. We have to take many things into account. Not least, we are committed to setting up measures so that the most important instrument and what works fastest and strongest, namely interest rates, are allowed to work. That's why we've been busy making budget lines that allow for a significant fall in interest rates. We will also focus on this in the future this year because it hits competitive businesses and households. Low interest rates are an important tool for the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e908	The Prime Minister said in his speech that a sound market economy must have a good regulatory system, and I agree with that. Like everyone else, we need to have a proper regulatory framework and have someone to ensure compliance. The Prime Minister also said that we have had it in Norway, perhaps unlike other countries, which he has strongly criticized. When we have such a good regulation system for our banks, why is it necessary first with a bank package of NOK 350 billion, and now another one of NOK 100 billion? That's my first question. My second point is: does the Prime Minister agree with the Governor of the Central Bank, who yesterday made it clear that there are significant shortcomings in our regulatory system by the fact that the requirement for equity in relation to total lending was too clever and too weak? Does he agree with Gedrem also in the criticism that was addressed to the supervisory authorities, which has been too weak to ensure the soundness of Norwegian banks with regard to core capital in relation to lending?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e917	I think we have had good rules in Norway, but that doesn't mean we can't get even better. One reason we have had good rules in Norway is that we learned from the previous crisis when we had serious problems in Norwegian banks, at the beginning of the 1990s. Then we changed, adjusted and improved our rules. I am pretty sure that when we are through the round we are now in, we will also need changes, adjustments and improvements to the legislation. On the one hand, things are coming nationally, but on the other hand, things are coming internationally. Changes in international legislation are now being worked on. The main reason why we have to go in with extra money in the banks now is not that Norwegian banks have led an irresponsible lending policy or been irresponsible in any way. The main reason is that they are affected by the international financial crisis, that they can no longer finance themselves in the money market, or get as easy loans from the rest of the world as they received before. That is why we need to provide additional input of money through state channels. That is the main reason, not that there has been insufficient or poor banking activity in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e926	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e929	I think that's the first time I have such a noble place on a list of speakers. I'm not sure if it's an advantage or a disadvantage! Combating poverty is one of the most important policy areas in this ageing period. The fiscal policy of the previous period has been replaced by a strong commitment to targeted measures against poverty. Let me repeat briefly: The poverty rate has increased by nearly DKK 3 billion, the qualification programme is soon nationwide, social assistance rates have increased twice by 5 pst., housing support has expanded, we have had two historic social security settlements, the Youth Guarantee has been reintroduced, action plans against social dumping have been adopted, and labour market measures have remained at a historically high level. Some measures should mitigate the consequences of poverty, but most have one overall objective: to ensure that as many as possible can live from their own work. In the presentation of the 2009 government budget, there were some good results to be traced: 300,000 more at work than in 2003, the lowest unemployment rate of more than 20 years, 37 000 more in municipalities, 20 000 fewer in social assistance recipients. At the same time, we saw dark clouds in the horizon. By the end of December 2008, the unemployment rate had increased by 29 pst. in relation to the previous year. A month later, Nav reports an increase of 46 pst. compared to last year's January. So the situation changes from month to month. Today's action package is made up of many elements, but it has one common aim: to tackle poverty and work, whether we are talking about taxes, transportation, jobs for Nav, maintenance in state buildings or significant increases in transfers to municipalities. It's enough to look at my own municipality of residence, Drammen, to see that the measures work. ‘We play along with the state and spend money on measures that increase employment,’ says the councillor and already has the city board case ready. But the government doesn't draw a glossy picture. The message is open and honest: despite all the measures, some companies will end up. Someone's gonna lose their job. Some people will have difficulty getting a new job. Some people will experience permissions. In other words, the fight against poverty will require further action. Therefore, it is positive that a unanimous financial committee supports the proposal for 320 new posts for Nav – particularly pleasant with the Progress Party, which has proposed cuts in the Nav budget of several hundred million dollars, corresponding to over 500 posts, as well as cuts in social benefits. But jobs in Nav aren't enough. The budget must also have the means to do so. Therefore, labour market measures are further escalating by 650 million. SEK, or 6000 new places, to qualify for new jobs and to strengthen the skills of companies with conversion problems. In difficult times, it is also important to ensure that employers are not tempted to dump wages and undermine the working environment and safety. Most of them are tidy, but unfortunately not all. To this end, increased resources will be provided to the Labour Inspectorate. Finally, – I had almost said unfortunately – it is necessary to make changes to the legislation on day-to-day pay. In order to facilitate the situation for the enterprises, the country takes a greater share of the costs of leave during the pay obligation period and helps to maintain competence by extending the daily allowance period by leave to 52 weeks from 1 February 2009. At the same time, the majority therefore calls for rapid work to make the legislation even more flexible in the case of rolling platforms, including consideration of facilitating the requirement of 50 pst. reduction in working time. The latest polls indicate that people have confidence that the government is able to take us through the crisis. The pace and versatility of the measures being promoted help to consolidate that confidence. Today’s action package is tailored to the challenges they face so far, and a lot of money will be spent. As our Prime Minister still points out, the majority in this period have been moderate in good times. So we can spend money now. Those who now become unemployed or permitted can be happy that there has not been a populist and loose use of money that has been governing during this period, because then we would have been quite different from the worse rusted now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e952	Let me first express my disappointment at the representative Christoffersen, who once again repeats his lies that the Progress Party has reduced the benefits of the people's security services. It's completely wrong. I might have wished that we had progressed a step further and dealt with the truth, and the truth knew Christoffersen very well, but obviously did not say it, because it fits very poorly into her image. Then I want to see a few months back. When we dealt with the state budget, we operated with an unemployment rate of about 42 000. At the time, the government said that an expansive budget had been provided that would take account of any increase in unemployment. Today, the registered unemployment rate is 65,200, and we see that it's increasing much faster than we've anticipated in the past. Only in the last month has it increased by over 40 pst., and the estimates are that we will have a vacancy at the end of 2009 at a place between 120 000 and 140 000. It's a very serious situation. Therefore, of course, I am happy when the Government proposes changes to the permit regulations. But also here the government clearly shows that you don't have the ability to listen to people in companies or to their own trades. For what do we see? Well, what we're seeing is that the government is initially making a proposal that extends the period of leave to 42 weeks. When a collective trade union movement and an entire business life rattle with the shackles and demand exactly what the Progress Party has demanded, you do the last weekend before giving it the curve jump to extend it to 52 weeks. In addition, I am happy to reduce pay from ten to five days, but why worldwide should the Government wait until 1 April to implement this? Why can't we do this from 1 March? The problem is that very many people today are uncertain about their future, who are unsure whether they can keep their job, most likely will have gone on leave before the permit regulations come into force. A total construction industry, which I was so lucky to have a meeting with last weekend in the North and South Trøndelag, points out exactly the same lack of logic on the part of the Government regarding the time of implementation. An overall construction industry gives clear signals that more flexibility is needed. The industry also says that more flexibility is needed in the regulation of leave, and that one might have thought about the possibility of being able to work for four days and be on leave for one day – for example. the situation in installations, but also what we know about the Sykylven and the furniture company there. So I want to show you a little bit about the situation in Nav. The situation we have in Oslo is totally unsustainable, as most people have said. But why in the world aren't quick steps taken to solve it? They opted for trust in the Nav offices. The situation is such that you have been informed of a stoppage of employment. The temporary staff trying to exclude the application bases shall be removed. Only in an office like Nordstrand, with which I was in contact yesterday, have you been told that eight years' work is going away for the summer. At the same time, we see a large private sector with private employment agencies. I spoke yesterday with both Adecco, Manpower, Xtra personnel and Top Temp, who said that over a week they could have provided at least 50 qualified people who could have assisted Nav in the proceedings. Why not take advantage of the possibility when you are in a situation where Nav, together with Adecco, Manpower and Xtra personnel, have signed a cooperation agreement before Christmas, that you could actually use that kind of assistance to reduce the processing time? Why don't you use it? Why, instead, signal that you should not deal with the amount of work that is on the table, but rather put in place a stop to employment that makes you get into a worse situation? I see the council is shaking its head. But then it is clear that the Council of State is not up to date on the situation. That the situation is this way, among other things. Trust electors told me about as late as yesterday.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e965	The world is in a very difficult economic situation. How we get out of it, I don't think nobody today has the clear picture of. Around us, we are experiencing significant and major changes at the moment. There are dramatic situations in some countries – Iceland in our neighbourhood. But many countries in Asia and elsewhere also experience unrest. In fact, there are places where there are riots related to the economic situation. This is why it is of course great that we in Norway have both an economic backbone and a working and social life that can bear and relieve, and a room for action to do something when the crisis strikes. But for every individual who had to be affected by unemployment, hopelessness, the experience of community struggles and perhaps has to take care of the move and children who have to change school, and for other reasons, one should not minimize what this experience is also experienced in our country. Therefore, it is extremely important that we now provide for two things in Norway. One is to provide good security. The second is to provide more optimism. For some of the things that can happen in an economically difficult situation, all those who have to invest, those who create jobs, those who actually experience security for the job, those who are willing to invest, are being struck by pessimism. Then it gets so much worse for all those who depend on someone to create new jobs or continue the jobs. I believe that one of the biggest challenges of government policy is that it does not bring optimism to many of the small and medium-sized enterprises that are currently struggling. The sum of their policies is that they only use half of the toolbox, that they have a main focus on some tools, but that at the same time they tighten up too many of the small and medium-sized enterprises, because it is those who will contribute to more optimism, create new jobs and secure the jobs that are. Those who every day meet their employees in the canteen, who meet one in the sports team, who sees one over the freezer in the store, are those who feel co-responsibility, and who must have optimism to dry up investment and further develop. Therefore, I believe that some of the challenge is that the Government does not send signals to the many decision-makers that there is optimism, that there are brighter times to meet, and that the Government has understood the challenges for the many small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why it is sometimes wrong to tax jobs and impose property taxes, and sometimes it is a serious mistake. Now it's a huge mistake, because now it's taking away many of those who were supposed to contribute to initial investment and change and ensure job security, the bit of optimism that they needed. That's why many people feel provoked when they hear politicians from the red-green government talk about all the packages and how much they do, and then don't see in their everyday life that things actually happen. On the contrary, they feel that in 2009 they will pay significantly more in taxes, which they will have to derive from the profits of businesses, making jobs more uncertain, because the Government holds the ideology higher in claim than in creating optimism and security around the workplace. It's very good in the government's policy. Many are admitting that things they previously removed were actually good measures. I record that the red-green batches have now resumed the depreciation rates for machines, which they took out in the autumn of 2005. I record that they have now reversed the restrictions on the tax FUNN scheme and come back if not with everything, so with much, and say that these are important measures in the long term to contribute to investments in the future, and ensure that the world goes further, and that the jobs become safer. It's just so stupid that for three years we haven't been able to use the tools that are now good, because this government chose to remove them earlier. But I think it's fine when also red-green politicians see that good right-wing policy is actually the best thing to create security and development in our society. So it's very important that we now also see that in the situation we're in, we have to be open to new measures. A debate here in the hall that is about 2, 3, 4 or 5 billion more that is now the break point, becomes a little bit special. I am quite sure that when the revised national budget comes, some of the red-greens will have to eat some of their words from this debate, because it is not certain that this crisis is over. We might have to stimulate more. This is not where the crux of the Norwegian debate is going.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e980	The international financial crisis, as we all know, has also occurred in Norway. The crisis has several phases and has led to the need for several different measures by the Government. Crisis is linked to an international food crisis and an international climate crisis. All three of these crises we have to see in context. Today, it is primarily about how we guarantee people security in everyday life. How do we ensure that fewer workers are less likely to fumble into the way that they work? Nevertheless, it has been important for the government that the package we have presented should have a green angle. It will shift our society in a more renewable and environmentally friendly direction, while ensuring that we can do so by existing enterprises and facilitate the emergence of new ones. Because it's not to hide that people will experience losing their jobs. We see the home in Høyanger, in my neighborhood, and we see the other places in the country, that people get trouble. We then need to be aware of what action we are going to take to help people as individuals over that time and to ensure that local communities and businesses can relocate to a new era, whether it is for domestic timber farms or coastal export businesses. The package that has been produced is a good one. It's a green upgrade, and it's a lift to give work to people throughout the country. The two most important measures are the strengthening of municipalities with DKK 6.4 billion and an additional commitment to traffic of DKK 3.8 billion. At the same time, it provides a very good geographical distribution across the whole country. The action package, together with the increase in the ordinary budget, means that we have increased the budget for trade by a total of 25 pst. from 2008. It's the biggest increase in activity anywhere in the transport sector. Action packages allow hands and machines to be put into work. It also means that we have to upgrade roads and railways, and it works so that people and businesses across the country can have a safer, more environmentally friendly and more efficient transport system. The allocation has been estimated at DKr 2.3 billion for roadside measures and DKr 1.3 billion for measures in the transport sector. Not least, it is important that SEK 1/2 billion is set for walking and cycling roads and SEK 50 million. € to electric car charging stations to make it easier for people and businesses to choose electric car over petrol or diesel cars, i.e. to convert the transport sector into a green, renewable direction. We have chosen to listen to the municipalities. So they get $4 billion to invest for, while they get $2 billion in free income, money they themselves can decide if they want to use to refurbish school buildings, municipal roads, hospitals or other. It means more maintenance and increased employment in the construction industry and will provide room for increased activity in many municipalities. We have been busy putting in place measures that work quickly, because we know that the municipalities have projects that they are ready to implement. I am absolutely sure that municipalities will make good use of the money to make maintenance work and upgrade municipal buildings, so that indoor climate, energy use and universal design are better. Not least, €1.2 billion goes to renewable energy and energy conversion – a green resource for building up buildings, making them more energy efficient, investing in marine wind turbines and a commitment to trigger the great potential we have for increasing the uptake of forest raw materials into bioenergy, which in turn will create both jobs and climate-friendly energy. Creating new enterprises and new jobs for the future is one of the most important things we can do in the situation in which we live. Thus, we have doubled the resources of Innovation Norway, so we have started a new establishment grant scheme, and therefore there is an increase in ownership capital in Argentum. All these actions will contribute to what is now the government's number one job – securing existing jobs and creating new ones. At the same time, we need to focus on the global – both food crisis, climate crisis and the economic crisis. We need to create new driving blocks for the international economy, so that we don't, once again, in a few years' time, when we're through this crisis and perhaps in a new era, risk that single players can secure themselves and their own by endangering an entire world economy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1001	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1004	Norway is experiencing a tragic increase in the number of road fatalities, while the number of road deaths is declining on Swedish roads. That's now 27 pst. more likely to die on Norwegian roads than on Swedish roads. One of the reasons Sweden has succeeded is that Sweden builds 30 miles of road each year with middle parts. In response to a written question, my colleague Mr Bård Hoksrud has obtained an incomplete list of road projects that have been planned and can be started in 2009. This list contains road safety projects on national roads to a total of 203 million. kr. Many of the projects are not included in the Government’s action package. This applies, for example: adjoining works on the entrance to Sandefjord, i.e. rv. 303. Why has the Minister for Transport not chosen to use the package of measures to initiate all planned road safety measures?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1012	Within the framework of which the Government agreed to use for transport, we have developed important measures to ensure both increased road safety, increased traffic incidence and a more effective name. The same applies on the railway side, where we also have big stakes, not least in the form of upgrading existing railways, which should perhaps be job number one when we see how big a problem we have in that sector. So what's done is a selection of projects in collaboration with the State Road Service that covers the three objectives we had within a framework that the Government agreed to be used for transportation in this round. We've got extra travel permits of 25 pst. from 2008 to 2009. It's the greatest promise ever made. There will be more mid-trafficking, more quadruple roads and more traffic security for the money.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1019	In general, the Council of State addressed most aspects of the financial crisis, with the exception of those most affected, namely employees of small and medium-sized enterprises. Governments come from a part of the country maintained by small and medium-sized enterprises. They mean a lot in the local environment, and I guess the Council of State gets many of the same letters that I get from small and medium-sized enterprises that are deeply concerned about because of the tax increases that the Government has imposed on them in 2009. When we discussed the budget for 2009, several members of the Central Party expressed their opinion, including: Landfill representative Lundtegen, to look at changes in the asset tax and inheritance tax scheme in order to reduce the impact of the increase. Is it true that the Centre Party has now lost its desire to change the property tax and inheritance tax in order to mitigate the impact on small and medium-sized enterprises? Wasn't it so important when it came to the play?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1026	The centre party is occupied by the business community in general and the small and medium-sized enterprises in particular. We work both in the Government and in the Stortinget to improve their condition, and it is also such that when it comes to the proposals listed below, we continue to work to remove what may be unfortunate consequences. However, it is important to note that it is not the Government’s proposals in the budget that put business in a tighter position at the moment. There are entirely different and larger forces that affect the developments we see for small and medium-sized enterprises as well. Many of them feel that the market for their products has disappeared, also because the large companies, for which many of them produce, are missing their market. So it's a big and demanding exercise to find the good measures that will both secure small and medium-sized enterprises and the larger enterprises. That's what I'm humble about, and that's what we're going to work together in the government to find solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1031	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1034	There is a lot of rapid and good work in Kommune-Norway these days to prioritize and plan maintenance projects and different investments. The municipal sector has been given a major role in action work, and the Government’s package of measures is, for example, non-bureaucratic. The municipalities and county councils have shown the confidence needed to get people to work quickly and with the greatest possible effect through good, socially useful projects to benefit and to delight in large and small. At the same time, many of the projects will contribute to a better climate both indoor and indoor. But most importantly, the package ensures people work. Many municipalities do like Kongswinger and use a lot of measures to maintain schools, kindergartens and roads. Others use money to clean up the building stock in the care and care sectors, and the package also provides a boost in the cultural sector. At Lillehammer, for example. It will be used, among others: 5 million refurbishment. kr at Kulturhuset Banken, and many at Lillehammer will rejoice that the counterfeit sports ground in the centre of the year will appear as a modern all-activity facility for school and leisure. In the drama, the councillor proposes a comprehensive rehabilitation of the street in Lower Storgate, important environmental measures are planned in schools, and oil boilers will be replaced. Finally, in Kristiansund City Hall will become much more accessible than today. A significant part of the funds allocated to Kristiansund shall be universal in design, and ten unemployed young people shall, under skillful management, contribute to important maintenance work. There's just a few examples of everything going on. In addition to the 4 billion DKK that the local government sector receives for maintenance and investment, the increase in free revenues will be good for maintaining activity and also perhaps for having a little extra resources at exceptional times. At the same time, the commitment framework for nursing homes and nursing homes is more than doubled, and housing for disadvantaged people is also increasing. The framework of the Home Bank has also been extended by NOK 2 billion, which is not least important given the many people who want to make use of the start-up loan. The interest-rate compensation scheme for school buildings, swimming pools and church buildings has also been extended for this year, and Enova has been given a powerful endorsement, which I feel sure the municipal sector will know how to take advantage of. Here, we need to seize the green possibilities. I will give tribute to the Government for an offensive and targeted package of measures, and to the majority of the Committees for contributing to making parts of the package of measures even better, for example. as regards the extension of the daily allowance period to 52 weeks. I am very pleased that the majority of the committee sees the importance of greater flexibility related to rolling permits, and that the committee asks the Government to find solutions to this beyond the change in pay from ten to five days, which also works positively in this way. I understand that this has to be done in a thoughtful way, and that different considerations have to be taken, but still, it's urgent. The Raufoss industry, with nearly 2 000 people linked to carp production, has been hit hard by the financial crisis. It's now approx. 400 fewer within factory ports than it was in September, and several of the government's actions seem positive. The future is uncertain, but fortunately, both employees and management in the various companies cooperate well and think offensively. They will use the crisis time for a series of training measures for employees to come back more strongly. Uppland County has been here from the very beginning. I think that's all possible reason to praise Uppland County Municipality for the job that's been done here, because this week the county council grants $3 million. SEK for competence measures, of which 2 million. kr shall be used in the Raufoss environment. This is money that has been collected from the increased free income in connection with this package that we are adopting today. I am impressed by the county council, as I said, because this is about action and assistance, and not least I think it is great how the trade unions here have also committed themselves strongly to giving their members a higher level of competence so that they are stronger in the company or in relation to other opportunities later on. In order to succeed in this training programme, a high degree of flexibility and the use of rolling platforms are just so important, in order to obtain systematic training and maintain workers’ links with enterprises. Those who are unemployed have to start meaningful activities quickly. It is important for many reasons, not least because of the motivation of the individual. I feel sure that the Government understands this and will quickly contribute to further flexibility, in addition to the series of good actions that will immediately begin to work and give good effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1049	Based on the last article, there may be reason to expect the Government to come back with proposals to grant tax exemptions for intra-corporate training, which the Progress Party is calling for. One of the key prerequisites for social and industrial development is education and research. It is the level of knowledge and innovation that determines how we meet the challenges of the future. As a result, the pressure on educational institutions is increasing in times of recession. Increased unemployment results in more people improving their skills and taking on higher education. Some do so on their own initiative, others feel pressured to do so because the demands for skills in business are increasing. The Progress Party is therefore disappointed that government parties do not take over this expected extra burden for universities and colleges. Because the starting point isn't very good. There is still a lack of approx. 400 million. kr in the sector to compensate for cutbacks, wage increases and pension costs. Universities and colleges are cutting the supply of students, and the time for research is falling. It is in this picture that government parties believe that the university and higher education sectors are able to receive even more students than they are today, without being compensated for financially. The progress party is proposing 400 million. increased basic appropriations to ensure that educational institutions are able to receive and prepare for more students. It is pointless to postpone such a decision. It takes time to change and, of course, it is too late to make any new additions and adjustments after the revision of the national budget in June. Then it is holiday time and difficult to recruit, and study start in August. Since the launch of the Stjernø Committee, several universities and higher education institutions have voluntarily initiated processes to improve cooperation between institutions. Some have joined, others have married. When we face downturns and under-allocations to higher education, such important processes often stop, because it costs money to carry out such cooperation and pooling processes. However, in the long term, such processes will provide a better and more efficient sector. An example of such development is the ongoing cooperation project under the name of the Oslofjord Alliance, where the universities of Vestfold, Buskerud, Østfold and Akershus cooperate with UMB at Ås to create more common courses of education. Maybe a dawning Oslo Earth University sees, maybe not. However, the point is that at these times there should be scope to allow for the implementation of processes leading to a better and more efficient sector in combination with a better offer to students. That is why the Progress Party has proposed 25 million. kr in means of conversion to universities and higher education institutions which are in a process of closer cooperation or aggregation. Part of Norwegian research is carried out with equipment discarded by comparable countries a long time ago. There is little consistency between the equipment the students are working on and the equipment they will later be working on in the private sector or internationally. This also hampers cooperation between the higher education sector and private business, and it seems to exclude international research cooperation. Some would argue that such investment will not help to solve the problem against which the crisis package is intended as a medicine, but at the same time it will have to look at the measures to be implemented now in a slightly more comprehensive perspective. By investing in modern research equipment, we will improve the innovation and development potential. Again – not in 2009, but in some way – it will contribute to the creation of new jobs. Such equipment purchases are therefore a clear investment with a view to creating future jobs. Therefore, it is sad that the government parties are not with the Progress Party on equipment purchases to universities and colleges with 250 million. kr. For many years universities and colleges have complained about the lack of resources for maintenance. With the form of funding we have for higher education today, it is to be assumed that institutions will have to dispose of their total resources on their own and therefore have to provide maintenance for themselves. However, with the difficult economic situation that this government coalition has brought on higher education in Norway, it must really be expected that maintenance will become a balancing item in the budget work of the institutions, because they are trying to protect education and research to the greatest extent possible, and it is not going very well in the long term. However, the point is that this situation has led to an even greater level of maintenance in the sector over the last three years. Many of the maintenance kits are approaching the limit of urgency for repair, and we know that inadequate maintenance entails additional costs in the long term. The promotion party will use the opportunity to use 500 million. kr more on this. At the end of the day, I would like to make it quite clear that, even in times of crisis, the education sector is going to come out much worse with the current government constellation than with any government constellation on the bourgeois side, when you look at the proposals that are being discussed here today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1075	Before presenting this package of measures, there were many critical voices that claimed that it would have no green profile at all and that environmental and climate considerations would not be met. So it's wrong to take. Fortunately, we have shown financial soundness over several years, and for this reason we are more robust than many other countries and have economic muscles to meet the demanding situation we are now facing. This space of action uses the Government in a very good way. A crisis is an opportunity to think new and different. For this reason, we have chosen to colour this package of measures very green and to guide it in an environmentally friendly direction. We're looking at the different appropriations to which it is added. The appropriations for Enova have been increased by NOK 1.2 billion. In total, Enova will dispose of DKK 2.6 billion in the current year. This is about NOK 2 billion more than the previous government added. This is a large-scale commitment to renewable energy. We have also chosen to focus offensively on climate and environmental research. This is in line with the climate agreement that all the parties on the Stortinget, except the Advance Party, chose to stand behind. Recently, the Government decided to set up eight research centres to invest in environmentally friendly energy. In the action package, there are several research actions. For example, we will increase the allocation of climate research through the Norwegian Research Council by 75 million. kr. In addition, there are a number of measures totaling up to a total of 230 million. kr, which may affect our future knowledge of climate research. These are just a few of the many examples that we have chosen to spend a lot of money on a green and climate-friendly transformation of our society. But in addition to being climate friendly, we are also industry friendly. This is very important. Norway is a proud industrial nation where thousands of people have their daily work in various industrial establishments around the country. In order for the industry to develop in Norway, the overall competitiveness must be satisfactory. We are strengthening this competitiveness through various targeted actions that combine good climate policies with good and forward-looking industrial policies – a policy for modern and forward-looking jobs in Norwegian industry. Renewable energy is also investing in new and forward-looking jobs. The examples here might be many, but we'll give you, for example, Enova is dedicated to focusing its efforts in particular on energy efficiency improvement in industry, construction, environmentally friendly heating solutions and wind power development. This will generate new, forward-looking jobs. With increased funding, we can also launch new environmentally friendly projects, while speeding up already planned projects. Enova should give priority to projects that deliver good energy results and that can be started quickly. I would like to stress that this is a separate scheme of limited duration and that the main purpose is to stimulate employment. But I believe that through this we are able to make a major contribution to the fight against global warming and the major climate challenges we have. I would like to stress that Norway has committed itself to the two-degree objective, and we are also following that in this setting. The aim of our commitment to energy conversion is to develop an efficient market for environmentally friendly energy solutions, which will be viable in the long term without support schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1098	The situation for the fishing industry is very difficult, said the chairman of the Committee, Mr Sandal. I agree, but there's no news that it's difficult. The Progress Party has been concerned about the long-term situation in the fishing industry, and since October we have addressed the situation of the fisheries industry with the Government in this room and elsewhere. The answer we've been given is that you follow the situation closely. It is good for the government to follow the situation closely, but the main thing is that the measures are taken. We in the Progress Party and also the fishing industry have called for measures from the Government. The government has opposed and failed to take action. Many good and creative measures have been proposed last year, but the government has not wanted to follow it up. Fortunately, then, the red-greens have gradually come to realize the seriousness and have come up with measures such as operating credit, bonding arrangements, guarantees via the sales laws, etc. That is good; we support it. But the problem is that you haven't come up with the right things. The government has not yet delivered the problem where the problems are greatest. We still lack export finance for seafood, similar to the other industries received from the Government. What is the consequence of non-export financing and measures taken by the Government? Prime Minister Stoltenberg said that every day businesses close the door. That's absolutely right. This also applies to fisheries recipients and the fishing industry. This week there have been twelve receptions and fishing companies shut the doors only in North Troms, and that is what happens during the best cod fishing period. There has never been as much cod in the sea as now, but nevertheless you close. The situation in North Troms is not special; this is also the situation elsewhere along the coast. Cod fishing is the main income for many fishermen, and it is this season that provides the basis for the income you want. Stopping the receiver and fishing has serious consequences both for the fishing fleet and for the receiver. Local communities affected are hit hard, simply because they are corner stone holdings in many small communities that are already struggling with employment and value creation and which also have little nutrient base in other areas. The Prime Minister also said that the Government should take new action if the situation so requires. The situation in the fishing industry requires new measures. Those measures should be taken very quickly. These measures must be taken while there is still a basis for them, i.e. while there is still cod in the sea. It is not the case that the cod is waiting for this government to come to grips with new measures. These measures must come now. Now the government has been good lately and brought new action packages on Sundays. I hope and expect that the Government will also use the next Sunday to bring new measures to the fishing industry. Recording is not required. The Progress Party has made a number of proposals today which it is only for the Government to look at. Fisheries organisations, Norway’s Raw Fish teams, the FHL and a number of other organisations have solutions and are in dialogue with the Minister for Fisheries. It's just listening to what the organizations want, you have solutions for the fishing industry. I hope the government realizes the seriousness and comes with good solutions for the fishing industry before it is too late.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1111	In my view, in a discussion on labour market developments, it is most important to focus on good industrial policy, good fiscal measures, good measures for financial institutions and good counter-cyclical measures that contribute to increasing demand through the public sector, including: by private sector services when private sector demand is reduced. Our objective in the action package is to have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe, but we need the most powerful measures to strengthen the activity. I think there is a lot of background to the good reception of the package of measures. Many people are familiar with this because we have had extensive cooperation on the measures we have now proposed. The President is well aware of the term ‘consultation’. The proposals that are now being presented are the result of broad consultation with all the actors in the world of work. This also applies to measures taken against those who become unemployed. When the daily allowance period is extended from 30 to 52 weeks, and not least when the employer's share of the pay for those on leave is reduced from 10 to 5 days, it is the two priority measures of the labour market itself. I must stress that the reduction from 10 to 5 days is the most important measure to allow for more rolling platforms, more flexibility in the permitting arrangements, because it costs less for the employer to leave. Then I must be allowed to say that it is wrong what several speakers have said here today, that it is not allowed to permit 80 pst., i.e. one day a week away from work. It's completely legal. You're allowed to permit 70 pst. It is up to the parties at work to reach an agreement on it. It is clear that it is better for a worker who is on leave – and I have been on leave, I – because you get 66 pst. You get 80 pst. if you work 80 pst. and perhaps even a little more if you agree with the employer. So that's a good reason. Despite that, we will continue to work and discuss further flexible arrangements in terms of the rules for daily allowances under a permit. It's important to separate that. I'm a little concerned that no one is seducing business to think that you can't permit 80 pst. Then I am glad that it seems to be allocated increased resources to Nav – 6,000 new action sites to 650 million. NOK and not less than 320 new employees. I think it's important to stress it, because we're busy meeting the unemployed in a real way. So the money for the jobs is being allocated today. Yet, Nav has challenges. There has been a recent discussion about increasing pension costs of about One hundred million. kr requires them to cut posts. There the government has said that they can move on and assume that we will make sure that they have enough resources to follow up the goals we have set for Nav. When the discussion calmed down, there were questions about many employees to be dismissed. So we're always trying to make sure that we meet the situation even when it comes to daily allowances. Let me give you an example: Nav's management is very open at where we might be in trouble in the country. Several have mentioned it. It's about four counties. Oslo, Akershus, Østfold and Hordaland are referred to as the counties as per Today, the objective of 80 pst is not met. shall be dealt with within three weeks. It's totally unacceptable. A person shall not be in the social office for a daily allowance. But that's how we've heard about this before it was in the paper, and that's why action is being taken in those states that have the biggest challenges. In Hordaland, even though it is one of the countries that have had the greatest challenges, in a few weeks they have been able to build up the remains and are now in the process of entering the border – that is, 80 pst. shall have a reply before three weeks. Some things are more complicated than others, and that's why we've set 80 pst. So it's going to be something to do with it. It shouldn't be like that. It's totally unacceptable that people don't get their daily allowance. That's why we're doing something about it, for example. through the appropriations available today. Finally, I have received a request from the parliamentary leaders to come and explain to other parts of the developments in Nav, and I am very pleased to be able to do so. This will be followed daily and action will be taken to ensure the success of our common reform. That is why we have said that we want to come back to the Storing in written form to explain the situation in Nav, what has been done, what is being done, and how to make sure that we land this important reform in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1128	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1131	I think the Council of State has misunderstood something about our proposals. I fully agree with the Council of State that it is better to get 80 pst. pay than 66 pst. wages and salaries. But our proposal is that you get 80 pst. pay, and then you get 66 pst. Of the 20 percent you're licensed, and it's far better than 80 pst. wages and salaries. But that's not what I'm going to do. There are major problems within Nav now. In Søndre Nordstrand, a crew has been assigned to the small office of eight years' work until the summer. It takes several weeks to process an application for a daily allowance, and you are transferred to the social office and another case manager within Nav. So we know that there are some kind of agreements between Nav and the crew companies, where they've said that you're not going to use the crew companies. The crew companies are ready to move in and help Nav with this situation. Why is it that you don't use private? Is that the general resistance to using private?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1139	Point one: that is what has been said in the debate here that there is no opportunity to permit 20 pst., which was the starting point for my comment on that. Point two: that's how we get to where there's challenges, for example. in the case of daily allowances, adopts the necessary measures. We have. More measures have been put in place in Hordaland. One of the measures is that we have some extra people who are particularly good at downgrading. They start in Oslo when they're done in Hordaland, just to get the same result there. So we're working with a targeted analysis of where things work too badly. That's how we're going to get a grip on it. So to the last question about manning. I realized yesterday that there were questions about some crew companies taking over the job with Nav. I have commented on that as not applicable. There are still new jobs under call in Nav, and there are 320 new jobs this afternoon. So Nav has already started recruiting. I am not aware of the fact that in some cases there have been persons from crew companies as an additional worker, but no decision has been made that this cannot happen. But first of all, we need regular Nav employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1148	Day Terje Andersen must have come with today's understatement when he said, "Life has Nav challenges." What we now experience is a scandal, in my opinion. It is people who are affected by this, and it is completely unworthy to treat people who have lost their jobs, in this way. In our digital world, the daily allowance should not be more than one keystroke away. When the municipalities are able to arrange for social assistance, the jammy Nav should be able to fix it quickly. If I understood correctly, he says that his response to the wishes of the parliamentary leaders that the Council of State should come to the Grand Duchy and explain is a big message in March. We are not satisfied with that. I believe it is totally unacceptable if the Council of State intends to wait until March with a big message, and does not come into the Storting and explain the situation and what action will be taken. So I ask the Council of State to clarify whether his response to the opposition in the Storting is a big deal in March, or whether he will come to the Storing and explain the situation and what action will be taken as soon as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1155	Firstly, I have stressed that it is totally unacceptable that people do not get their daily allowance. I thought it was quite clear. And then I've also said what I'm going to do with it. Point 2: With regard to a statement, I think the recent debate just underlines that there may be a need to have a written starting point and a case for discussion in the Stortinget as the basis for a debate on Nav. Then I refer to, for example: several politicians from the opposition have commented that Nav should have kept a secret from me that they get extra pension costs. That's all wrong. They have been informed in a very common way, and we are dealing with this in a very common way, with a final conclusion on Nav's costs in order to deal with it towards revised national budgets – that is, completely normal treatment. Many have also commented that over a hundred people in Nav Oslo will be fired. It's also completely wrong. These are just two examples of the fact that discussing such a case only on the basis of media lookups, without even checking with the ministry whether it is actually correct, can lead to a little mistake. I think it is most respectful to Stortinget to come up with a solid, well-worked starting point as a basis for discussing the situation in Nav.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1164	The Christian People's Party supports the strengthening of Nav with a total of 320 temporary posts. Our impression is that this is a minimum of what Nav needs to get away from the queues that grow because more and more people become unemployed. So we were surprised that someone could read in the class fight on February 4th this year. It says that according to the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour and Inclusion, the money for these posts is more than what Nav himself has asked for. Can the Council of States confirm that this is the case? And are there other actions that Nav would rather give priority to than more jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1171	I am glad that the conclusion is not drawn just on the basis of a look-up in the class struggle. The reality is that these 320 jobs include two things: there are 120 jobs as a result of increasing the number of places of action by 6,000 – that's the usual fraction we use to figure it out. 200 jobs are what we have assessed that we need additional staff for Nav in order to better solve the unemployment situation. Because I am concerned about two things: the weak in the labour market who need other types of action will not pay this bill, and we will continue to bring down the balance in areas other than daily allowances. That's what we've come up with is the right level, because it's also going to be recruited and it's going to involve people who are being trained and who are going to be able to function effectively in the system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1176	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1181	An area that has been severely affected by the international financial crisis and where unemployment is increasing is construction. That's why the government is taking hold and betting heavily on transportation. The transport sector has been allocated DKK 3.8 billion, and if we include the state budget that we adopted in December, we will spend SEK 7 billion more on transport in 2009 than in 2008. I am aware that the opposition always has more money, and that they will come with their famous: too little – too late. What has been important for this government is that this should be a package that can get people back to work quickly and keep the wheels going. Therefore, we use transport money on projects that are approved and ready to build. We allocate NOK 2.3 billion more for road purposes so that finished roads can be carried out, and there is also much to be done for operation and maintenance. We'll give half a billion more to asphalt. It took a week from the government to bring out the emergency package until the asphalt offers were out. That's what I call action. The railway network will have an increase of DKK 1.3 billion, which will be used to accelerate the development and planning of several major projects. I am also pleased that we granted half a billion kroner for the construction of walking and cycling routes. It will provide safer school roads for children and young people. In the spring and summer, many drivers will experience that they meet asphalt layers. Yeah, someone might get a little annoyed by that too, but I think the joy will be bigger than the anger when you see that the roads get better. We will see this all over the country, and this – together with scaffolding around – will be a picture of Norway. That's a result of the government rate. There have been many good local headlines in the newspapers around that you are happy with the package of measures. This tells me that the measures are good and have taken correctly. The grips that are now being taken are directed towards what has been the Labour Party's fight No.1: Work for all. The Labour Party has previously been elected to ‘We build the country’. The effort we put in now is a continuation of it. This has led representatives from the opposition to suggest that the package of measures is an election campaign. Well, if that means that our measures are useful, it's the same for me what they call it. This government is delivering, and we should all be happy for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1200	The range of packages provided by the Government is good. They provide a large contribution to environmentally friendly development, and they provide many jobs – and that is important. They come in areas that we want to strengthen, and that we know will bring society in the right direction. I think the debate here has shown that too. But there's one piece of the debate that I think borders on the absurd. It's the Progress Party attack on the Government in terms of Nav. And let it be said that it is not acceptable – as the Council of State said – that people have to wait week by week, not for months, for daily allowances or other benefits, or wait for help in a difficult situation. It has been taken up by the Government, and it will continue to have a high focus on it. There we have to follow the situation regularly, and we do. And the attacks come from a party that in the 2008 budget cut in Nav's posts with almost half a billion dollars, and in the year's budget has cut this with a quarter of a billion dollars. And these are positions! It's the people who have to sit and answer the phone. It is the people who are going to sit and deal with unemployment and other social security issues. It is the people who are going to help those who are now unemployed, both to get benefits and to get into either education, action or work. I think this limits to the absurd, and it's so incredible that I almost don't understand that it's possible to make such arguments on that side of the party. In addition to that – this is not enough: the Progress Party also removes the additional social benefits for older people who are not entitled to social security, and they remove the qualification programme. And what does that mean? Well, that means that people who have fixed benefits that they can live on year-round have to go to Nav and get their case dealt with every single month to get something to live on, and matters are to be handled by fewer employees than we already have today. And then you allow yourself in that situation to criticize both the Government and the Nav because there are difficulties in this area now. No, there I believe that there is every reason to listen to those who are in the Nav system, who are working there, and who are struggling now, and who want a better situation. There is every reason to listen to the people who are unemployed, or who are waiting for another benefit, or who need help and action, when they say that this is not working well enough. But there's no reason to listen to those who think that in this situation there would have been fewer people in Nav to do the important job that we're facing now, when we know that many more are going to be unemployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1209	The President would point out that ‘freight’ is not a parliamentary way of characterising the policy of an opponent.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1212	I want to commend the Government for its power of action in a difficult situation. The opposition is still saying that the measures are too late and that it is too small. However, I am pleased that the Government is constantly assessing the situation with the stakeholders, and is putting the measures in place in a way that is clear and targeted. The right-hand side is all talking about tax havens. I understand that this is an ideological case for the right, but I can't see the big effect it can have. For those who are on a normal salary level, tax relief will not be noticed at all. And those who do not have a job do not have income to tax either. Who then notices a tax haven, and what effect will this have on the welfare of our country? Now we also see the importance of keeping the economy in order. We can now see how important it was to hold back in good times, to have something to fall back on in tight times. We have a difficult situation within several industries in these days, and people feel insecure about work and income. This is not least the case in the fisheries. In the north there are now many receptions that do not buy fish, and therefore also stop the fish. This is done in the main season of fisheries. I have no doubt that the measures that are now coming will work. The industry itself believes that. But I want as much as I can, to ask that the industry also get help marketing special salt fish and rockfish that are in stock and that are of top quality. It is important that Norwegian fishery products do not lose market during this difficult time. I hope that within current schemes or in future measures, something will also be done in relation to another district industry — agriculture. There is a great need for investment here. Plans are clear and significant construction activities can start rapidly if capital is made available. These are investments of great importance for food production, housing, employment, animal welfare and the environment. I hope that this is something the Government will bring with it in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1231	We are in an international system crisis created by too much right-wing policy. The crisis poses fundamental questions as to whether right-wing policies are suitable for creating the workplaces and the security of homes that the right-hand side often claims. Many of those affected by industrial unemployment today depend on foreign demand, which is now lacking. The package we adopt helps to dampen the growth in unemployment, but can't just stop it. One of the most important results from our government has been that we have got over 200,000 more in work. The number of unemployed was halved from 2005 to 2008. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. The aim must be that even after the crisis is over, we have Europe's lowest unemployment rate. I will underline three things for the future work: We have a responsibility for solidarity to care for those who are hit hardest. Unemployment is heavy for those affected, but also for those around. Local authorities must use their increased resources to increase preparedness for those in need of more assistance than the daily allowance. Indebtedness counselling, child protection and mental health services must be strengthened. The second concerns a challenge for businesses, both large and small and medium-sized. A recent NKS survey showed that employers now send 50 pst. fewer employees on continuing training compared to a year ago. At the same time, they have reduced their share of the cost of continuing training from 35 pst. until 24 pst. The action package provides an increased framework for more workers to acquire basic skills. In the consultations we have held in the Financial Committee, all the professional organisations have given priority to training and training at the stage we are in, both in the activities in which we are engaged, and also to further training for other positions, such as: in public activities. We heard no later than today in the news that the labour demand there is unmet. It is my humble wish that employers’ organisations, at different levels, sit down with the trade unions – and in general with their local Nav offices – and look at how we can achieve something positive for individuals, in order to strengthen the needs of companies for change and meet the overall needs of society for labour. Perhaps someone can record the clever suggestions on how to combine permitations and the necessary skills development — getting employees in shoe shops to care and car manufacturing employees to environmental technologies through labour market measures? I have great faith in the creativity of Norwegian private business and that crises create new opportunities. The third is a challenge to ourselves. This is to listen to the advice we have received from LO – for example: examined the regulation of financial markets. I hope that after this we can do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1249	It has been a demanding start to the new year, with the financial crisis and its consequences. Local communities become frames and individuals become frames. Yesterday's news shows that we could hear about Høyanger, who is missing 300 jobs. This is serious, and we know that one of the worst things that can happen is to lose the job. Fortunately, we have a government that sees action and that has presented targeted measures. Measures should mitigate the impact of the international crisis and all measures have been favourably received by industry. As part of the active business policy, we provide public framework conditions tailored to the needs of enterprises. The instrument plays an important role both in the implementation and in the follow-up of the measures. The package includes: increase access to loans, guarantees and grants through an increased framework to Innovation Norway. It opens up for several companies to receive support for their projects. A good example is that Innovation Norway granted yesterday a loan to Kongsberg Automotive to enable them to develop new products for the future. On the tax side, action has also been taken to improve businesses, both the improvement of the tax FUNN scheme and cyclical tax relief. I visited Fras Technology at Ås on the day package was released. This is an innovative knowledge company that has developed new methods of oil monitoring and purification. The company must now both research and develop its technology further and establish itself in Årdal with 30 added. The feedback from Fras Technology was positive. The package measures were particularly well targeted at that type of enterprise. In tough times, it is especially important that people who want to establish themselves, and who have good ideas, get drag help from the state. Therefore, the new establishment grant is an incredibly important tool. The scholarship is a nation-wide scheme, which allows good ideas throughout the country to be realized. Earlier this week, the news came that export finance should be able to enter into export contracts already concluded without funding. This is of great importance to others. shipyards along the coast. We know that they have large order servers, but that many projects lack funding. We are adopting today a crisis package that provides quick results, ensuring that more people come to work. We secure jobs, and we help those who lose their job. Now it's also important that we see the possibilities ahead of us. We must use this crisis to create future jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1266	I have been following this debate with excitement today to hear what message the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade had to send to a business life in crisis. But what do we see? The Minister of Industry and Trade is shadowing the Storting on such an important day – we may have the most important debate in this four-year period. What kind of a signal is it sending out to all the companies and all the employees who are in crisis? At least it does not give hope for an active industrial policy in the future. Our businesses are heavily hit. Businesses are going bankrupt. There are now signs of poor performance. We get permits and cancellations. Then there are closures. We see that exports are severely affected. We also see that all industries have challenges. There is great uncertainty about the future. Many also ask themselves: What is happening — what is the future of competitive business in Norway? This crisis cannot be resolved by employing all or more people in the public sector. Now is the time to pursue an active industrial policy, and not just talk, as representatives of the red-green parties have come with since the last growing period, through the elections, and now in this period. An active industrial policy is about having a real will and ability to invest in business, and making continuous efforts to make business believe that Norway is a leading business country. Unfortunately, we are not. Now is the time to pursue an active entrepreneurial policy. We must have an active entrepreneurial policy to ensure that people who sit on the good ideas – they don't get lost in times of crisis – believe that it is important to bet on starting their own businesses. People have to take the chance to start their own businesses and hire someone in addition to themselves. It requires that companies start easier, that we get so-called one-stop shops, that we look at the capital requirement to start a limited company, that we do something about the tax code – come with tax liability – that we do something about the form field and that we have incubators, which means that those who want to start companies get help quickly and also access to capital.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1277	As others have noted, the financial crisis has overtaken the fishing industry with full weight, and it affects the industry at the worst possible time. As the screams now stagger toward the coast, the fishermen hardly dare to pick it up from the sea. In Nord-Troms, the fishermen now meet closed doors at the reception facilities on land. The fish buyer Ole Johnny Nilsen in Andøy Municipality says this in the simplest way: ‘The consequences will be serious if we cannot wind up winter fishing in a normal way. The fishermen will lose much of their income. The fishing industry workers will be permitted. The companies get nothing to sell. The market does not receive fish from Norway.’ Today, the fishing industry and Ole Johnny Nilsen receive answers from Stortinget. The industry will immediately receive the help it has requested. There is soon no one other than the representative of Korsberg who has not discovered it. I am particularly pleased that there is now a separate guarantee scheme for the first-hand marketing of fish of a total of 525 million. kr. In addition, it's set at 175 million. kr for the loss provision for this guarantee scheme. It is also important that more money is allocated to the marketing of Norwegian seafood abroad and that the framework for leadership grants is increased. I assume that Innovation Norway is now acting so quickly that the funds reach the companies that need them before it is too late. The increased framework for GIEK is very important for the fishing industry. The general government measures to increase the access to credit in the market will also contribute to normalising the credit market. What we are adopting today is crisis aid in a very special situation. Only when banks start to function again will the fishing industry and other industries return to a normal situation. But there's something we can't do: we can't open markets that are being closed or that fail. The export of salt fish in January is 40 pst. below the level from the same month in 2008. Many companies have stocks from last year — purchased at a higher price than today’s market is willing to pay. And the experience of the past has taught us that building too large stocks also has its risk, not to say its price. Then it might actually be more useful that stocks build up in the ocean.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1293	This debate may seem likely to be outside the scope of a budget debate light, but it is well and good that the government has now finally come out of its fall and winter hibernation and realized that there is a need for action. The government is acting, we've heard several of the red-green representatives say in different posts in the hall today. But where were they two months ago when individual trade budgets and budgets were to be adopted? I'm specifically looking for the justice sector. So it took a financial crisis for the government and the Minister of Justice to get their eyes up and see that it was a police crisis. The whole fall went out both the opposition, the Progress Party and the Police Joint Alliance and said there was going to be a crisis in the police. A month and a half ago, we said that during the budgetary procedure. Then we heard the same lesson from the Minister of Justice: it's not a police crisis. Next year - 2009 - will be a very good year for the police. Then there's going to be increased admissions at the Police College, there's going to be increased bets on civilian positions, and not least, criminal services are going to get a big boost to maintenance in prison buildings. The government had $10,000 a month and a half ago. kr for civil positions. Today they have 242 million. kr. Welcome after! It is very good that we have got this package, but this predicted both the Progress Party and the Police Joint Association in the autumn of 2008. Now let's hope that these means that come are used in the right way. I have a little heart attack from someone who works administratively at a police station in this country. He has several applicants — young, educated police — who now work in civil professions because they do not get a job in the police. That's why he dubiously asks the police stationmaster: can I use this money to hire trained policemen? I really hope that the Government is in favour of not just hiring civilians in these positions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1302	We are now in a very serious economic situation that has a major impact on business, working life and the many affected. That is why I am pleased that we have a government that has dealt with the demanding situation from the first day. We have received a lot of criticism, especially from the Progress Party, for not having used more oil money in the past. The situation we are now in shows that our assessments have been quite correct. Accuracy in the past gives room for offensiveness today. The action package provides room for action for the banking, financial and business sectors and will help to combat unemployment. The government also demonstrates its action when adding 460 civilian positions to the police in the action package. Additional allocation of 252 million. kr will also contribute to the release of some 280 police officers from civil duties such as detention, transport and border control and deployment of operational police work. I visited the Salten police district two weeks ago, where the chief of police was happy to take seven new positions. This helps the police chief to use police officers who are now staffing the Operation Centre for investigation and active service. Throughout the country, we have received a stream of positive feedback from the police officers who say that this will facilitate the police everyday life and contribute to a more visible and accessible police force. This is a historic lift for the police and more than meets all demands for more jobs. The opposition, at the Right, demanded in Dagbladet a while ago that 200 new civilians be hired in the police force. We have 460. On 8 December last year, the Joint Police Association asked us to establish immediately 200-300 new civilian posts. We'll establish 460. The red-green majority is now taking another step forward in the process of creating more police force in Norway, a work we started in 2005. In all the budgets presented by the Red-Green Government, we have increased the appropriations for the police, for the criminal services, for the justice sector, and despite that opposition, now just represented by the representative Horne, they are now trying to talk away from the fact that they have not put any money into the justice sector in their proposals for the action package. The biggest problem in the police today is the low manning. That's why we have, among other things, provided a record record for the Police College. It will ensure that 1776 police, i.e. in the current ageing period, will be trained. more than 600 more than in the previous period. No other party, except for the Christian People's Party, that has granted 10 million. EUR for Ecocrim, has proposed increased appropriations for the justice sector in the treatment of the package of measures. I am pleased that the Government both takes responsibility for the demanding economic situation we are in, and shows the power of action with regard to the police – again.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1321	Let me first refer to the post I made earlier, and I am sorry if it was such that I was clearly perceived to be wrong by the Council of State. So I'm sorry that the Council of State perceived this as a mistake. Of course, it's allowed to give a 20-pst reduction in working time, but I think both the Council of State and those who were in the main hall were painfully aware of what was the intention of the Progress Party's proposal, and what was really the point of my post, namely that if a permit 20 pst., one today has no rights to day money. Nor does the sitting government say that you should get it. It is clear that it will be of great importance to the individual. Take a starting point from a person who earns 350,000 kroner, and who works for four days and gets a permit for one day, so if he had kept 66 pst. in the day-to-day allowance for that day, it amounts to NOK 46 200. I believe that both the employer and the employee had been very pleased to have had such a scheme, a more flexible regulation, than if the bill had been sent to the employer and employee. But I record that the current government thinks it makes more sense to send the bill to the employees and to the employers. I also want to make some comments on what the representative Karin Andersen said. If you go into our proposal for a government budget and read it carefully, and if you look at chapter 605, the Progress Party has actually proposed a total of 707 748 000 more than the government parties. The fact that from this pulpit you run with a number trick and a rhetoric that's wrong, and claims that we've reduced this frame, I'm very far away from it, because that's not the case. Then I want to point out, as both State Councillor Andersen and Prime Minister were concerned about, that what is most important now is to do something for those who are being permitted, for example. reducing the pay obligation of employers from 10 to 5 days. It's not of the most important steps, but why in the world is the government waiting for April 1st to introduce this? Why can't it be introduced at a much earlier date? That's now these people need this help, and then it becomes completely incomprehensible to me that you push it out in time. Both the business community, the trade unions and others have suggested that it should have been speeded up. Finally, I register that you should go through the situation in Nav. But it's a little strange that you have to wait until March. They are the ones who are licensed today and are told that they cannot get their application processed before two months, who need help. That's now we need people in Nav to deal with the issues. Then it becomes completely incomprehensible to me that the sitting government will wait with a review until March and take action then, which most likely will not have an effect until – just – April.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1335	The financial crisis is serious for the world, and not least for individuals who are deprived of security. At the same time, it is like, among other things, Lundtigen pointed out, two other crises that threaten, namely climate crisis and food crisis. All three are woven into each other. Greed, over-consumption, excessive belief in free trade and incentives that promote short-term risk behaviour are key. If we are to get out of this in a way that ensures long-term security for the planet, and long-term security for all people on this planet – not just the most prosperous – the change of course needs to be made. Crisis always carries a germ for something new — and opportunities to create positive changes. I sincerely hope that it is Kristin Halvorsen, not Siv Jensen, who will represent Norway in the decisive work to be done internationally to bring about the necessary change of course. Magnar Lund Bergo quoted from the Promskrittspartiet's proposal for a new party program instead. This was the case with the liberalist economic policy. I can add that in this programme there are serious formulations in terms of climate and environment. It will be tragic – and directly threatening the future of the earth – about parties that the Progress Party is given too much power in the world. A few quotes for horror and warning – first of all: ‘The day’s debate on climate change focuses on whether human activity contributes to accelerating or changing the natural course of climate change.’ And on the other hand, ‘It is important not to take hasty decisions on the introduction of costly measures, regulations, etc. There is neither a sufficient scientific basis for, nor a positive practical impact of implementing urgent measures.» The international debate is not about whether the climate is changing as a result of human behaviour, but about what we should do to prevent the worst impacts of climate change. A waiting and looking attitude is deadly, not least to the poorest people in the world, those who are also hardest hit both by the food crisis and by the financial crisis. In addition, it is outright stupid for a country to adopt a regressive attitude to climate change – not only for the sake of equal value of other people and for the sake of nature’s tolerance limits, but also for the sake of jobs in this country. The earlier we convert from pollution to low emissions, the more robust and secure Norwegian jobs will be in the future. The longer we wait, the more expensive it becomes to sort out the sins of the past – and the worse the consequences will be for all of us. It is therefore good that the Government's package of measures is as specious as green. Railway investment, doubling the allocation of walking and cycling routes, strong strengthening of Enova and investing in energy efficiency are examples, including the increase in climate information work, Transnova and bioenergy. In both economic and environmental and resource terms, saving on energy savings and efficiency is enormous. The nature protection association has calculated that Norway can release 15 TWh electricity from construction and that investments in modern lighting can generate savings costs equivalent to NOK 4 billion. Reduced power consumption can release electricity that can in turn replace energy sources with large emissions. It is therefore important that green energy conversion, including saving, has a strong focus in the government action package.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1354	The action package has a gloomy wallpaper. At the same time, the action package provides a very special opportunity for many municipalities and county councils to ensure maintenance tasks that they have seen fit to neglect. First, you get all parts of the four billion for maintenance. I also record that they are happy about the combination that now becomes possible with free revenues, so that one can benefit from the different schemes that are included in the package. In total, this gives a very special option to pair tasks with your free hands. I am thinking of the possibility of exploiting the extended interest compensation scheme that has been widely sought, both for schools and swimming pools, and for churches. I am thinking about the investment in care, housing and health care places – so there are now rooms for contributions to 2,500 more together, including the budget – and for teacher places. And let me take a very special look at the rentals. So now there's a total of 3,000 rentals in the budget and in this package, and there's a total of 1,000 more than that in the last three years. It tells both that the municipalities that are now really committed to getting their own homes have the possibility, and it also tells us that the municipalities that do not currently have a housing social action plan have to hurry to get them in place. Build stands for 40 pst. of CO2 emissions. Here, too, there is the opportunity to ensure that energy savings and lower costs are put in place. Similarly, there is a great need for more universal design, i.e. better availability – it is also possible now. So there's been a lot of questions about what these funds actually can be used for. I am pleased that the Committee on Finance has dealt with this matter so quickly, and I will now ensure that a round table is drawn up so that it is clear whether the funds can be used, because there is liberality in that field, and how the reporting should go from the municipalities to the county, and from the counties directly to the department.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1368	It was Steinar Gullvåg's contribution that made me feel a need to take the floor again in this debate. The representative of Gullvåg indicated that what is being adopted today was to solve all the problems for Norwegian fishing industry, and that Korsberg had not got this. I just want to quote from a press release that the Association of Fisheries and Aquaculture has sent out today – the title of that press release is ‘Not in the Goal’: «Acts such as guarantees of operational credit, bond arrangements and warranties via the sales laws are obviously positive in these times of crisis. The problem is that the government has not yet delivered where the problems are greatest. We still lack export finance on seafood as other industries have received from the government. We have discussed this with the Ministry several times, and it is important that we continue to work actively and constructively with this, says Ystmark, Director of Enterprise Development in FHL.’ In other words, someone actually sees that there is a crisis in the fishing industry. The fact that the Labour Party spokesperson on fisheries has not seen it surprises me to the extent that there are not so many constructive contributions that have come from that point of view. That the government has also not come up with solutions, I think it is rather sad, but really not very surprising, because at a meeting in Bergen a few days ago, the State Council of Helga Pedersen came up with a proposal to double the statutory export fee for white fish. At a time when the industry is in crisis, she comes up with measures to further increase the burden on the whitefish industry! It's as wrong as it counts. It also testifies that the representative Steinar Gullvåg is not alone in failing to understand the situation of the fishing industry. So neither does the Council of State Helga Pedersen. It's sad!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1382	The representative Robert Eriksson of the Progress Party is trying to suggest that the Progress Party has cut the budget roughly, which will provide more staff in Nav, which can help people in a difficult situation. When I detect this, he tries to suggest that it's ‘numbering’. That's how the person who knows quite a lot about that sail. Because we can calculate. While the Progress Party has in its budget an increase in this chapter, it is due to the fact that there has been a smoking in terms of the expenditure to be allocated to the health refund area, which the Progress Party will not place where the majority has placed it. So that's 339.7 million. kr that the Contracting Party has moved from this entry. That means if you add these numbers, it's 260 million. Every day the Nav budget is cut to posts and not least to training in this department — and it is now very important that people who work in this department receive training. It's a demanding job they're facing, and some of what we know is that there's a need for more skills and more training. In particular, these positions are needed. If we use the same numbers as the government has used when it has increased the number of jobs for Nav in the action package, the Progress Party arrangement for Nav over the last two years will be a cut of well over 1,000 jobs. I would like to say that it is a scheme for the complete chaos of the unemployed and pensioners and for those who work in Nav. I think the Progress Party could be adults enough to admit this. It's black on white in the budget that this money has moved, and it gives a cut in this post, something I'm saying. Last year, the Progress Party dared to show off these cuts. This year they haven't even been brave enough to show what they're doing. I think it's quite eye-catching for a party that has money for almost everything else between heaven and earth, that they've seen the need to get out of this department in such a difficult situation as it is in. But I realize that they're pulling out now and I'd rather people don't know about it. But I think people should notice that the Progress Party has a policy that says that Nav would have been in a completely impossible situation now that the situation on the labour market has deteriorated.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1389	I should like to thank you very much for the floor in this debate! Torbjørn Hansen was passed twice on the list of speakers The financial crisis comes from outside and is not the result of strange circumstances. Fortunately, for the political environment in Norway, it is natural to stand together and work across the party boundaries to find solutions that prevent unnecessary job losses and activities. However, the right has for good reason criticised the Government for having an ideological side in the choice of instruments and a lack of action, in particular in the budgetary procedure last autumn. I would remind you that the only direct budget measure that thousands of businesses actually get from the Government is tax increases. Enterprises with profits in 2008 and which do not have large machine investments, and indeed thousands of them, note that the Government in 2009 thought it was perfect timing to increase the wealth tax on working capital. It's also a good opportunity to remind the government parties that we're about to have four years lost in business policy. The action rule should provide more money for growth-enhancing tax incentives, for investment in knowledge and infrastructure. On the contrary, the Government has weakened its competitiveness every year. It marks employees in today's situation. As others have noted, the financial crisis has particularly hit the fishing industry. The fishing industry is particularly important in parts of the country which do not have the broadest nutritional basis. The impact of lay-offs and redundancies in small coastal areas is heavier than in areas where conversion capacity is better. That is why many of us have wondered where it was of the Government's measures for the fishing industry. In the case we are dealing with today, excellent measures for the fishing industry with its absence. Many in industry and along the coast have experienced a reasonably strange lack of attention from the Government in relation to the specific challenges of the fishing industry. So the right has gone out really hard for this particular industry. We have promoted all the proposals made by the industry's major organisations. At the bottom of the discussion of this matter, as late as February 6, the government finally came on the track and created a separate guarantee scheme for the fishing industry. This is supported by the right, but in addition we will increase the pressure on the marketing of fish and the lead grant as a temporary crisis response. I agree with Bendiks H. Arnesen from the Workers' Party that the use of money to market fish is a good measure these days. Here he'll find a proposal from the Right to spend $25 million. kr more for the marketing of fish. The right has also picked up the fact that fishermen need support to get fish delivered to a reception that is actually open but is a bit away. Therefore, the Government’s fisheries policy will see something as unusual as a proposal from the Right on extras for a 10 million lead grant. kr. These small but important extra appropriations, I believe, could also have had the government parties engaged enough to go into it. The government needs to be more closely involved in the fishing industry in the time we have ahead of us. We must use the measures that are possible to limit the crisis along the coast and mitigate the pressures of the international financial crisis against the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1413	The representative of SV Thorkildsen felt the need to spread oaths and blunders over the Progress Party also in this debate and goes as usual crusades against anyone who does not talk about the climate in the same way as SV. Her installation is usually characterized by doomsday scenarios around climate impacts. Instead of spending a lot of time talking about what's good, sensible approaches to cutting CO2 emissions, she spent a lot of time telling me how bad the progress party is, which doesn't think like SV. She thus ignores the significant green element in the alternative crisis package of the Progress Party. If one ignores the rhetoric, a set that would have the effect of the proposals of the Progress Party within energy, within renewable measures and within infrastructure would have a greater climate impact, much lower CO2 emissions than can be seen in the Government’s crisis package. The Progress Party proposes that we provide guarantees to all those who want to invest in renewable energy to get green certificates when that system starts. It will remove the uncertainty that exists today regarding the framework conditions for the renewable energy industry and that has resulted in many projects being put at risk today. The government must respond to why a single new wind power project has not been launched under the red-green government despite all rhetoric. The government must respond to why all sectoral organisations in the power sector believe that it does not deliver as expected, and that one thus does not realize many of the projects located there. The Progress Party wants to introduce a green depreciation rule for renewable energy investments, which allows one to write of 30 pst. the costs incurred during the first four years. I don't see that the government has done the same thing, but the Energy companies' national association says that it will provide a significant investment in renewable energy. We want to expand Enova's program to equalise all the technologies, which will give us a lot more for the money we spend on Enova. The government grants more money to Enova – it is not very controversial. So we see that they give money to programs that today are unable to spend the money they have already received. It's necessarily not very effective. I record that SV, and the Government, do not have hydropower as an important measure for renewable energy. It is not mentioned in one word in the crisis package, despite the fact that it is the best and most environmentally friendly power generation we have. Within a few, the government talks a lot about using the crisis package for energy efficiency improvement, but there is therefore no requirement from the Government that this should be implemented to trigger subsidies to municipalities. That is what the Progress Party wants, and we will actually use the tax system to stimulate the use of energy efficiency in this package. So we don't get any support there, and then I think SV should start talking about what measures are good, rather than just talking about the topic and blaming everyone else when they don't get it on their own.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1434	Robert Eriksson has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1437	I understand that it fits SV's image very badly that we have totally granted more money than the sitting government has done. When Karin Andersen went through this, she failed, among other things. mentioning that we have created our own new post for the reactivation of the disabled, she did not mention that we spend a lot of money on other kinds of actions within Nav – so she should have taken the entire calculation to the end. Based on the health report statistics, Nav currently has over 1000 year-olds. The Progress Party believes that there is a potential for efficiency. Yes, we want to put measures in place so that people are at work and handle applications. I think many of the users today would have been happy that people in the Nav system had treated applications instead of being sick. The sick leave rate is much higher in Nav than it is in the public sector otherwise, and I think it should be right to focus on it. But it is clear that SV prefers these people to be ill-appointed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1446	Yes, it would have been very nice if the sick leave in Nav had gone down, but it is hardly realistic if there are 1,200–1,300 fewer employees in Nav in the future than it is today. That would be the reality of the budget of the Progress Party. So they're moving the health benefits from the Health Directorate - 339 million. kr – to the State of Labour and Welfare, and comes out in plus with only 79 million. kr. That means 260 million. kr is gone. There are jobs in Nav, there are jobs that Nav needs, not least in order for the employees to be able to learn their new job, which is demanding, and for them to have a working day that prevents them from getting sick. I am at least glad that the Progress Party now admits that they are doing this. In addition, when they say that they intend to add even more tasks to this department – fewer employees and many more tasks – I believe that the result will not be less sick, but even more sick, and the complete chaos in Nav. I think that's what people should do. Then there is one thing I need to say, relating to the package of measures and to the funds now spent on upgrading constructions – also in the transport sector. Energy efficiency requirements are introduced, and the measures we are now taking must meet environmental and climate requirements. But there's one more thing that it's important to remember, and that's what everyone has to contribute to and help with. There are requirements for availability. A lot of what we build is built so that people with different types of disabilities can't use the solutions. Now we have a new law that applies from 1 January this year, against discrimination and for the accessibility of people with disabilities. All these changes to the Law on Planning and Building are not yet in place, but everything that is being built will be available. In all the municipalities now do, and in all the state now does, you have to – regardless of whether you have an explicit claim that there are full conversions, etc. – take this into account. We've built, and we've spent so many public dollars building solutions that are completely useless to large sections of the population. Now we have to use every single penny to get solutions that are available and that are not that we have to spend millions, not to say billions, of dollars in later years to fix this again. There is a golden chance of saving money by saving electricity and saving a lot of money by making society as useful to all citizens, with the money now allocated in this package of measures.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1464	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1472	Before Stortinget goes to voting, state councillor Kristin Halvorsen will transfer 1 kgl. the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1479	The size should then be added to the case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1482	During the debate, Mrs Leirstein, on behalf of the Progress Party, has put forward a proposal, no. 72, which relates to the situation in Nav. On the basis of what the Prime Minister said in Stortinget earlier today, I would like to call for this proposal to be sent to the Government without a motion of censure. If this call were not accepted, I would recommend that the representatives of the Government Party – and as many others as possible – vote against the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1489	Now the fate of the proposal was relatively clarified, but the Progress Party still wants to maintain the proposal and get a vote on it. It gives clear signals to solve some of the challenges in Nav, and we could clarify that today, rather than having to wait for a matter from the Government to come in a few weeks, which is going to standard landfill treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1499	The President proposes that the statement by the Minister of Finance at the Stortinget meeting on 26 January 2009 on the package of measures in the context of the financial crisis be annexed to the minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1547	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 70 and 71, from the left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e1847	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 65-69, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e2133	We're taking this vote again – it's about cap. 1330 under proposal No 65.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e2147	It is then voted on the remaining chapters under proposal No. 65 and proposals Nos. 66–69, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e2158	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 64, from the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e2216	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 58 to 63, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e2415	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 56 and 57, from the Right and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e2554	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 52–55, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e2596	The proposals are then put to the vote. 30 to 51, from the Party of Advancement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e3245	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 72, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e3263	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 26-29, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e3439	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 11–25, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e3543	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, and from the Christian Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to abolish the cost framework for the construction of student housing.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e3560	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1–9, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e3710	The proposal for a decision shall then be put to the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-13.ana.ud288e6275	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
