ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e40	At the request of the Committee on Energy and the Environment, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 2 hours and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: Working Party 45 minutes, Progress Party 25 minutes, Right 15 minutes, Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, Christian People's Party 10 minutes, Center Party 10 minutes and Left 10 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and the parliamentary leaders and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e51	As rapporteur, I would like to start by thanking the Committee for its good cooperation. It is with great joy and pride that I can see that after over 70 years of struggle, Marka in Oslo and the surrounding region will finally be protected. 19 municipalities and five counties are affected, and more than 1.2 million. residents. We who love Marka finally get security to protect our most important open-air and recreational area in law. A new map dated 2 April 2009 has now been printed and has been distributed in the hall together with the setting. Part of what we're doing in the Biggest can fade out small. Much can also be easily reversed by a new majority after an election. But then it happens that we get the opportunity to write history. Today is one of those days: we're writing history! On Monday, we passed the Marka Act on the committee. In the hiking hall we were met by cheery representatives for outdoors and sports. Some of them have been working for decades to get a law of law. Erik Sture Laarre is one of them. The father of the Marka Act turned 95 on Tuesday and has worked for the Marka border and the Marka Act since 1945! It's great to meet people like him in a moment like this, great to join in setting the stage for a struggle that has been going on since the 1930s. For the first time, we protect an area for the sake of outdoor life. We protect to be able to use – in a sustainable way, well to notice. Limits shall be set for commercial activities which allow only those with the ability and willingness to pay to participate. This is important because we have seen many times how commercial players have seized the most attractive areas and thus displaced people most from them. With regard to the protection of open air areas, we are introducing a completely new principle. For decades, we have had the right to protect important natural areas in the interests of all species other than humans. It is also important that some of the most beautiful pearls in the Marka can now be protected from destructive interference, because they mean so much to many people's natural experiences, sail whether there are neither rare nor endangered species there. We call it an adventure forest. Outdoors, natural experiences and sport will have a particularly important place in the new law. Traditional industries such as agriculture and forestry have contributed to the maintenance of Marka’s valuable cultural landscape. Sustainable use for other purposes, such as agriculture and forestry, will continue to be important for the preservation and further development of Marka as an attractive and accessible open-air area. Through balanced multi-use, we will permanently ensure Marka for the benefit of public health. Oslo and Omland Outdoor Councils have been central to what we can call the Battle of Marka. OOF was formed in 1936. As early as 1938, they presented a proposal on the boundary. ‘At this time plans were in existence, which seem to be totally incomprehensible today’, wrote the Evening Post on Tuesday, for example. major roads. The battles of Marka have been many. The demonstration at the City Hall Square in Oslo in 1946 is probably the largest Norwegian ever, with over 30,000 people. In 1965, the Planning and Building Act made it possible for public authorities to regulate the areas. In 1976, the same year that I was born, the Ministry of the Environment produced a draft law on the environment. Gro Harlem Brundtland's government put a bill in front of Stortinget in the spring of 1981, but the matter was not dealt with before the elections. After the election, the government drew Willoch's bill. Maybe some people have been a little nervous about whether the rough road towards the law of the land would get the story to repeat itself this time. But we did it! There is a broad majority in favour of the Marka Act. Everyone, except the Party of Advancement and the Right, is satisfied with the coming of the law and characterises it as ‘a milestone for outdoor life in Norway’. I would nevertheless stress that although the Right does not cheer for the law, they have informed me that they will vote for it at the end when the proposal to send it back to the Government has fallen. We're glad! As rapporteur, I believe that the Ministry of the Environment has been both responsive and attentive to the hearing bodies. This line has been followed up by the majority of the Committee in its deliberations, where we made three changes to the legislative text, which has been widely welcomed by the Committee. The first concerns the purpose of the law: the main aim is now to promote and facilitate outdoor life, natural experience and sport. These three considerations we have chosen to equate to eliminate any doubt that sport is a very important purpose of the Marka Act. However, the promotion and organisation of sport is limited to sport which can be incorporated into the Marka. We believe it is important to limit to large sports facilities of a nature or size that could lead to conflict with other sports or outdoor activities and natural experiences. Assessments will vary with the location of the Marka site and the existing site. We clearly stress the need for children and young people to use Marka, and for their opinions to be heard, in line with the Children's Convention. Personally, I have had two trips in Tryvann together with the Snowboard Association, including: together with Marianne Marthinsen of the Workers' Party, to show that we don't want to preserve the use of Marka, but that on the contrary we want to facilitate that children learn to love Marka, as they say in the Snowboard Association. There is a clear need for space on the ground, and there is widespread understanding in the Committee on the Need for Upgrading and Enlargement of the Trywater Area. I would also like to stress that the law is not meant to make the processes heavy and bureaucratic, but to stop what is undesirable in Marka. We've also fallen to change something on the boundary, and we've exempted the "islands" around the Langen watercourse from Marka. New non-agricultural activities cannot initially be established in Marka and existing activities cannot initially be extended. At the same time, serving places are an important part of the outdoor offer and are therefore in line with the purpose of the law. We have also stated that we do not want agriculture to be subject to the general construction ban in Marka, but in order to achieve a comprehensive management of Marka, it is necessary for the County of Oslo and Akershus to deal with all complaints within the scope of the law, including agricultural matters. This is also an important point of the law by ensuring consistent management. I think it will also help to create a predictability that the users of Marka will appreciate. Under the law, there is room for more differentiated assessments of sub-areas after the ordinary use of the Planning and Building Act. It is important that the planning part of the Planning and Building Act be used in conjunction with the construction ban of the Marka Act. This will make the framework and provisions for adaptation and management more nuanced. In addition, this will help to provide the basis for territorial assessments and zoning frameworks. These rules will be of importance for maintaining established communities in Marka, for example: in Maridalen and Sørkedalen. A review of the current land legislation will be carried out under the Forestry Act. The majority of the Committee emphasises the need to rapidly put in place new forest regulations, and we ask the Government to give priority to this. Finally, I would like to say that through the new Marka Act, the Storting focuses on the importance of urban areas for people's well-being and health. Most Norwegian cities have urban, urban, urban or whatever they call it. The new Planning and Building Act provides municipalities with a good tool to secure their urban areas, including: improving the possibility of inter-municipal planning, increasing the emphasis on regional planning, the possibility of taking into account zones and the possibility of limiting access to change parts of the area area of the municipal plan. Land use in cities and agglomerations has increased strongly in the last ten years. However, in the Oslo region, the land border has clearly contributed to the dampening of land use growth. Now this limit is fixed. I want to congratulate the majority of the committee – then I will include everyone, except the Advance Party, who is primarily against the whole law – with the day. I recommend the Committee's attitude.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e85	For the first time, it is now possible – through its own law – to take care of an area of outdoor life, natural experiences and sport. Oslomarka is the country's most important open-air and recreational area. The new Marka Act creates a time gap for the management of Marka and for 1.2 million people who have Marka as their nearest major tour area. It's great to see that on a great Sunday in Oslo, there are up to 250,000 people who use Marka to ski. But I think I'm going to draw some history here as well, and just mention how important this is also in a historical context. The law was promoted to the Stortinget already in 1981 by an unknown government at the time, where Gro Harlem Brundtland was present. It was withdrawn after the government change, by Willoch, among others, and Willoch stated to the Newspaper on 20 March 2002: ‘Break limit. However, in order to ensure enough green lungs in the urban areas, it is necessary to slaughter a sacred cow – the marshall.” The law has been under pressure. I would also like to quote something else, by a prominent party politician here in Stortinget, Carl I. Hagen. I just mentioned this, because it was still breaking away. He said to Dagbladet on 31 August 2000: «Building dwellings in Sørkedalen and Maridalen. [[...]] You've heard the spouse shit. Let's do a little bit of a mark. In Oslo, there's room for a city of Tokyo's size. We have plenty of areas for natural experiences. Fly across the East, and you'll see how good it is. You can see the same in the archipelago, where there will also be room for many more cabins." I quote this because there are many who over the years have tried to move in this story and say that Marka we just have to take more and more of, and the public should not have as much access as before. But for us from the Working Party and the Red-Green Government, there are four main pillars that are important. There is long-termity and predictability of the borders of Marka. The second is uniform administration – instead of 19 administrative systems that now exist. The third is the ban on major interventions. And the fourth is the protection of outdoor life, new ways to protect, and the experiences should be for the most people. For those of us who are concerned with protecting the rights of all persons and the simple and nature-friendly outdoors, including the basis of outdoor life, it is important now to have a uniform law, not least because it has now been made clear that the main purpose of the law is to promote sport, outdoor life and to facilitate natural experiences in Marka. For the first time in Norwegian history, there will now be a separate authority to protect areas for outdoors. Areas that, due to natural experience values, have specific qualities of open air life will now be able to be protected. The rapporteur was in these areas. All of this can be protected against destruction and other measures that change the total nature experience for most people. It's to take care of Marka's future that we do it this way. The Marka Act legislates the mark border and ensures the area for sport, for outdoors and natural experiences for the future. The law will prevent the construction of new housing blocks, large hotels, four-field motorways or commercial parks in Marka, for example. start mining operations in new areas. In Marka, open-air life is to be given priority, although, of course, rational agriculture is still to be managed and we are still to have viable communities. In addition, Marka’s cabins shall be capable of being maintained and modernised in accordance with certain rules. And it's still the individual municipality that's going to deal with the building applications. They only get a new environmental law to deal with. Measures that do not affect the open air and the natural environment may be implemented without prejudice to the Land Act. Of course, repairs, maintenance and other measures will continue to be possible in existing buildings and installations. Loops can still be maintained, including distant stumps and stones. Such measures do not require an application, which has been widely discussed by many. It will now also be possible to plan for the construction of new sports facilities or for the development, upgrading and expansion of existing sports facilities as long as these facilities are in place in Marka. Examples of plants that can be renewed are Holmenkollen, Linderudkollen, Grefsenkleiva, Schallrud ski facilities and Tryvann Winter Park. The Marka Act facilitates the construction, expansion and modernisation of ground facilities and easier places to serve outdoors and sports. The aim of the Marka Act is to facilitate outdoor activities and sport. This can't be done without the groundrooms. There are as mentioned many users and actors in Marka. In order for these interests to have good co-existence, the Marka Act now opens up to the creation of a Marka Council. The Marking Council shall have an Ombudsman’s function in Marka and shall be a common platform for Marka’s users and actors. Representatives of outdoors, sports, residents, cabin owners and agriculture will have a natural place in the Council. This is important in order to ensure that the area is multi-use, one might say. The Marka Act puts an end to the expansion pressure we have seen against urban land areas in the last decades, while ensuring good conditions for outdoor life and sport. The law thus constitutes a milestone for outdoor life, in line with the law of the open air, and will in future be one of our most important environmental laws. Complete administration is also ensured by the Ministry of the Environment, the highest administrative authority under the law, and the County of Oslo and Akershus become the complaint authority for all the 19 municipalities. Although agricultural and forestry measures are not affected by the law, the County of Oslo and Akershus shall also be the complaint authority for municipal decisions in such cases within the land borders. Thus, the population of the Oslo area in future generations can be guaranteed access to invaluable natural experiences in its immediate environment. This law will also have an enormous impact on people's well-being, well-being and health, both physically and mentally, and not least on children's growing-up conditions. I believe that this law will be an important tool in preventing a bit-by-bit degradation of Marka and ensuring good natural experiences for the many different users of Marka, including the generations of the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e129	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e132	For many years, the Oslo Labour Party has been fighting against the construction of high-rise buildings. They have fought against the construction of dwellings in the green areas of the city. They have fought for the protection or conservation of older dwellings and urban gardens. So now it's decided that housing within the landline will be banned for all future. At the same time, the party applauds that Oslo City grows with approx. 20,000 people each year. My question becomes simple: Where does the Workers' Party believe that the Oslo inhabitants of the future will live?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e137	The Oslo residents of the future will live in Oslo. [[Laughter]] That's what the representative asked, where are future Oslo residents going to live? It is still possible to do a lot within Oslo's borders and also in the area around. What is important with this law is that it should have a long-termity and predictability as far as the borders of Marka are concerned. When so many people now have engaged in this matter and for many decades we have tried to sort out the Marka – there has been a craving for putting this in place and for long-term and predictability – we cannot take a bite to the future and say that we need new homes. The dwellings that were intended to be built in Marka can also be traveled elsewhere in an excellent way, and I know that the Municipality of Oslo has plans for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e144	I've heard both speakers say you can't build roads in Marka. National transport plans have recently been submitted, and there are, as far as I recall, some projected roads east of the Oslofjorden. Does it bring with it the correctness, the Nordtun representative gives the impression, that no part of Marka will have road development? Does this also apply to the Klemetsrud-Vevelstad axis, which currently has a European road? Will it not be able to be expanded, and will it not be possible to build the double-track railway in that area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e149	I'm dealing with the law that we're now dealing with, which is going to be practical in the next decades. We clearly say in the law what can actually happen to Marka in the future. I also said in my post that the planning of large motorways in Marka and such things are not applicable. I also see that the vast majority now support this law here in the Stortinget. It gives predictability, and it is planned in terms of road installations and such things. New installations shall not be present in Marka.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e154	Then the President cannot see that more people have asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e157	Let me, before I forget it, promote the proposal we have that is distributed on the pults. When it was not included in the vote, it was due to a slight disagreement within the committee. But now, in retrospect, together with Stortinget's office, I have assessed it there that it is most right of us to promote that proposal. That's what it's all about. Let me start with politics. What we're talking about here, in my opinion, is a law decision that gives a fundamental distrust to local democracy. Today, several of the 19 municipalities that have been affected are deprived of the right to manage up to 2/3 of their area, among others. Norway's most populous municipality and the most populous municipality, namely Oslo. So they lose 2/3 of their own area. It is no surprise that the socialists believe it is better for Erik Solheim and the state to manage these areas than for local politicians to do it. Because in SV, strengthening state power at the expense of both private property and local democracy is fully in line with its own policies and socialist principles. The fact that the Central Party today, with enthusiasm, agrees with this historic proposal, as it is said from the position, is shocking – especially given that the Centre Party's largest group must have agreed, before the presentation, that agriculture should also be included in the construction ban, because it was thus stated in the original proposal by the Ministry of the Environment. Then I have to say, and I hope that we will get a clarification – if we do not get it in the Right post, we will get it at least in the line change – that it surprises me very much to hear in the debate, from the SV representative, that the Right is going to vote for this proposal. With the rhetoric previously put on the table by the local and right-wing politicians in the public debate on this matter, I have to say that it is quite surprising if it is right to vote in favour. It is therefore true that local management of these areas has been regulated for 120 years, and industrial forestry has been operating in these areas for 400 years. So while you've had these things in place, every year over 1 million people have used Marka as an open-air area and a recreational area. I am talking to many local politicians around this country, like many of my colleagues in the Chamber, I am sure, and I feel that more and more local politicians with enthusiasm are talking about how important nature-based outdoor life is to them as politicians. Then I think it's actually that when this has worked for 120 years, there's no reason to believe that this shouldn't work for 120 more years. We also have the Marka Regulation, which gives the Environment Minister Solheim just the opportunity to intervene if things happen that are not in line with national guidelines. In my opinion, further tightening is not necessary. The Committee even points out that just agriculture has helped to open up Oslomarka to the open air. I think I'm going to go as far as to say that the settlement and settlement in Maridalen and Sørkedalen have also contributed to it. But the most important counter-argument against the law is the principle that the majority of the Grand Duchy today gives a fundamental distrust to local democracy. This will not be supported by the Progress Party, and we have also promoted the proposal we have made. However, I would like to point out one clear advantage of protecting Oslomarka, namely that representatives of Oslomakta now feel how state enforcement and responsibility of land management leads to restrictions on urban and industrial development. This has been felt by many large, but poor Norwegian municipalities for many, many years. Now you feel it in Oslo, and I have to say that although I am voting against this law today, I find a little joy in that. State Council Storberget said several times in relation to the government's somewhat clumsy handling of the hijab cause: I don't want to go into the process. But I am willing to go into the process of this matter. For in December, the State Council of Solheim said that this is a gift package for the people of the inner Oslofjord. In January critical voices began to rise. Agriculture, which in the draft consultation would not be directly affected, but which in the proposed legislation was hit by a construction ban, was first out. No problem, and the law will not be changed, said the Council of State. Cottage and villa owners in Marka came to the track as they realized that their ownership of their own houses and cabins was severely weakened by the law of the land because of the construction ban. No problem, and the law will not be changed, said the Council of State. Then came the outdoor and sports interests on the road, which would also have strong restrictions on the organisation of infrastructure for the exercise of just outdoor activities and sport. No problem, and the law will not be changed, said the Council of State. So late in mid-March, the representatives Sande and Thorkildsen of the Evening Post and the Nations stated that the law would not be amended, that, through comments, the necessary considerations should be taken into account, and that there was no need for changes in the law. So – I was almost going to say fortunately – the representative Per Olaf Lundtegen came on the track – and the law was changed for agriculture and outdoor interests in significant respects. I must admit that these changes were clearly for the better, especially for agriculture, but that it was just agriculture and outdoor life and nothing more, still stand. Neither the problem of the puck shop in Hadeland nor the Huken in Oslo is clarified, and not least the relationship with cabin and villa owners in my opinion is very critical. But the changes that have been made very clearly illustrate two things. Although Solheim and I are not always in agreement when we discuss things in this room, I often use to boast of the cleanliness and accuracy of Solheim and the Ministry of the Environment in relation to the job done. There's no reason to do this time, I would say. One could almost be tempted to ask if the Ministry of the Environment has borrowed people from the Ministry of Oil and Energy in this matter – it may well be there. But neither the Ministry of the Environment nor the three major groups of government parties have done the job thoroughly enough. The clear opinions of the media and also the correspondence between the Committee and the Ministry of Environmental Protection also show that. In response from the Ministry of Environment dated 25 March, State Council Solheim said: ‘Modernisation work within the cabins could be carried out without prejudice to the Land Act. Provided that the measure does not significantly override the purpose of the law, etc. I'm sure that's right, but there are some requirements that apply to it. First of all, it is possible to grant a derogation on the basis of Section 15, but ‘can not be exempted from the requirement to draw up regulatory plans in accordance with the Planning and Building Act or other procedural rules. the provisions of the Law on Planning and Building do not apply.’;» [[...]] [[...]] You also refer to § 1-6 of the Planning and Building Act, which lists the following: ‘e.g. construction, demolition, alteration, including modifications of the façade, alterations of use and other measures relating to buildings, structures and structures, as well as land take-offs and alterations of property.’;» These are difficult legal wordings. But in plain text it means that if you live in the Sørkedalen, in the Maridalen, or in one of the 1,500 dwellings or 3,300 holiday homes, and your house or cabin would burn, it will obviously depend on you as the owner to prove that the advantage of building your house or your cabin is clearly greater than the disadvantages of outdoor life, the natural environment and the public interest. I look forward to the proceedings. To put it that way: I hope that we avoid fire in Oslomarka, but I look forward to the proceedings when a builder or a owner of a house will document, and I repeat, there is a clearly greater advantage in building the house or cabin than there are disadvantages to the outdoors, the natural environment and the public interest. I'm excited about what it's like. Fortunately, it is not just me and the Progress Party who claim this. It also makes Advocate General Bjørn Stordrrange, one of the country's leading experts in defence proceedings, among others. in a thought dated March 17th, and also extensively quoted in the Nation on March 21st. So there is a theoretical possibility to drive a single into your driveway, or to set up rails on the porch or to change windows, but it must be after completing a planning process, which in Oslo Municipality costs NOK 100000, and in no municipality under NOK 60000. This will not apply to agriculture. There will be a good part of the outdoor and sport-related measures, and there will be absolutely all measures in existing houses and cabins in Maridalen and Sørkedalen and the other areas inhabited. A total of 4,800 house owners got nothing when Per Olaf Lundtägen and the company changed the law. However, the fraud also says something else. When the Oslo Authority itself discovered that they were threatened by coercive protection and state interference, the pressure was so strong that the Ministry of the Environment was forced to retreat. I also remember the enormous enthusiasm of landowners and local politicians in Trillemarka, for no use. It can be said that when the representative Lundtigen fought for his own voters in Trillemarka, in pig-grown strike in Buskerud, he lost his breath, but when this time he fought for the Oslo power and their interests, at least there is a division within reach – a division that was not within reach in Trillemarka. So to a point that I think is quite important. Over the last few years, the Oslo Earth region has had a huge population growth. And it's going to keep going. According to the Central Statistical Office, the four counties that receive land protection here, some significant areas, especially for Oslo, will receive 285,000 new inhabitants over the next 20 years. The strongest growth in numbers is expected to occur in Oslo and the parts of Eastfold and Akershus that are closest to Oslo, i.e. the municipalities that are now mainly covered by the protection. Growth has been stronger in recent years outside Oslo than in Oslo, but Oslo is anyway the main generator of this growth. These 285,000 people should both have houses to live in, a job to work on and infrastructure to get to and from home and home. Now, when the municipality is deprived of the right to manage two-thirds of its area, it makes it more difficult, for the first time in urban development, and for the second time, it will obviously increase the pressure on the food market. And then I ask the Center Party to listen – because here we are talking about the best food soil in Norway. This helps the Center Party to increase its pressure. It's hard for me to understand. When you also know that SV is largely opposed to any regulation of houses with over three floors, I do not understand, like the representative Tybring-Gjedde, where the government believes that these 285,000 should live, work, or how to get between bopel and work. So I'll take a final point. The NTP was mentioned instead. If there are large enough transport expansions in the East, we will have another debate, but there is therefore a not insignificant number of new developments in both road and rail in Oslo. For that you need a lot of steel and concrete, but you don't need at least huge quantities of pucks. You have the opportunity to find it in both the Huken here in Oslo and in Hadeland. Both of these areas are now being protected. It will theoretically be possible with further operation for both one, five and ten years, but the volumes I'm talking about cannot be realized with the limit that remains the basis of today's proposal. For SV, this should be a small paradox. Because what you're actually doing here is making sure that you have to transport 5 billion tonne-kilometres of pucks more than you would have done if you had allowed continued operations on Hadeland and on the Huken. And one can quickly calculate that transporting 5 billion tonne-kilometres of pick leads to large greenhouse gas emissions, but also to particulate matter and traffic growth in the most populous areas of the East. I can't understand that can be good environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e221	The representative Tord Lien has taken up the proposal he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e226	The representative Lien's posts were of very little joy, but I had not expected it from the Progress Party either. They're voting against the whole law, to get it out of the world. They've done the same thing when we've had questions about the beach zone, etc. There is a red thread going through the policies of the Progress Party, and that is pure ideology. It is to do everything in its power to facilitate access to and free use of certain areas by the public. And I have to ask Tord Lien, when he's talking about this densely populated area: it's probably going to be densely populated, but aren't those who live there going to have the opportunity to have good access to open spaces in their vicinity, be it on the beach or in the field?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e231	It may be that the representative Nordtun hears badly. That suggests at least that, because I stressed very strongly that, first of all, I believe that the rules of the market are a very effective tool. I have noted that, despite the fact that these frail local politicians have been driving Oslo for 120 years, it is a considerable interest and enthusiasm for Oslomarka as it is today. On that basis, I find that if it has worked for 120 years, I am sure that Erling Lae is at least as well suited as the State Council for Solheim. That is why the Progress Party is voting as we do today. This is not an attack on either nature or outdoor interests, as the representative Nordtun tries to make it. Had he heard after, he had heard that I said I thought it was okay that we also had a certain opportunity for the state to be in and correct any dissections.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e236	I record that the representative Lien is mothering something in his response to Tore Nordtun. But the picture, as it is presented in both the main plot and the policy that is also being pursued around the East, where there is considerable pressure in the open air areas, is that the Progress Party is not in line with the interests of the general public and the people most, but rather is a party to the special interests, which seems to be a good thing to take a bit-by-bit reduction of the areas where people depend most on in order to enjoy nature, enjoy the outdoors, enjoy their neighbourhoods. My soul comes from Westfold, and there we have the same problem as we have seen in press areas in other parts of the country, especially in the South and East. It'll be a bit-by-bit reduction as long as you don't take a complete hold. We have done that with regard to the beach zone, to major protests from the Progress Party. Now we've done that with the law of the field. The big, wide organizations are cheering for this precisely because they see that there is a need for a government grip around this. Doesn't the Progress Party at all see that this is necessary?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e243	Now I have so far said what I meant about the Oslo power earlier today, but what I should have known was how long the Progress Party has run in Oslo. It's at least for many years, and there hasn't been very massive interference in Oslomarka under the leadership of the Progress Party. In Vestfold, I and the representative Thorkildsen have been and seen that there are some unfortunate things that have been done. I think we can agree on that. Now it's probably not that the Progress Party has run Westfold in much of the times that there were unfortunate things happening there. But that's something I can't understand. The markers will take care of the large lines. The law today forbids homeowners in Maridalen to drive pucks in their own drive-up without having a regulation plan for it. How it takes care of the interests of outdoors, I don't understand.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e252	Let me first just briefly comment on Tord Lien's reference to the Central Party's large-scale group's treatment of the relationship between construction ban and agriculture. The conclusion he drew there was a direct misstatement from the representative, Lien, and he would like to focus on using a little more of the political weight to express himself about things he had some more insight into. Then I became curious, because the representative Lien expresses concern about the pressure on the food soil. And that's important. It's a concern we share in the Center Party, and we've had a policy where it's an independent goal to sustain the food world around the country. In debates on that policy, including: Tord Lien's party has been told that it is not an independent goal to sustain the amount of food that we have in our country today. So the question is simply: is this a change in the Progress Party's policy? Is it not an independent goal to sustain the amount of food we have in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e261	Let me first address my misunderstanding with regard to the treatment of the Centre Party, or non-treatment, of this law before it came. I think at least we can agree that 14 days ago, the representative Sande said in the Norwegian press that there is no need to make any change to the law, and that the construction ban on agriculture could be maintained. So if I'm confused, I feel like the representative Sande has contributed a little bit to making me confused. I'm just sorry about that. When it comes to maintaining the food soil, we're going back to local democracy. It is now up to local politicians in the eastern region to choose either one or the other. So I think it's quite obvious that you have to build higher too, but there's also a lot of resistance from some of Sande's government colleagues to do that. My point is: let local politicians decide this for themselves, and I'm sure we can maintain both the natural interests and the agricultural interests at the same time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e270	The cord shift is over. Before Peter Skovholt Gitmark gets the floor, the president will tell you that it is almost 10:00 p.m. and that the regulatory time is really over. However, the President will propose that the debate be completed – and considered adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e275	The most important first: the right wants a strong protection of the Marka, but the protection must be through use. Marka is a fantastic area for sports, for outdoors and for nature experiences. That makes the whole 75 pst. the population of Oslo uses Marka regularly. The land extends over 19 municipalities, all of which deserve praise for their long-term and over a hundred-year management of the Marka. The same applies not least to farmers and forest users and other landowners. Agriculture in particular has contributed, and still contributes, to the maintenance of Marka’s valuable cultural landscapes, such as: with regard to the maintenance of the routes, ponds, cultural memories and land parcels. Activities and existing housing make Marka more attractive as an open-air area and contribute to ensuring the accessibility of the Marka to the public. A living and active agriculture and forestry is a prerequisite for the preservation and further development of Marka as an attractive and accessible open-air area for more than 1 million people. I would like to say that I react to the Government introducing new concepts, in this case ‘forestry’, without any environmental justification at all. At the same time, I have no problem seeing the importance of protection. Right supports a special protection of up to 1 pst. of the forest area of Marka, which is of particular value for open air life, as long as the forest operation in the other forest areas can be operated without more obstacles than those set by the field code, forest law and a Living Forest standard. This protection should be achieved, as far as possible, on State grounds or in municipal forests and, subsequently, through the use of voluntary protection in private forests. There is an overall opposition that believes that the law on a number of points bears the mark of a lack of preliminary work. Unfortunately, the law as presented is to be regarded as a framework law. It's vague, and it gives extensive interpretation and regulatory access. Let me also point out that the sport is and is treated poorly. An example is that the majority intervenes in the purpose paragraph with ‘sports traditionally practiced in the Marka’. It is clear that it creates uncertainty and interpretative bases. For the right, the law must facilitate increased use of the Marka and not restrict or red tape with regard to current or future use. To the right, as I said at the beginning, it is particularly important that you get a strong protection of Marka, but that Marka must be protected through use. Increased physical activity and outdoor activities are not limited to the possibility of a sustainable use of the Marka. According to the State's chart, there are more than 1,500 housing units with a fixed, year-round residence in Marka. There are also more communities, including: Maridalen and Sørkedalen. In addition, there are over 3000 cabins and holiday homes. They form part of the cultural history of the area, and many are also central to the open-air life of Marka. For the Right, it is obvious that owners of dwellings and holiday homes within the mark-up must have the possibility to maintain and, where appropriate, to rebuild them in line with time needs and to develop their living environment in line with society elsewhere, please note as long as it takes place within the framework of the guidelines for the preservation of cultural memories. I would like to draw up an extract from a consultation statement by Solemskogen well-being: ‘We, as residents of Marka, are concerned that Marka’s qualities are maintained and, where appropriate, strengthened. For most of us, that's exactly why we live there. We also understand that it's important to ensure a complete grip on Marka. However, we are of the opinion that our demand to develop our homes in the same way as prosperity development elsewhere in society is crucial to us, without jeopardizing the peculiar qualities of Marka. We are of the opinion that living and well-off communities will be perceived as enriching by all Mark’s users.’ And on the other hand, ‘For the inhabitants of the Solemskogen, it would be inappropriate and difficult for all measures to be treated as waiver applications to the State. These are measures that do not reduce the current available land area in any area and should therefore be determined by a good regulatory plan. We would strongly recommend that our situation also be taken into account." I fully agree with those points of view. Similar views have also come from Sørkedalen Vel, Maridalen Well, Sørbräten Well and single residents in Sørbräten. The law must not prevent the temporal development or the exercise of non-motorised sport in Marka. Sport is changing, and new generations will have new desires and expectations for facilities and offers in the field of leisure. This must be taken into account in the administration of Marka. Nor should the law stop further development of sport in the periphery. Existing facilities such as Holmenkollen, Varingskollen, Linderudkollen/Grefsenkleiva, Vandrud ski facilities and Tryvann Winterpark must be provided with the possibilities they need for upgrading, modernisation and further development. I am amazed at the letter of the Council of State to the Committee on 4 March this year, where the Council of State cannot respond to whether the Marka Act will prevent the development of Wyller Multiarena in Tryvann Winter Park. I hope the Council of State can clarify that in its article. In the hearing of the law, I asked the municipalities whether the employees had been in the process of setting limits in connection with the law. The answer was an unisonly no. Unfortunately, by letter to the Committee on 4 March, the Council of State fails to answer questions raised by the Committee on whether the municipalities concerned have been consulted in the context of the establishment of the mark limit. Governments write: ‘The contribution of the Communities will thus not be significantly impaired in relation to the initial draft consultation.’ The Council of State also gives its opinion to the Evening Post on 12 March, where, on direct questions from the journalist, he answers: ‘They have no reason for that. They have been heard.’;» In the draft consultation, the municipalities were promised broad involvement in the establishment of the land border and that this was to be determined after the legislative process. In view of that, I find the Council's answers to these questions strange. The Ministry has led the municipalities behind the light by making a final geographical demarcation of Marka, without consultation and public oversight in the municipalities concerned, contrary to what was provided for in the draft consultation. This means that the Right wants to send the law back to the Government for a new treatment. Should that proposal fall, the Right will vote in favour of the law, for the sake of order. For the Right, it is important that the municipalities and all other stakeholders are consulted when the borders are finally set. However, I would like to refer to remarks where there are a number of border changes that the Right already wants to make. It is after input from municipalities and a number of other stakeholders. In particular, the area around the Ila Sanctions Centre and national prisons, as well as the Løvenskiold line – one of the country’s most important shooting routes – is in Bærum, Hobøl areas, and not least the Hukken Puck and asphalt works, and it would be an environmental disaster if one had to lay down, due to a significant increase in transport and suspended particulate matter in the capital. In the case of shooting ranges in particular, the construction ban puts an end to new ones, and it will create problems in modernising and maintaining existing ones. If you are not allowed to upgrade the shooting range in Marka, there will be great consequences not only for the thousands of hunters who depend on maintaining their skills, but also for the shooting range in general, for the police and for some military who depend on the tracks. A general construction ban could also put an end to noise abatement measures, which would benefit residents. I can't understand what the government parties have to earn on several occasions to say no to conversations with the opposition attached to the law, but it must be a majority government option. Let me also deal with all the suggestions that the Right either stands alone or stands with others about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e325	The representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark has addressed the suggestions he made. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e330	The representative of Skovholt Gitmark gives the impression that there has been a security to secure Marka for the future through the previous regulation, and that there have not really been serious issues of conflict around this in recent years. But when this debate on the construction of Marka came up in the election campaign in 2005 – one has to remember that this is not just the municipality of Oslo, it is 19 municipalities – this was hot stuff in Hakadal, on Krokhol, in Ski, at Fossum Use at Bogstadvatten, at the Skytterkollen in Bærum, in Lommedalen, etc. So it's about real things also in recent years. So my question to the representative is: as a value conservative and with knowledge of how Right-wing voters in Oslo use Marka, and want to take care of the Marka for the future, why can't you just agree to put an absolute limit and an absolute sentence through a law? And how can you now risk that possibility by putting forward a proposal to send the case back?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e343	The municipalities that have until now managed the law have managed it in a good way. Let me also say that it is important that the law now opens up in order to protect outdoors. I think that's a positive thing about the law that ultimately makes us vote in favour of the law. It is, as the representative says, precisely value conservative to take care of the area for the future, as our local politicians have so far done in the 19 municipalities. Let me also say that the reason why we want to send the law back is that the department has not done a good enough work related to border fixing. If we look at the environmental concerns related to the Hulken Puck and asphalt works, they are so big that it will be in the environmental interest to exempt that area. For example: The shooting range, which I was inside in my post, and the Lion Shield course in Bærum, there's a new point where it's worth going in and excluding that area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e352	I would first like to provide a little clarification in relation to what the representative of Skovholt Gitmark said about sport. There were comments about what was originally contained, about what has traditionally been practiced in Marka, and that is no longer relevant. So we really don't have to discuss that. But my question really goes on at the performance of the City Council leader of Oslo. Had it been up to him – and as far as the climate he has created in the course of the treatment of the Marka Act – I don't think we would have stood here now and agreed that the Marka Law is good after all. Both the Right and the SV agree on that. The right has chosen not to vote against the law when it is not being sent back. I think that's positive. Is it the case that the Right Mayor of Oslo is overrun? He stated that this was a bureaucratic piece of legislation, and I believe that the representative of Skovholt Gitmark does not agree.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e359	First, I would like to say that it is most relevant to discuss the legislative proposal that came from the Government, although some positive adjustments have now been made to the government parties in relation to it. Let me also say that I find it very problematic that the representatives of the government parties have not been willing to sit down and discuss the law with the opposition. Because I think you could have found some compromises that we both could have lived well with, and got a broader consensus on the law. Let me also say that both Oslo City Councillor and I, as Højres Umweltstalmann, fully share the desire to take care of the Marka for outdoor life, for those who live there, and for those who have nutritional development in the area, but the problem with the law is that it becomes too rigid. The problem with the law is that the municipalities have been led behind the light in relation to the setting of borders. There are too many problematic concerns about the draft law that has now come. I can share the councillor's view that, as presented, this was a bureaucratic machinations.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e366	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e369	It is not I who sits in the Committee of the Christian People's Party, but since this is a public matter and a law that is to be dealt with here first, however, I am delighted to speak on behalf of the Christian People's Party. It is clear that for someone who is elected from one of the states that are most affected by this law, it is – I would say – a brand day. It also, of course, brings out some memories of one who has been taken on tour, in my opinion then, too early, from the Solemskogen via Lilloseter to Sinober. It could be a bit of a steep affair for a four-femur. But it's clear that when the solstice flashed in the distance on Lilloseter, there was a lot you could accept from the uphill. Then, fortunately, it was downhill home. And afterwards, everyone agreed that it had been a nice trip. I'm saying this because there's a lot of feelings about Marka. There are many who have worked for the permanent protection of Marka. I see that many of them are here today, and I want to congratulate many of them on the day. It is clear from the Christian People's Party that we want and have wanted a separate law for Oslomarka. Then we have to say that there have been some strenuous developments since the bill was promoted, and to the final result we have seen today. We have therefore been quite clear from the Christian People's Party on the desire for relatively large changes in some of the paragraphs in order to be able to vote in favour of the law. We have been particularly concerned about taking seriously the input that has come from sport, agriculture, forestry and the municipalities concerned. I have to say that it was a bit alarming that we were able to promote a bill that created such considerable resistance in all these user groups, which was initially favourably aligned with a new law for Oslomarka. On the other hand, we're glad that there has actually been the possibility of a process here in the Storting. With today's government composition, with a majority government, it is cautiously said not in all matters it has let itself be. We're definitely going to have to take on the plus side of the accounting. For us in the Christian People's Party, it is important that we ensure the multi-use management of Marka, where different interests such as outdoor life, sport, the conservation of the natural and cultural environment with cultural memories and sustainable business activities and established housing should have their place. We are not least concerned that the law facilitates increased use of the Marka and does not work restrictively or hermetically in relation to current and future use. That is why we are also pleased that the majority today are changing the purpose paragraph, so that sport is equated with outdoor life and natural experiences for the purposes of the law. This has been central to us in the Christian People's Party and is actually decisive so that we can now vote in favour of the law of the Stortinget. In our view, the original purpose paragraph opened up to an excessively large interpretation room as to which sporting activities were to be approved in Marka. Formulaions such as ‘naturally fit’ and ‘traditionally exercised’ provided for a goodwill and positive interpretation in the department, and this cannot always be foreseen for all future. It is therefore good that these wordings have now changed. With the new purpose paragraph, we assume that the uncertainty associated with the temporal development of sport and sports facilities in the peripheral zone has been eliminated. I could also encourage the Council of State to confirm that the law now exists, for example. may open the planned extension of Tryvann Winterpark. I am aware that applications are not accepted on a standing footing, but how to initially look at those kinds of applications, I hope the Council of State can say something about it. It would be of importance to many. At the same time, we would like to see changes in Section 9 on path and path organisation. Among other things, the Ski Association has made it clear here that there will still be difficult interpretations in the law as to which path and path work will require planning. As we know, planning is not a free affair. We hope that the law is exercised so that the Ski Association actually gets the opportunity to make both changes and upgrades of runs, even if it had to lead to a certain movement of mass and other basic work. The Christian People's Party wants, as I was about to do, a multi-use policy for Marka. We were therefore quite surprised that the Government had chosen to include agriculture in the general ban on construction measures in its legislative proposal. This was contrary to what had been laid down in the draft consultation. In the hearing in the Committee, there was also clear feedback from agriculture that the legislative proposal would make it almost impossible for many to engage in time agriculture within the field. Both industry and residents in the Sørkedalen and Maridalen argued that the legislative proposal could lead to the weathering of existing communities and the re-growth of the cultural landscape. We are therefore pleased that government parties have also agreed to amend the legal text at this point, so that agriculture is exempted from the general ban on construction measures in Marka. This change is also essential for us to vote in favour of the law in the hall today. Then we would like to see the government parties – and I might be a little surprised that the Center Party has not promoted this – come to our attention in terms of compensation for the financial loss caused by the specific protection of open air areas. We in the Christian People's Party believe that the rules on compensation laid down in the Marka Act should be coordinated with the new protection categories developed in the new Nature Diversity Act, after its adoption in the Stortinget. Then we have to say that the consultation process around this law is not an example for follow-up. The draft consultation established that the geographical scope of the law on the land should not be defined directly by law. On the contrary, all the municipalities concerned were suggested that the border should be set in a regulation based on the law. Before a decision could be taken, proposals for the final land border were to be submitted to consultation and to the public review in the municipalities concerned. But when the law came, the department left this and set the mark line directly in Section 2 of the Act without the advertised consultation in the relevant municipalities. They have therefore not been given an opinion on perhaps one of the most central areas of the law until it was actually sent to Stortinget. In the hearing that the committee had, I think it was the case that all the local authorities present expressed a very strong dissatisfaction that they had not been given the opportunity to comment on the geographical delimitation of the law. With this in mind, I must say that it is surprising, perhaps also at the border of arrogant, that the Council of State maintains that the legislative proposal is within the framework of the draft consultation and the hearing opinions received. The Council of State has even said that the municipalities ‘have been heard’. I think a lot of municipalities have a little trouble understanding that. The Christian People's Party has therefore made proposals in the vote, together with the Right, that paragraph 2 relating to the establishment of a border should not be taken into account today, but that decisions should be postponed pending the hearing of the border proposal in the municipalities concerned. In conclusion, I would like to address what is my main point, namely that we are very pleased with the legislative proposal that is being discussed today and that we are going to take decisions on later. At the same time, in our opinion, it is not an independent argument that this should be a kind of first law for urban areas elsewhere in the country. There has been a strenuous journey from the bill came, but as I said in a slightly transferred sense, I think everyone – mostly, at least – will now agree that this has also been a ‘fine trip’ legally.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e403	Let me start here: Physical activity is an important factor for good health. Increased activity through sport and outdoor life increases quality of life and improves health. Spatial planning will therefore be an important measure to ensure that these qualities are available. The reduction of the central green area and the densification and extension of the press area will provide fewer areas for prevention. Area is not an infinite resource. We humans have our best experiences in encounters with other people, in encounters with nature and with culture. For the Centre Party, it is important to ensure meeting places for these meetings – arenas and rooms for experience, recreation and activity, or to search for quiet, whether indoors or outdoors. The mark is just such a space where there is nature, but where there is also culture and traces of use over hundreds of years – and activity. The centre party wants a living Oslomark, an Oslomark that has sports activities too large and small, as many searches to experience outdoor life, which has an active agriculture and forestry, and which, not least, has living communities. Securing such areas is particularly important in the vicinity of large population concentrations. We need to ensure that the most accessible areas for agriculture, nature and outdoor life are accessible, close to their cages. It is important for the centre party that a flag law does not add a protection that causes Marka to lose its value through re-growth and maturity. We are forced to take care of and use the cultural landscape and the natural qualities, so that future generations can experience the qualities that we ourselves have experienced. This requires active use, development and organisation, not exclusion. The centre party believes that agriculture, nature and outdoor life – the LNF approach – provide a good framework for such management. Agriculture, forestry, outdoors, sport and the buses and cabins themselves in Marka have been crucial to ensure exactly what Oslomarka is valued for. Of course, the laws must be practiced in such a way that the various sports and outdoor activities, agriculture and forestry and the living and beautiful communities we have in the Marka can develop in time and positively in the years to come. The central party has received many input from the municipalities in which Marka extends, where one has expressed concern that the limits laid down in the laws have been set in such a way that it does not fully harmonize with the thoughts of the municipalities for the future development of the area. The Central Party is pleased that the Council of State, by letter to the municipalities, has determined that he wishes to dialogue with the municipalities around the borders and that adjustments are possible, preferably in connection with planning processes. The possibility of such adjustments shall not be materially weighted in relation to the original listener draft. In particular, many entries have come from the municipality of Ski. I can mention that the Ski Center Party arranged a public meeting on the situation around the Langen area. There was great local involvement in this meeting, and the majority in the Committee have agreed on several of the recordings from Ski, through concrete changes. For the Centre Party, it has been important to stress that adjustments should focus on the fact that also outside the boundaries of individual municipalities are often valuable areas such as land cultivation, cropland and wetlands. Finally, the boundary setting must have the aim in mind to avoid increasing pressure on such valuable areas. The central party considers that it is necessary to prevent construction measures which are in direct conflict with the objective of the law and in conflict with the objective of selling Marka as an LNF area. It is important to clarify that there are such measures against which the construction ban is targeted. The central party believes that the legal text, with the important changes made by the majority of the committee, and the framework made by the committee through comments, is in support of this. Agriculture is not now covered by the ban on construction, and sport is now part of the purpose of the laws. Thus, facilities and loops that are not in conflict with their purpose shall be capable of being realised. Let me also note that it is good that the law states that the rule when clearing loops and paths is that this should be done in cooperation with the landowner. The centre party argued that the interaction between landowners, business interests, outdoor and sports organisations, municipalities and not least those who live and live their lives in this area must be underlined and strengthened by their active participation in the administration of Marka through the Council of Marka. In Markalova, it is underlined that it may be appropriate to provide additional protection for some areas of Marka. In the proposition it is suggested to apply about 1 pst. of Marka. In this connection, the question of compensation has been discussed, and the proposition states that economic losses in this form of protection may be required to be replaced in accordance with general legal principles. It is important for the Centre Party to stress that this does not exclude full compensation, in line with what is paid for the creation of a nature reserve, but it will depend on the assessments made in the individual areas and the level of restriction imposed. The centre piece represents the setting that this represents.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e433	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e436	In his reply to me, the representative arrested me, so I got to do the same. The fact that there is to be voluntary in the case of line loop construction is not true. Section 9 states that the County of Oslo and Akershus can decide on a case-by-case basis that interventions under the second and fourth subparagraphs – i.e. the construction of loops – can be carried out without the prior consent of the landowner. I noticed that the representative Sande was most concerned about telling me what limitations it should be in the exercise of this law, and I am so pleased about that. But in the Center Party program there are many praises for property and local democracy. At the same time, the representative Thorkildsen calls this a historic day. Is it true that the Centre Party is for local self-government and private ownership only in small central party-driven municipalities in Norwegian high-mountain areas? Or does the representative Sande think that this may not be such a historic day that the representative Thorkildsen expresses?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e443	In fact, it is quite right, as the representative Lien says, that a law that we adopt today reduces local self-government in those municipalities. It has also protected other places in the country, with and without the support of our respective party. It also makes the earmarks that the Progress Party puts up in some areas that are today a municipal welfare area. It also helps to reduce local self-government. Sometimes this bigizing decision that just does it. As a rule, the central party has the right to apply to the local self-government. Then, by some welfare arrangements and by some values, it's right that those decisions are taken at a different level, either at regional or at national level.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e450	In a consideration, Bjørn Stordrange writes the following: ‘Minister for the Environment, Erik Solheim, has issued opinions which are not in accordance with the actual content of the Act. In part, opinions and the actual content of the law are significant.’» Is Erling Sande satisfied and comfortable with the fact that such a respected lawyer places this kind of question mark on the rhetoric of the Council of State and the actual content of the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e461	Majority and others have drawn up a debate on the comments in the setting, and the text of the law is proportionate to each other, and how strongly the comments become when the legal text is interpreted later. Recordings from Stordrange and others have just contributed to the fact that the Committee's multiplicity has made certain changes and clarifications of the law. In this way, this has been a good committee work, because one has made important changes and changes that have made this law better.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e466	I note that the representative of the Central Party clearly and unequivocally states that the law has been improved through the work of the Committee. I guess of the things the representative is satisfied with are improved, is that it is no longer a construction ban on agricultural activity. How was it possible for a government where the centre party sits, to present a law that allowed for the limits and created uncertainty related to future agriculture in this area, and thus also uncertainty related to the valuable role of agriculture in relation to nature and cultural development in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e471	It's been a big commitment both inside and outside the Center Party to adjust the laws. One of the things that has been thematically addressed is construction bans and agriculture, another is sport and the relationship to the purpose paragraph of the laws. I think the process we have had in the committee has been good. I think we have made changes in both of these areas that make laws better, and that are entirely in line with the decision made by the Centre Party at its group meeting, and what is the Central Party's view when it relates to construction measures in relation to agriculture and construction bans, and what goes on the sport and the purpose paragraph.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e478	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e481	Let me start with what's most important, and what's the most important title today, is that it's a historic and important law to be passed today. There are many people who have fought for a long time to get to the point we're at today. Their perseverance and their contribution have been of great importance, and the commendation brought to them by these present fires and to others today is well deserved. I would also like to point out that many important recordings have come from interest and user groups that have great pleasure and benefit from Marka's qualities. Their input has been of great importance to the work of the Committee and to the final result currently available. It's the sum of these recordings that makes us stand today with a law that not only gets the support of the government parties, but that brings together wider support and thus makes the decision we're going to make today even more significant. So it's not the government's arrangement that created this platform, but the process that has been associated with the treatment in Stortinget. The starting point of the left has been clear. We've had a strong wish for a law of law. Now, the game we've been taking part in, we're putting a dot for today. At the same time, we are on the starting line for the next important stage – now we need to ensure that we have a well-functioning law that helps to preserve the rich and varied landscape in Marka, and that takes care of the nature and cultural environment of Marka. At the same time, the intention of the law is to facilitate the sustainable use of Oslomarka. The aim is that more people should spend more time in Marka and that the qualities that characterise the area should also be equally attractive for future generations. For the Left, it has been important to contribute to adjustments during the Great Britain process that will enable us to achieve these objectives. I think the changes that have been made will contribute to that. It is gratifying that representatives of the government parties also conclude this in their speeches. The Government shall be commended for promoting this proposal. It will be as part of this story that it was Environment Minister Erik Solheim who introduced the law. I also hope it will be part of this story that the treatment in Stortinget helped to improve the law, and made it become wider anchored than it would otherwise be. The left has been critical of the process, where municipalities and other actors have not been treated as promised. There has been a bad starting point for dealing with the law in Stortinget. We are also critical of the legislative proposal presented by the Government, which has created great uncertainty and great resistance. There has been a somewhat remarkable situation in following the debate in the media, where the starting point has been as one has read the law and understood the law, and then one on the other has had interpretations and insurances from the Council of State that are partly going in a different direction. There has been a great deal of room between how you have perceived the law, and how it has been interpreted by representatives of the government parties. This peaked when the Council of State said to the evening post: «Trust me in my word!» It is a poor insurance policy in relation to future borderlines and unresolved questions related to the law. For this reason, the Committee has been committed to clarifying the matter and not relying on the use of the word ‘State Council’ which is now presenting this matter. I also believe that several of the insurances provided by the Council of State have not been able to be satisfied with the background in the text of the law, and refer in this connection also to the review by Stordrange of this problem. Uncertainty-related areas remain. It shows the input that has come to the committee after our release, where one describes the position of the government parties as that one continues to create uncertainty. I hope that today, through the posts of the Council of State, we can clarify the position in these areas. What is essential is that the debate has worked and that the Government parties have changed their attitude in important areas. I think the government parties should be very grateful for that, even though a process was initially initiated with a much more bombastic conclusion, that the law provided for the reasons to be taken into account. I would also like to stress that at one point the Left wanted to have negotiations with the government parties, and other parties, in order to have a common platform and a common agreement that could strengthen the law that we are adopting today. We were unable to do that, but we have managed to achieve some of this purpose through the examination in the committee. I want to point to some of the areas where the Left has helped to move the majority. Sport is equated for the purposes of the law with the other interests. When you know the use of the Marka and the big feature of sport there, it was incomprehensible to me that it was not taken care of in the proposal that was made. It is also stated that new serving rooms should be established in Marka and that existing ones can be expanded and modernised. And as I mentioned before, agriculture is not going to be covered by the general construction ban. Agriculture in Marka, and not least in Sørkedalen and Maridalen, is an important part of the cultural landscape in Marka, and is important for the preservation of biodiversity. We have also received support for the comment that ‘generally’ exemptions should be granted for minor measures on or in relation to existing buildings, such as sanitary solutions, time-scale solutions and façade changes. It is a comment that is relevant to some of the objections raised in today’s debate. But there have also been some areas where we haven't reached. We have wanted to give priority to the law on nature protection and its regulations for the land law in protected areas under the law on nature protection within the land border. We are afraid that giving priority to the law on land can weaken the protection of established and well-functioning protected areas. We would also like to omit the wording "starting work on the area part of the municipality plan or the regulation plan relating to Marka requires permission from the department". This is an unnecessary bureaucratic provision, where one states that one must apply to be allowed to apply. As others have pointed out, there is still uncertainty about the construction of loops in Marka, as stated by representatives of the Ski Association. There's still some confusion about the development of Tryvann. There are two of the areas in which it will be very important for the Council of State to clarify its position. It has also not been possible to include the government parties in a scheme of financial compensation for the protection of open spaces in line with compensation under the Nature Conservation Act. I don't think the good wishes and the opening that Erling Sande pointed to is enough to take care of these sides in the future. However, the main thing today is that we have an important law in place – an important environmental issue has been brought to port. I would also like to point out that around several other cities in the country – yes, very many of them – there are fields that need to be secured, if not in their own law, then in one way or another. I hope that the beginning of the treatment in Stortinget that this case received, due to a lack of treatment by the Government, will make the work related to securing other urban areas more difficult. I hope that the treatment in Stortinget has contributed to the positive and constructive involvement of others in this work. I want to end by pointing to what will remain as a conclusion, that the law will be adopted today with the support of all parties except the Advance Party. What's an important point in that case is that the adjustments to the law made in the Storting, the recordings that have come from different teams, have contributed to a wider majority than the law would have been if you had built on the reading that the Government provided.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e513	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e516	Two brief comments: one goes on the very question of negotiations. There I just want to say that it is not possible to negotiate with a party that does not want to say what they want to negotiate about. We did not know the positions of the left, and therefore it was not possible. But the result was very good, and that's the important thing. So to the question of the Marka Act versus other protection laws: I would like to refer to page 12 of the vote, where there is a majority comment from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party, where we stress that ‘the Marka Act is an environmental law’, and where we point out that if ‘within the boundaries of the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Law on the Conservation of Nature, the measure in question must comply with the requirements of both laws. This means that a permit under the Law on Marks is not sufficient to implement a measure if no derogation has also been granted from the Protection Regulation under the Law on Nature Conservation. However, if the Law on Marks provides for a higher level of restriction than protection under the Law on Nature Conservation, and this does not conflict with the purpose of the Regulation, the Law on Marks will apply in addition to the Code on Protection.’ So there's no weakening.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e528	First of all, the question of the negotiations: there is a basis for referring to what has been negotiated in relation to the climate agreement. There was agreement between the parties to sit down and then present their positions and start negotiating. It was such a starting point we wanted here also to get broad agreement to the law and to make changes. Now it wasn't, and it's right as the rapporteur says, that some of the reasons we had for our invitation to negotiations have been met by changes made in the committee, and the result is that everyone except the Progress Party is now voting in favour of the law. So that's good. As regards the nature protection law and its position, our point is that it has been very well-functioning in the areas where it applies today. Uncertainty is created about the interface between legislation and market law as formulated by government parties. That is why we have been so clear that we wanted the Law on Nature Conservation to take precedence. It is based on the fact that the type of protection it provides in these areas is very well adapted to the current objective and challenges in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e535	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e538	I'm not hiding that this is one of the funniest things I've been allowed to present to the Storting, and one of those that matters most to me personally. It's always nice to present things you think are politically important, but it's extra nice when there's something you have a strong personal relationship with. I've spent weeks, months, maybe years together – I don't know, I haven't put it together – in Lillomarka, Eastmarka and Nordmarka and it's great to be allowed on behalf of the Government to present this. Let me start by thanking all those who have contributed to us getting a historical law. I want to start with the fires that have driven this forward. They all deserve to be mentioned by name. Some of them are sitting up there in the gallery. There are people like Erik Sture Laarre, who began to engage with Marka about 20 years before I was born. He's spent a whole life on this. There are people like Steinar Saghaug, who were engaged to the law of the land at a time when I was at least just busy going there and not running politics in relation to it. And there's a number of other fires. Without people like them, there would never have been any law. Let me also thank the associations of outdoors and sports, the Tourist Association, the Ski Association, all those who help people get out of Marka. I agree with everyone who has said that it is through use of the Marka will be protected, but also by these organizations, who have had a great deal of pressure to get Marka protected. I would also like to thank the hardworking ministry in the Ministry of the Environment, which has been in many storms and has suffered unfair criticism and has contributed to a good law. Let me also thank Vegard Ulvang and Aslak Sira Myhre and others who have helped us get this debate on this law. The evening post wrote that there has been more debate about the Marka law than about hijab. They've got several readings, and it shows something about how strong this is in people's consciousness. Without having come out with some unreasonable and some reasonable criticism, we would not have received this debate either. So they deserve thanks too. Let me also thank the Left and Christian People's Party for participating in sensible decisions here, which have raised objections that have been taken into account – not all, but some of them. It has also helped to ensure that the law has been good. Most of all, I would like to thank the red-green majority, not least Inga Marte Thorkildsen, Marianne Marthinsen, Erling Sande and also others who deserve praise and honor for having stood up in the storm around this law, and who have contributed to the fact that it has now passed through. Some kind of thanks must also be allowed to give to the Right in order to have contributed to this law. I do not disclose any state secret when I say that I am not further impressed with the Right Footwork in this matter. You try to satisfy absolutely all at the same time, both the many Right-Choosers in Oslo who want such a law, and all those who have made every possible objection to the law. One demands and satisfies well to the seventh and last none. Right repealed the Marka Act in 1980. They've had 30 years to produce a new law, and should be happy that we did the work that Right hasn't done. But at least it's good that we now also have the Right to vote in favour of the law. In the case of the Progress Party, it's just quoting Gorbachev. He said to his Eastern European friends once in 1988, I think it was: Someone is late for history. It is the weight of the Advance Party in life when something important happens: the Advance Party is too late. In ten years they will probably say that this was the right law, just as the Progress Party today obviously regrets that there was no six-field highway around the castle. There was once a plan for a six-field highway around the castle, and there was a plan for a motorway through Frogner Park, and the advance politicians of the time supported such plans. Then we will see when that day comes, whether the Party of Advancement is also pleased with this law, which they came too late to. It's a historical law. 1.2 million people live in the eastern region, divided into five counties and 19 municipalities. For them, this law will have an enormous impact on outdoor life, natural experiences, sport, well-being, public health and in a number of other areas. It is a law that has been discussed in Oslo since before the Second World War. The biggest demonstration in Oslo’s history – we all think it was against the EU, or maybe someone thinks it was for the EU, but it was about Marka – was in 1946. So, one year after the war, tens of thousands of Oslo citizens were out in the streets to demonstrate against a power line through Oslomarka. That commitment has stayed up and is part of the reason why we're getting a law of law today. The main consequence of the law is that the mark limit is ensured. That is why it is of course important to include it in the legal text, and to defend the pressure on urban land. Let's remember that all contemporary trends are moving towards a higher population concentration in the Oslo area, and that will, of course, also increase the pressure on Marka over time. That's why it's so important that we set the limits now. I stress that it will be the municipalities that still deal with construction matters. The Marka Act does not impose any new application requirements for measures other than those resulting from new design and building laws. Municipalities may continue to use the ordinary planning instruments under the Planning and Building Act to carry out assessments and to clarify which extensions and other construction measures may be permitted in a specific area. This will be of great importance to residents and tenants. Plans shall continue to be drawn up in line with the Law on Plans and Buildings, but the plans must also be in line with the objectives of the Law on the Landing by taking into account outdoor activities and sport. The final decision of the municipalities on the area part of the municipality plan or the regulation plan relating to Marka must be confirmed by the Ministry of the Environment. The County of Oslo and Akershus will be the complaint authority for all 19 municipalities. Although agricultural and forestry measures are not affected by the law, the County of Oslo and Akershus shall also be the complaint authority for municipal decisions in such cases within the land border. I also discussed with the county council this day that an important task when the law is passed by the Storting will be for the county office and the Ministry of the Environment to set out detailed guidelines on how to deal with the individual issues that will arise. In order to contribute to overall governance, the law also provides for the creation of a market council — where representatives of outdoor life, sport, residents, landlords, agriculture and others will be represented — and an advisory body that will keep Marka’s interests at the heart of opinion and which can, of course, help to provide advice and clarify important themes. Some have reacted negatively – once again it is the Right Party and the Advance Party – to the concept of fairy-tale forest, which has been introduced here. I guess no one thinks it has a scientific justification, but sometimes it must be allowed to use some popular reason as well and introduce a concept that I think people in general understand what it means. It means a forest area with special natural qualities, which has been standing for a long time, and which is not suitable for the type of outdoor life that is very fast paced and sporty, but suitable for people who want the quiet natural experience on it can call natural history grounds. There must also be room for that in Marka. What we're going to have in Marka, as I see it, is the combination of all kinds of sports and outdoors that belong in Marka: The quiet natural experience – sitting by a fish water, you hear no one else, just birds and animals around you – Johs. Harviken's type of skiing that I remember from my youth, which is quiet and stylish, but going at considerable speed ahead, cycling on forest roads, but of course also the much more speedy outdoor life, whether it's snowboard, ski jumping or alpine, whatever it might be. People aren't like that there's someone who just wants one, and someone who just wants the other. The vast majority of us want all these different forms of outdoor life and sport. One day we want the one, the other day, in one phase of life, in another phase of life, the other, and we're going to arrange for everything. The aim of promoting and facilitating sport in Marka is very central. The law provides for the upgrading, construction and further development of sports facilities, as well as the establishment of new sports facilities as long as they can be adapted for the purposes of the law. Outdoor winter sports facilities, such as: Tryvann Winterpark – which was the site of both Syversen and the committee leader – is a type of facility that could fall within the scope of the law, and is thus permitted under the law on the land. But of course, each case has to be assessed on its own. An assessment must be made taking into account the other purposes of the law. The same is true of one thing that the Ski Association has been very concerned about. Of course, I can't say on the dot how many cubic meters of mass to move before it goes from being a small intervention to being a major intervention. A State Council cannot clarify it once and for all. But everyone understands that smaller interventions that make a loop more appropriate must be allowed. It just makes it easier to get more people into nature, and it will make it easier to organize outdoors and sports. Then there is a major intervention that will require handling according to the Law on Planning and Building, as other major natural interventions. Let me finally say: the evening post had a headline here the day that was called ‘Applause and pipe for new Markalaw’. When you read the case, there was one that peeped and ten that cheered by the various social institutions that were asked. I think that's where we are now. After a broad debate with good participation and a majority consisting of all the central parties, the Workers' Party and SV, we have now received a good law. Jon Lilletun – a politician I greatly appreciated – once said about a budget in Stortinget that a good budget has become even better. Let me say about this: a good law has become even better.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e582	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e586	It could almost be heard during the state council's posts as if I had said that we were to asphalt the whole of Nordmarka. It has to be based on a misunderstanding. I haven't said that, and that's not our intention either. Let me say it this way: I hear the Council of State is looking forward to Marka. I'll do my utmost to give the Council of State more time to spend in Marka for the autumn. So that said, it's a legal disagreement. In a way, the exponent outside the political environment is Bjørn Stordrange, and the foremost spokesman in the political environment, and also the responsible Council of State, is the present Council of State. This goes on building and modernizing cabins. Can the Council of State now clarify once and for all that it is the Council of State who is right and the Bjørn Stordrange who are wrong, when he says that it has to be demonstrated that the repatriation of the cabin is also more useful in relation to outdoor life and natural interests in order for such construction to take place?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e593	Of course, all the regulations that apply in the country under the Law on Planning and Building apply in Marka. Treatment of cabin expansion e.g. will come under the Law on Planning and Building and will be dealt with accordingly. The purpose of the Marka Act for the protection of outdoor life and sport in Marka shall also be taken into account. It's very, very difficult to imagine that small changes on a cabin would be a major nuisance for outdoors or sports in Marka. There may be theoretical examples of that. Maybe someone will put a do in the middle of a path and close it – it's always possible to create theoretical structures. But if you use common sense, which is a good principle, I think this will be very, very good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e598	The right had no difficulty in voting in favour of the law primarily and not subsidiaryly, if the Council of State had kept words and kept the boundary to the regulation, as was said in the consultation round. Nor would the right have had any problems if sport and agriculture had been clearly included in the objective from the outset, if the construction ban had excluded the purpose of the law, if the law had been significantly more unbureaucratic than it is, if existing business, and especially in forestry, had been allowed to develop further and not have a damp hand put around it, the same in relation to the living environment, and not least if we had been fully compensated – that is said. Right has enthusiasm for the law as we want it to be, not as the Council of State put it out. The Council of State sees this as a problem with regard to its own rhetoric and, for example, with regard to the question of whether it is a problem with regard to its own rhetoric. Content of the law, in the light of Stordrrange's objections?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e608	I am pleased with some of the improvements that I see in the law, I would particularly like to point out it with the sport. I guess I'm as interested in sports as the average in the assembly, and I'm also active in sports. I see very positively that this has come into the purpose section, and see it as a real improvement of the law. But I am not very impressed with the exercise of searching for all kinds of errors in a law, in order to satisfy all possible interests and to try to get it sent back to the Government, so that you know that this is again being sent out on the brink and takes winter and spring. The right has had 30 years! Since you withdrew this law from Stortinget in 1981, you have had almost 30 years to produce a new law. We followed the principle of advertising: «Just do it!» There is more respect for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e615	Such self-esteem should definitely be listened to, it seemed as if it came deep from the heart. I understand that the councils have also been inspired by Jon Lilletun. In this way he has a bright future, because there is a man you can learn a lot from, among other things. to listen. As far as I can see the Soria Moria statement, one has probably also seen this as a basis for the protection of other urban areas. It is ongoing, for example: a debate in Trondheim. My question is whether the Council of State sees some potential for improvement in the Ministry's legislative work in involving the municipalities that are actually affected by the legislative proposals that have been promoted in this round, and what is perhaps to be promoted?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e626	I agree that it is not a simple matter what happened in this case, where a proposal was sent that had a single view of the border. Then you got a lot of input, many of which were just about to set the limits directly in the law, and then it was done. Of course, it is possible to imagine that this could then be sent out to a new hearing – at the risk that a case that has been going on since World War II, and which 30 years ago was withdrawn from the Storting of a bourgeois government, would lead to a new desert hike. I'm going to give all sorts of homage to the draft lion Marianne Marthinsen, Erling Sande and Inga Marte Thorkildsen, who has actually listened. This law has been amended in Stortinget, at least on three points, as far as I can see. It just shows that the red-green actually listens in this case. In the case of other fields, I don't think we want to take the initiative from here. Municipalities themselves must take the initiative in what they want to do. If the Trondheim region, the Bergens region or the Dramens region – I don't know – sees the need for legal regulation and action from the Stortinget side, it has to come up from below.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e635	The Council of State was pleased to refer to the Evening Post, where it said that it was ten that cheered and one as a beep – it was after the committee had finished its legal work. When the government put it forward, at best there were five who cheered and at least as many as the beep. The Council of State says that he is pleased that the law has been improved by the fact that sport has entered the purpose paragraph. I have to assume that with so much work that has been done with this law in the ministry and among the government parties, there has been a theme about whether sport should be included in the purpose paragraph. What's the reason why it didn't come? Was there no internal one in the Government or among the government parties who measured that interest and who could care for sport, so that it was included in the purpose paragraph? Question no. 2: Was there no one who maintained the agricultural interests and saw the link between the development of agriculture and the care of this area, and could thus ensure that the construction ban did not affect agriculture without the Stortingen adjusting it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e644	I don't think I'm going to go into the internal discussions that were in the office and in the government around these matters. It's the kind of balances that always do. I can probably suggest that it is precisely because of this kind of balance it took 30 years to get a new law presented, and that the Left also put in government for seven years without ever being able to submit a law. Instead of running that kind of pingpong game to each other, today we should be happy with what we see: the centre parties, the left, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, and the Workers' Party and the SV are united by an important law, with a slightly negligent Right that you don't really know where you have. The fact that the Progress Party is parked on the sideline of this case is also typical for all environmental issues. Today we must be able to enjoy ourselves together, instead of playing pingpong.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e651	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e654	I would like first of all to commend the majority of the Committee and the Council of State and the Government for promoting a very important historical proposal, and for being responsive and good at the work of the law and listening to important input during the hearing here in the Stortinget and in the public debate. I think a total staggering should express great pleasure in having a council that has the very good quality it is to be able to take into account and participate in creating something with the Storing and doing something even better. That quality had earned even more praise than you've heard here tonight. I don't think the Council of State needs to be so worried that some representatives don't want more adventure and more adventure forest. I don't think they're so concerned about more Soria Moria either after the election. What I as a health politician and Oslo representative will highlight, in addition to all the good arguments that have come here earlier this evening, is that 1.2 million people in 19 municipalities have huge benefits from Marka in terms of physical activity, health and recreation. The right hand party and the Progress Party are subject to a competitive advantage. The Oslo region has a huge international competitive advantage by the fact that scientists and business leaders come here and say they want to live and work in the Oslo area, because there is no place in the world where you have as fast access to such natural pearls as we have here. And it's summer and winter. It's a huge advantage for the Oslo area, for our own people and for everyone who's going to work and live here in the future. As you can see, this is historic. I am, like the Council of State, concerned with facilitating as much as possible entry into the Marka, those with nodding and backpacks and fishing rods, those with skates and off-road bikes, children's families with cars and polkas, young people who want to have fun, those with wheelchairs and disabilities, and not least our new minority population, who do not have the same tradition of using Marka as we do – and who need it as much as we do. It is quite right, as the Council of State points out, that we can use Marka in different stages of life – but also from weekend to weekend – in different ways. Steinar Saghaug has been mentioned here – a central conservationist in the Oslo area – who has also been involved in the process and has had conversations with me since I started working with the law in 2004. I sometimes meet him at full speed on off-road bicycles in Marka and sometimes enlisting around by igniting a fire somewhere to sit in peace and quiet, or sometimes to make big meetings with East Mark's friends. So there are many of us that use Marka in many ways, and it's vital that the law preserves. The Council of State stresses that he is pleased that physical activity, sport, too, is now becoming an equal consideration in these considerations, and I think that is very crucial. The majority of the Committee has followed up the change in the purpose paragraph in a good manner, including in its comments in the setting. I think that both the representatives of Tore Nordtun and Inga Marte Thorkildsen and the Council of State in their contributions are well aware of the fact that it is possible to develop installations, make improvements and implement new installations when this is within the scope of the purpose paragraph, as it now weighs all three considerations – also the importance of sport and physical activity. It's a formulation in the setting that I'm very happy with. This is what some of the most important actors in the Marka, Ski Association, Sports Association, Ski Federation and Oslo Sports Circle have been concerned about, namely the working space to improve trails and pathways and facilitate activity, and it is about the need for regulatory plans. It is said here: ‘This means that less intervention will usually not require a regulatory plan’ – as it is also elaborated by the Council of State and among others. Mr Nordtun here earlier this evening. I understand that these big associations and all the sports teams have been worried that there would be very expensive procedures with regulatory plans and bureaucracy, etc. in relation to being able to make the efforts of tens of thousands of athletes in these municipalities, it has now been clarified, and they need not worry about upgrading and maintaining existing loops, for the extension of some loops, for the width of the loops in order to accommodate new preparation machines, for smaller connections such as: small bridges or small bluffs over ants, streams and rivers, for some adjustments to existing open-air terraces in relation to open-air loops, and for those types of measures, for smaller mass movements related to adapting the loops to new weather conditions, climate and new things happening. This will be in line with what has been clarified here both by the Council of State and by the representatives of the Government Parties in the Committee. I'm glad that those concerns are resolved, and I think that the breadth of the inauguration of this law now in the Oslo area and among those who use Marka is very strong and very large. Enthusiasm has increased for every day, and I think it will increase even after this debate, where this has come into place very nicely. Since the Council of State and the Committee majority have worked so well on this – also together with the Left and Christian People's Party – it is therefore particularly sad that the Right maintains its primary proposal to return the matter to the Government. Together with the intense resistance of the Advance Party to the law – although I sincerely hope that they will not come into the position after the fall's fall, the Right's desire to send the law back means that the fate of the law is not finally settled until after the fall's fall. So even if the Right subsidiary wants to vote in favour of the law, they play the law with their opposition to the law and their proposal to send it back. And of course, the resistance of the Party of Advancement – as the dominant party on the bourgeois side – means that the fate of this law is not really decided until after the fall of the fall. So I'm asking all the value-conservative voters in the Oslo area to notice that there's a broad uprising about this law now. I think it will have a difficult historical significance and be a crucial factor in the development of the entire Oslo area as an attractive area both internationally and globally. There is nothing we should put at risk at the fall fall fall election, and I sincerely hope that value-conservative voters in Oslo will notice it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e675	Three major changes have been made during the examination of this matter. Sport is promised as one of the purposes of the law. Agricultural properties shall not be subject to the law. But I'm critical of how the boundaries have been set, and I would like to point out that there is still some confusion about sports facilities like this. Warningskollen and Tryvann Skisenter can be further developed and expanded or not. It is a bad sign that the minister and the legal text so far have said quite different things. It shows some of the interpretation problems you'll get with the law in the future. Haste works are cargo works, sounds like an old saying. The way the government has now trodden through the new law, indicates that it has gone too fast, and that what you have done has not been fully controlled. Just under two years ago, the Ministry of the Environment promoted new temporary marketing regulations. Its purpose was, among other things: to prevent the land counties from accelerating construction projects which could come into direct conflict with the new permanent land law. The affected land municipalities were assured that they would be heard before the Stortinget passed the law and set the new land borders. Most agreed that this was a reasonable procedure. But then, early in the New Year, the game rules were changed brutally. A proposal for a new Marka Act was made, but now it was said that there was no time to pick up advice and hint from the relevant municipalities around Marka. The pill has been sued by promising that the land municipalities which will be involved in the future between new development projects and the law will have the right to negotiate with the county council on the drawn-up land border. Many municipalities have little experience with the county council and case handlers at the county council, and it will be felt that the municipal councils of the county councils will be run over there as well. As soon as the new law on the land is dealt with without prior consultation with the municipalities concerned, what the municipalities have discovered happens that the new land borders are being drawn arbitrarily. Suddenly, Varingskollen Alpinsenter in Nittedal is within the new mark limit, without the municipality having been heard, and without any objection from the municipality, has been taken into account. This could mean, in the ultimate sense, no further expansion and modernisation of the important outdoor centre in Hakadal, which is an important offer for young people throughout the eastern region. As an example: about 70 pst. the area of the municipality of Nittedal is within the new land border proposal of the Ministry of the Environment. And then we know that 20 pst. of the remaining area of the municipality is already defined as agricultural area, so barely 10 pst remains. for expansion purposes. If the mark border is strictly enforced, Nittedal Bondelag can get right in its fear of being built completely special and peculiar green valley bottoms in the future being subjected to a heavy expansion pressure. The fact that sport is part of the purpose of the law does not mean that it is free from large sports facilities in Oslomarka. The organisation, according to government lots, shall apply to sport that can be accommodated in Marka, but football and recreational arenas, motorsport facilities or new shooting lanes, for example. can't adapt to the new law. There are almost no guides to the needs of sport, while there are clear leads to a ban on construction and what is not allowed to be done. This is a very important law for outdoor life in the future, but it is important that elements are introduced that do not stop sport, because that cannot be the intention. Ask a youth at Varingskollen or at Tryvann Skisenter, you will be told that they do as much outdoor activities as sports. Defining this as open-air life is very unfortunate. That should have been avoided.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e704	The protection of Marka is important. And that's exactly what the 19 land municipalities have been doing for over 100 years – they've been protecting Marka through use. I have to get the impression that the government parties are trying to create in the hall that the Right is against protection, that the Right is against the law and therefore against protection. The only thing the Right has done in this case is to take on seriously the recordings that have come from very many of the people involved, recordings that have obviously helped to improve the law, recordings that the Government was not willing to listen to during the legislative process, but that the government parties in the negotiations in the Stortinget have recorded. It is most unusual that a bill from a majority government is then changed to those degrees in the Storting. I believe that it is most necessary to take seriously the municipalities that are now saying that they have not been heard in questions about the setting of borders, and those who are now saying that they have not been heard in relation to how the law is perceived – as rigid and not flexible. Many people are busy using the Mark. There are walkers, there are sportsmen, there are activists, and there are many who have enjoyed Marka every single day. When the Right has been critical of parts of the law and wants it to be returned in order to have a more thorough investigation and treatment, it is precisely because the particular issue of the determination of the mark limit has caused considerable concern. The right has also expressed in its observations that there is no principle in establishing the mark limit in the law and not in the regulation. But then the rules of the game must be followed. Then what you told me in advance, also applies throughout. It's not random that there's been so much turmoil, and it's the government's sail that has helped to create, especially the council, because he's said one thing in the media and then later shown to the law that says something completely different. I would like to quote what Bjørn Stordrange has expressed in his review: ‘Minister for the Environment, Erik Solheim, has issued opinions which are not in accordance with the actual content of the Act. In part, the opinions and the actual legal content are significant. Several measures the Minister for the Environment highlights as important and, in his view, can be implemented in compliance with the law, cannot be implemented in accordance with the main rules of the law. Not least in the case of the construction ban, the legislative text does not provide the basis for the measures proposed by the Minister for the Environment.’.» It's a serious criticism, and it's no wonder it's been created considerable anxiety. Significant uncertainty has also been created about the development of Tryvann Winter Park. This is how the Municipality of Oslo has granted 35 million. kr for the purpose, and there are plans to expand for approximately 100 million. kr. It's extremely important to get more children and young people out in Marka, that you can also expand and use Marka for winter sports activities, which you might not have thought about 30 years ago, or for that matter ten years ago. Not even by letter to the Committee, the Council of State has made it clear whether or not it can be started. This means that a large sports community still lives in uncertainty about whether the plans adopted can be implemented and about 35 million. kr that the Municipality of Oslo has granted, can be used. To put it this way, if the Council of State gets an impact on its strict interpretations, it will be a strong contribution to bringing children and young people out of Marka, and not to increase the use of Marka. There are many aspects of the law that have received an improved profile after treatment in Stortinget. But there are still so many serious shortcomings in the legal work in Stortinget now, that the Right of course, in principle, will maintain its proposal to send the law back. It's not because the right is not concerned with protection. Rather, on the contrary, it is because the right is also concerned that the rules you set up in a legal process should be followed. This means that you do not have to take 19 land municipalities on the bed and do not let them be heard on questions of border fixing. It also means that all the constructive objections that arise are entitled to be heard. The right has chosen to listen to those who made recordings. I think City Councillor Erling Lae has said a lot in the debate on Marka. I see in particular one of his statements about how Marka is protected, is worth taking with him. As he says, the mark shall be protected by use, not by hermetization. The objections that have arisen have been important for the Right to take seriously. It obviously hasn't been for the government. I am glad that there is an improvement in Stortinget, but the improvements are not good enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e733	I can only place myself in the ranks of those who welcome the law, and join in all the positives that have been said from this pulpit. The marker limit has been a concept that has been incorporated for many years. Now this is finally confirmed in the form of a law. This was a good law when it was presented, and through the examination in the committee and in the Stortinget it has become even clearer and better. Like most of the speakers, I would like to thank the majority of the committee, first of all for a good job of getting the law in place, but also for a good job of clarifying the legal text and for the clarifications that have been made. Many have been involved in the debate since the law was passed. The work that has been done is a good example of the fact that the treatment of the Storting has an impact on the outcome of a case, although luckily the main objective of the law is established. The Marka Act is important for 19 municipalities, and the local involvement has been significant, both before and after the law was passed, from both champions and skeptics. It is understandable that involvement has been high among local politicians and interests. The treatment also shows that recordings are taken seriously. Many municipalities have engaged in the matter, naturally. Not least, the involvement of municipalities has been at the level of the borders themselves, and that it is in the law. The consultation proposal suggested that it should be done by way of a regulation afterwards. When the law came, this created uncertainty, also a lot of unwarranted uncertainty. There are good reasons why the limits are laid down in the law. A law is difficult when you don't know what the scope of the law is. In addition, the legislative text states that the possibility of border adjustments, both restrictive and extensive, is present. The same is true of the letter from the Minister for the Environment to the municipalities of 17 December. In view of the comments made by the majority of the Committee, and through what appears in the debate this evening, there should no longer be any doubt that access to implementing border adjustments in the legal land border does not differ significantly from the consultation proposal submitted. If a municipality considers that it would make sense to change the border, whether it will extend or restrict its scope, it may initiate an initiative towards the ministry, and any change may be made by regulation and need no legislative change. With the clarifications provided by the majority in the vote, much of the uncertainty surrounding the law should be gone, and the unprecise claims made against the law should be cleared up at this point. A municipality I know very well, and that is also subject to the changes being made in Stortinget, is Ski Municipality. There, the challenge has been specifically about inhabited ‘islands’ in Marka. In the original proposal for a law, these islands lay within the border. In the proposal we are discussing today, the boundaries have changed, so that they are in line with the municipality's own land border map. This adjustment is a very sensible change, not least to the benefit of those living in the area. It also makes sense in a different perspective. Ski municipality has been working for a long time to clean up the areas around Langen. A good job has been done locally to clean up the sewer situation and to clarify the situation for those living there, and attention to Marka has always been important to the municipality. It was with amazement that the municipality read the law for the first time, with these islands lying within the mark. With the decision we are making today, the wonder will be turned to joy in the municipality of Ski. Many people use Marka for sports and training, myself included. It is good that sport also has its place in the law, as long as it does not conflict with other considerations or lead to major interference.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e759	The Marka Act is a strange political craft. It says, among other things: that the law will ensure more than one million people access to nature and a valuable cultural landscape in their immediate environment. And that's nice! And I, who in my error has used Marka in the assurance that I actually have access to nature and the valuable cultural landscape. ‘If it ain’t broken, don’t fix it,’ is what it is called, but it’s foreign. At a meeting of East Marka's friends last November, State Secretary Heidi Sørensen stated that with the new law the mark border should be nailed once and for all. The mark limit is under constant pressure, must know, and the mark law is supposed to remove this pressure. Remember: The future is adopted – it is not created! The Progress Party believes that the proposal for new Marka Law is too simplistic and short-sighted populist policy that can actually destroy both the environment and the inhabitants of Oslo. But let it be clear: the party of progress is to take care of Marka! We are Marka-friends good as some, and our voters love Marka as much as the Workers' Party and SV's voters. The part of the progress is not a follower of, is to look blindly at one thing and forget everything else. In addition to being Marka friends, the Progress Party is also Oslo friends. Yeah, we're city friends for while 80 pst. by the city's inhabitants using the land, it's actually 100 pst. by the city’s inhabitants living in this city – and we will be at the party with the future and not just the present. So to the Council of State, some people came too late for history, said the Council of State. Yes, those who know the history of the Progress Party know that in 34 years we have become Norway's second largest party, and no one is in particular in doubt that we have been in front of the political developments in Norway. When we look at SV's history, it might not be so much to boast about the past, but we see where SV is today and the size SV has as a party. The problem of penetrating the marker limit once and for all is quite easy to illustrate. It's just moving the meeting back 100 or 60 years to 1908 or to 1948 when the Marka was far closer to the center. If the land law had been introduced at the time, the few of the members of the meeting would live where they live today. In 1908, the Baltic Sea was only a forest, ants and a few farms, like the other outer districts of Oslo. If the 1948 borders had been passed by law, where in all days would we have done by the 150,000 people who today live in the Grorud Valley? What had happened to Oslo then? What would our city have looked like? Oslo in 50 years is a distant thought for many. But the future will come, and we politicians will have to take that into account. The population of Oslo has always grown, and it will grow in the future. There could be hundreds of thousands more in Oslo. Where does the government think these people are going to live? What is the Government's plan for Oslo City? Because while the population in Oslo is growing by nearly 20,000 people each year, the politically correct majority will neither build on height nor on the green areas of the city, while at the same time preserving and preserving almost all dwellings and structures that are more than 100 years old. And so now the mark limit is cemented so that neither the edge zones in Marka can be used for housing in the future. Such a policy will lead to fewer new dwellings and more expensive dwellings. Who will be able to afford to live in Oslo in the future? Or is it that the inhabitants of the future will depend on public housing to afford to live in this city? To cement the mark limit once and for all, it is both enjoyable and environmentally friendly at first sight. But the government forgets that everything we do also has a consequence. The consequence of the land law is that the area is locked, while the population continues to grow. It means fortification, more houses, fewer green lungs in the city and even higher housing prices. Those who cannot afford to live in this Future-Oslo must stay outside. It leads to more commuting, more traffic. Do we? For most people in the future Oslo, everyday life will be heavier and more expensive. Then there's a little comfort that there's a little shorter way to get on a Sunday tour in Marka, no matter how many rare plants, rocks and insects you get. Of course, you may wish that no one else will choose to move to Oslo in the future, but nothing indicates that that will happen. The adoption of the Land Act therefore becomes like the adoption of a coercion for future generations — a coercion that will change and seal everything that is on the urban side of the land border. Some rich people's strokes will always be able to resist the fortification, while people with less advice either have to live like herring in barrels or move out and spend a lot of time and money on commuting. This is both unsocial and poor environmental policies. So what's the gain? When the forcible strain over many years has done enough Uganda, the inevitable will happen: you have to expand into the Marka anyway. In the meantime, all urban development is based on one third of the city's area. Then we've all lost. So who's on the side of the story? The majority in this Chamber claim that this is a wise policy, that it is forward-looking and that it is at the same time a good environmental policy. As I have explained, the Progress Party does not share that view. We have to take care of Marka, but at the same time we have to take care of our city. Because as the population grows, we cannot pursue policies with artificial boundaries and absolutes. Then we have to take reality into account, and at least we could discuss the construction of new residential areas and new urban areas where they fit best, as always. And despite that, we still have to wish for more and more: good marks – and then with pitch, nodding and anorak!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e780	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e783	The debate on Marka in Oslo and the local authorities has dealt with two issues: it is the borders, and that is what is going to happen within the borders. The last post from the Progress Party was a glittering application for why a law should be created. The party of progress is blatantly and clearly committed to moving on the mark border, at least in Oslo. The representative Tybring-Gjedde is a real expression of this political mood. Fortunately, over the years, although there have been changing shades, there has been a clear majority in Oslo to preserve Marka, and there has also been a broad majority in Oslo to engage in dialogue on all shades of Marka. I'll come back to it. The grip of creating a law now has the full support of the Left. There is no doubt that borders have to be set, and I am the first to understand that when there are 19 municipalities, there is a more complex process than when there is one municipality with one administrative tradition and cooperation between different interests. I am therefore pleased with the debate that has taken place and with the development that has taken place in the Committee, which has highlighted sport as a purpose and has made it clear that agriculture exists – and I will make it clear. So let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, I was one of those who fought hard to get the legislation on nature protection into use in the Maridalen. We got the protection plan in 2001 when the then Environment Minister Siri Bjerke of the Stoltenberg I government promoted the proposal. That was an important proposal. It was some of the last government did, but it was an important suggestion. All of us who have been to the Maridalen e.g. and knows the balance between farmers who were treated as tenants of the Municipality of Oslo and were allowed to be a little free within those regulations, know what it means for the cultural landscape. All of us who have sat in the well-being house and participated in chord negotiations between all users, nature conservationists, outdoor interests, etc. and know that one finds a local solution, knows that this is not an abuse, but that there are chord negotiations in the pact with the attitude that has been at work on what we now have to deal with in Odelstinget today. That is why, as the Left Representative, I should have seen two improvements. I would see perfectly unambiguously that the legislation on nature protection in the areas protected by it, and for example. The Maridalen, which is also protected by provisions relating to nature protection legislation, had a clear priority over the land law. I think that what is on page 12 of the vote, and that the representative of Thorkildsen quoted, at best creates grey areas. It would have been good if you had cleared those grey areas of the road. There is a proposal on the table from the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left about it. And then it would have been good if the first paragraph of Section 6 had abolished the provision that you should be allowed to apply for an application. I don't understand how we can do so much bureaucracy. It's enough to search, and then people are able to balance what's happening. All in all, the committee has done a good job, and it is with great pleasure that the Left will vote in favour of this law. Finally, I should say: I think the Council of State should also be pleased that the Right does so in the end, because it is an advantage of as many votes as possible right, even if you do not like the process that has gone ahead.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e794	The Marka Act has been changed in important areas of co-treatment, both through legislative changes and observations. It's very important. That was absolutely necessary. The debate that took place in the evening post After the inaugural recording by Tor Øystein Olsen, Aslak Sira Myre and Vegard Ulvang, showed that the government's legal text did not have the necessary popular uprising. Thank you very much to those guys! Thank you very much to Tor Øystein Olsen, who is now sitting in the diplomatic lodge, and who from a thorough and lengthy knowledge building helped us to get the change that the Council of State has now said led to a better law. The law has been given a new purpose paragraph through the landfill treatment. The law shall promote and facilitate both outdoor life, natural experiences and sport. At the same time, sustainable use for other purposes shall be taken into account. The dynamic purpose of the law for human use at an important point is new as a result of the changes of the Storting in the purpose paragraph. The prohibition of construction measures does not include agricultural measures. This was a necessary legislative change. Agriculture is the use of land, and land must be used not to grow again. At the same time, areas must be managed in such a way as to improve the fertility of the food soil and the forest management must be based on multi-use where forestry management techniques ensure this. This can realize the highest in the coniferous forest, as Lars Haltbrecken so aptly said it while he was the leader of Nature and Youth. But these are general challenges for the use of countries, not just countries in what is called Oslomarka. It is to hope that the international climate and food crisis can give us, who have worked for a long time for this biological vision, increased impact. I am pleased with the state council's statement that new urban areas require local initiatives. I'm glad that this is put up for a dynamic attitude, which means a change in the use of nature, so that you can achieve the necessary multi-use, which we all depend on. The Marka Act does not impose application requirements for measures other than those resulting from new planning and building laws. This means that only what is required by the regulatory plans under the Law on Planning and Buildings also requires a regulatory plan under the Law on Landmarks. Furthermore, only those which require the application procedure under the Planning and Building Act shall apply under the Marka Act. A number of changes on the sports page, Tryvann Winter Park and ground halls are the result of the debate. Those are happy improvements. However, the adventure forest is an unscientific form of protection based on emotions, which means that we are inside in a way that leads us completely wrong. In Trillemarka it was said that one should base the Art Database's red list on species. I understood for a long time that there were outdoors and other things that were at stake, and that one was going to try to get away from what some people call the Latin Force. Here it's set in system. But overall, the law has changed so much that I am voting for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e807	In the election campaign a few years back, I met a representative of the Youth of the Advance Party. They started the election campaign by inviting the press, opposition and all kinds of drag into the Marka to show how they had been going to cut down trees – and they cut down a tree – to let the city drop to around the Marka, as they said. If the Progress Party got more control, they would just do as Christian Tybring-Gjedde said, make sure that larger and larger parts of the Marka were used for construction instead of protection. Better example is hard to find. The youth of the Progress Party was Jøran Kalldmyr, who is currently running the city as city council. So he drove at that time, and so he had well driven on still if he had been allowed to rule the city alone. The question of why we're going to make Marka a place where you have access for everyone in Oslo and everyone in the other 19 municipalities around Oslo is not just a question of municipal autonomy, but actually a question of the whole. That's a national question. It's simply extremely many more people who use Marka than just the people who live in these municipalities. It is extremely important to ensure that we have a consistent practice in all these municipalities. When I have my mother from Bergen visiting, I take her with me, and then we go into Kikut. When I'm going to solve world problems or challenges for the government together with Inga Marte Thorkildsen, we're going to take a ski trip to Eastland. When I'm going to try to find a new girlfriend, we'll take the jam for a walk in Nordmarka. Everyone understands that this is a matter of national interest. That's why we need to take care of the opportunity that the entire country's population needs to have access to the Marka. We have to make a law of law. In the 2001 election campaign, SV was in charge of protecting Marka through its own law. Heidi Sørensen was standing at Rustandsaga, always in post with Oslo SV's then leader, accomplishing this, Hans-Petter Aas. At the time, we were brought forward by outdoor interests, outdoor organisations, various charities and environmental organisations that required the protection of Marka. Today we're just doing that. In many things, I feel that I am moving the world in the right direction when we sit as a government party. But sometimes I feel like we're in on changing the course of history. When I help to make sure that we build more student homes or increase social assistance rates or strengthen housing support, we create a better world. But today we are changing the course of history. So congratulations on the day, all men!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e818	State Council Solheim is concerned to present this as a great day, and it is. The Council of State is committed to stress that there is a broad majority to ensure the law when it is adopted today. He's also right about that. But the representative Jan Bøhler made the impression that this law can be put into play. He made the impression that there's uncertainty about what's going to be the final result, and that the fall selection in the harvest can play a role here. I experience Heikki Holmås's last post, the Council of State's last post and all other posts from the government parties as a clear statement that this law has now been passed, it is in place and it shall be fixed. That Jan Bøhler is heard as he is in the election campaign committee of the Labour Party in Oslo and not in the Stortinget Hall when you adopt the Marka Act, we get to register. As Chairman of the Committee, I would like to stress that our concern by dealing with this law as we have done is to lay the groundwork for a broad majority and clear up doubts. The next stage of the work on the Marka Act is to ensure that it is used in accordance with the intention, not to have a rematch.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e827	I'm concerned that we have a broad majority, as Kvassheim here says, for this law. The broad majority consists in particular of the Christian People's Party and the Left in addition to the governmental parties. I also appreciate, as Odd Einar Dørum was about, that Right-wing votes for this law. But it must also be allowed for us to say that this law had not come if it had not been for the country to have a red-green government. It's the red-green government that's been driving this law through, we've stormed up to get this done. But others are also present on this historic day. Then I must also be allowed to say, like Odd Einar Dørum, that if there was a reason why we're going to have this law, the post from the Progress Party was that reason. The progress party must now end by presenting it as an attack on the electorate of the Progress Party when we distance others from the Progress Party program. What we are doing here today is protecting the electorate of the Progress Party against the politicians of the Progress Party. It is the politicians of the Progress Party and the policies of the Progress Party that are a problem. The voters of the party love Marka. The leaders of the Progress Party are a lot of great people, but they just don't deserve the policies of the Advance Party. That's the problem. It does not apply only in this area of environmental policy. Now I think the Advance Party should dare to take an offensive for its environmental policy towards its voters in the election campaign, and let's see how it goes with the opening up of the party. Go into the election campaign and tell with pride that you did what you could to prevent Oslomarka from being protected. Go into the election campaign and tell their own voters that you are the only party of any size in the entire Western world that casts doubt on whether climate change exists. When Obama, Sarkozy, Merkel and Gordon Brown, have conservative, liberal and social democrats and socialists all over the world discussing what to do with climate change, we have a party that spends its time doubting it. Go out and tell that to their voters as well. And tell me about all the cuts you have proposed in the environment budget and in the development budget, all the cuts that would affect the world's poor and world environment. Go out and also tell your voters in the campaign, and let's see if the voters will end up about it. When the government tomorrow presents a natural diversity law, which is a large, important document, it is the greatest natural law work made in Norwegian history, it will be exciting to see whether the Progress Party is prepared to support that legal work, or whether we will again see the usual pattern, that all the thought force the party can mobilize is used to peck the wheels for environmental protection in this area as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e838	First, I just wanted to say that I didn't fully understand the representative Kvassheim's need to polish against what I said about the future of the law. I am sure there is broad support for the Marka Act and that this decision by today will stand. But I just want to point out the fact that if the Progress Party, against all the sun brands in this world, were to come into government after the election, it is clear that with the intense agitation they are doing here today against this law, and with the Right's proposal to send the law back to the Government, it would be possible for the Marka Act to come up with a new assessment – after such an election result, which I hope in every way will never occur. Therefore, I have asked value-conservative voters in Oslo who want to take care of Marka, notice this case against the election campaign, so there is no doubt whatsoever. So I just want to inform the Progress Party that they don't have to worry about the Groruddalen. It was said here by the representative Tybring-Gjede that if the Marka Act had been adopted in 1949, and it had been in force then, the Groruddalen would not be able to be built by blocks etc., and would lie out in Marka. But the Aker farms were there, and there was life in the Grorud valley that time too. This area was also not Marka in 1949. So the Grorud valley and the inhabitants there had been ready by the law of the field that time, as they are doing now. But we have great joy of Marka, of having it right outside our blocks. That's what the Government and the Storing are securing tonight, and that's what we're really excited about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e846	It's always the case that when the State Council of Solheim starts to get on the defensive, he comes in with indiscriminate attacks, now not only on the representatives of the Progress Party, but also on the voters. What Solheim actually says is that the FrPs, our voters, don't deserve the policy we stand for. Then Erik Solheim once again indirectly says that our voters don't understand our policy, that our voters are thick in their heads. I think you're too good to do that. Then I take note of the offer from Solheim to become the campaign leader of the Advance Party for the fall. I think we might want to look at parties with greater excitement than SV to find them. But thank you for the offer from the Council of State. Then several speakers say yes, in the election campaign we'll talk about the law of the Marka. I kind of don't believe that we're already seeing the unfortunate consequences of this law in the election campaign. But when we take this discussion twenty years in advance, I think we know whether this law has worked according to purpose, or whether it has become a disability in many ways both for outdoor life and for urban development in Oslo. We can't figure that out for the election. We'll find out more in time, unless we get a cabin fire in Marka – let's hope we don't – then maybe we'll have to update this to the election campaign. As far as the law on nature protection is concerned, I think it is interesting that the Council of State takes it up, because we had everything to earn, and this matter would have been much easier to take a debate on if the law on nature protection and not least the new rules on compensation that were outlined to come there had been established now. Then I am sure that the many tenants and villa owners who are now being violated by reducing their ownership and the right to manage their own houses and their own cabins could have accepted this law to a far greater extent. So now these areas are going to be coercive protection without any kind of compensation. This is one of the main reasons why the Progress Party is in the beginning positive for a law on nature protection. I believe that the Council of State Solheim and the representative Lien may not agree on this either, but it is obvious that we need a revision of Norwegian nature protection legislation, and I see that with great joy and excitement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e857	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e865	Then we are ready to vote in case no. 1st@item: inlistbox
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e872	17 proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1-8, by Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left Proposals No. 9 and 10, by Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 11-16, by Peter Skovholt Gitmark on behalf of the Right-wing Proposal No. 17, from Tord Lien on behalf of the Progress Party Proposals Nos. 1 to 16 have been included in the vote on pages 20 to 22, proposal No. 17 is distributed in the seats of the representatives in the hall.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e903	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 11, from the right. The proposal reads as follows: «Ot.prp. No 23 sent back to the Government. [[Marka Act]] The Government is asked to submit a new bill based on an interaction with the host municipalities and the user groups of Marka.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e919	The proposals are then put to the vote. 12 to 16, from the right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e973	The proposals are then put to the vote. 9 and 10, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e1046	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1-8, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e1496	It is voted over the title of the law and the law as a whole. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e1509	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02-lower.ana.ud2143e1619	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone ask for the word before this meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
