ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e22	An application for sick leave has been submitted by the Christian People's Party Group to the representative of Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn from 4 February onwards and until further notice. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Knut Arild Hareide, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e40	The representative of Torbjørn Røe Isaksen will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e43	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Sonja Irene Sjøli and Jan Tore Sanner, I have been pleased to promote a proposal for a representative on equality between private and public providers of care services.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e48	The proposal will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e74	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Life Signe Navarsete State Council Erik Solheim State Council Helga Pedersen The advertised members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e93	I allow myself to ask questions to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. Norwegian fishing industry has acute problems due to the financial crisis. The buyer's side does not have sufficient access to credit. The coastal warners, especially in North Norway, are many. Troms Folkeblad had on his first page on January 30 the title: «Fisheries activities» means: The fisherman leaf used the same day the description: ‘On the edge of the bollard’ It is now reported that the fishing industry says no to more cod, and that there is no drag help to get from the authorities. The demand side is one thing. We cannot do so much about the fact that there may be people who cannot afford to buy Norwegian fish in Europe, but we can do much more to ensure that the liquidity – the money – follows the fish. I want to say, as a mountainer, that this is clear from the 1500s, and it is worrying that we are currently unable to do so with a Finnmark fisheries minister. We have received countless reports that the crisis package does not hold up to keep winter fishing going. Lofoot fishing is about to stop because no one wants the fish, and the situation is precarious in many places. My question to the Minister for Fisheries is, what does she intend to do with this? How has she intended to ensure that the lights are not switched off, and to ensure that the fish is taken? We experience the greatest standstill for Norwegian fisheries in 20 years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e112	What we are now seeing is that the global financial crisis is also affecting the fishing industry. It is quite obvious that there is a desperate situation for those affected, not least for the smallest coastal fleet required to fish when the fish is available, and for many it is now. The restriction on the receipt of fish that we see especially in North Norway is due partly to a failure in the markets, but also to a failure in the availability of credits and capital. In this situation, the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs has a continuous dialogue with industry. We consider very carefully the proposals that have come from the industry. We'll continue to do that, and we've also confirmed many of the requirements that the industry has made. What has been a major problem for the fishing industry is the availability of guarantees. One requirement of the fishing industry was to increase the guarantees to Innovation Norway, so that the agreement Innovation Norway has with the fish sales laws could be continued and extended, because it is very important to make the marketing of fish slip in this situation. It was included in the action package last week. While we stand here, there is now dialogue, discussions and meetings between Innovation Norway and the Sales Act on the new agreement. I assume that it will come into force in a short time and be ready to be implemented when Stortinget adopts the package of measures next week. It'll be a very important contribution to making things slip. Following the arrival of the package of measures, the fishing industry announced the need for further appropriations for Innovation Norway. It is too early to say whether the frameworks of Innovation in Norway today are sufficient or not. If it turns out that Innovation Norway does not have enough money, of course there is a question we need to get back to, but it is impossible to say anything exactly about today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e121	I feel reason to remind the Minister for Fisheries that we are talking about fresh fish. There are limits to how long you can wait. It's a seasonal diet. It is now – in this month and at the beginning of March – that most of the Norwegian fishing industry engaged in wild caught fish earns the main weight of their money in a year. It means that there is limited time to wait and see, and to continue dialogue. The industry has asked the authorities about this since before Christmas, and it is clearly established that what was included in the package of measures is not good enough to ensure that fish is picked up, that it can be delivered to the receptions and delivered to the market. Then my question is to the Council of State: does she have so much time that she can wait further, or can she now guarantee that these measures will come quickly, so that we do not experience that the time for Lofot fishing is actually over before the fishing starts, because you do not get to deliver the fish afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e128	I would very much like to stress that the Government has no waiting and seeing attitude in relation to the needs of the fishing industry at all. This is why we have also established an increased framework for guarantees in Innovation Norway, which has been a key requirement for the fishing industry. However, the fishing laws and innovation laws of Norway need to have the time they need to agree on what a new agreement should look like. If it turns out that there is too little money in the system when that agreement is concluded, we have to get back to the matter. But per year. Today we do not have information that the framework is too small. I would also like to show that we have met other demands made by the fishing industry. In the autumn, innovation strengthened Norway’s low-risk loan schemes considerably, at the request of the fishing industry. It is a type of scheme for which the fishing industry is a major consumer. When the Government presented its packages in the autumn, the fishing industry also notified back that high-risk loan schemes were also needed. It was endorsed in the package of measures presented by the Government last week.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e135	There will be follow-up questions – first Torbjørn Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e138	The frustration with the Government is great along the coast. It is felt that the Government is not up-to-date and that measures are being taken. When the crisis in the export industry became apparent before Christmas, the measures agreed between the industry and the political authorities. There were major measures. There was $50 billion in increased GIEK frames. There was $50 billion in loans for export finance, and there were billions of dollars for innovation in Norway. So we have an entire Ministry of Fisheries to follow up the fishing industry, and the industry does not ask for much. There are small budget lines and there are minor adjustments to existing instruments. Two of the requirements imposed by the fishing industry are the following: the export financing arrangement must be extended to finance foreign fish purchases, and the State’s own risk of the Tapsfonds to Innovation Norway must be extended to 75 pst. – concrete and simple actions. Why does the Government not use these obvious measures to strengthen the fishing industry during the financial crisis?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e147	I understand very well the frustration in the fishing industry, especially among the fishermen who now feel that they are not being supplied fish, when the availability of fish is very good. But we've met the industry. We have evaluated all the measures that have been taken, and we have also endorsed most of the measures that the industry has asked the Government to come with. In the case of GIEK, it is so that it is GIEK Credit Insurance that insures credit for fish exports. They have a frame of $20 billion. 53 pst. of which goes to the fishing industry. It is clear that it has remedied the situation of fish exports. The guarantee framework for Innovation Norway is something that we have also signed out. In addition, we also increase the leadership grant and provide funding for marketing grants, which have also been industry demands. Then we will continue to review the measures proposed by the industry. As regards export finance and several schemes here, there was a meeting between the industry and the departments concerned last week. We are now going through the proposals that the industry made. But here we just have to make sure that we don't put things on the table that make us in the best service do something that is contrary to international trade legislation, and next time the industry punishes harder than... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e157	Øyvind Korsberg – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e160	I think the industry now needs action and no more meetings with the department and other agencies. There are concrete proposals that need to be made to resolve this situation. Now the industry has made a number of long-term suggestions. By the middle of January, they made their demands. The government has put forward some proposals, which are good enough, but they have not worked well enough. It was probably a great disappointment on 26 January when the total packages were not in place. We have repeatedly taken up the situation in the fishing industry in this room and in other forums, but have met with little understanding from the Minister for Fisheries. So I just want to ask the Minister for Fisheries: when did she realize that there was a crisis in the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e169	As the global financial crisis struck the world last autumn, it was evident that it would also have consequences for all industries exporting goods from Norway to the outside world. I have always said that we must expect 2009 to be a very tough year for the coast. The government has responded with measures to address the turnover of fish. And we'll do that in the future. We're going to do what we can. But at the same time, no matter what measures the Government comes with, the fishing industry will continue to note the consequences of the crisis. In the case of guarantee frameworks, the industry recorded – before the package of measures was presented – that the need was 400 million. kr, including the frames you already had. The government has signed that out with the appropriations that came last week. After the action package was presented, the industry said that there was an additional need for 700 million. kr. It's very hard to register. However, the feedback we have received from Innovation Norway so far does not suggest that so far. today is a lack of money [[The President cut off]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e176	The President will stress that speaking time must be respected. I have got an extra speaker, so it is now much easier to hear when the posts stop! Otherwise, I would like to remind you of what the famous composer Stravinsky once said: Most of the musical pieces end too long after they are finished. [[Laughter]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e181	It wasn't a compliment, President!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e186	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e189	This isn't music. That's serious! I have noticed that the minister has several times used the words "quilted out." In an interview on the TV 2 news last night we heard a little about the situation of the fishermen in Napp in Lofoten. A number of employees have been granted leave. Some are already bankrupt. Representatives of the fishing industry said: It seems that she does not care that she is not involved in the industry. We do not have a Minister for Fisheries at all. This was the fishermen's opinion. So the minister said, the government can't give any guarantees – it's a direct quote. And further, I don't believe that the industry has asked for a crisis package as such. Is it the opinion of the Minister for Fisheries and Coast that the industry has not asked for a crisis package when the uses are closed, the boats are by land, and it is not a leadership subsidy to get the fish northwards to the fillet factories?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e198	I have a great deal of understanding of the despair and frustration that those affected by the financial crisis now feel. Nevertheless, I would like to distance myself from a description that says that as Minister of Fisheries I do not care about it. Of course I do. The ministry follows the situation from day to day. I've had meetings with the industry – I'm going to meet the industry today – I talk to operators from the industry on the phone every day. We've been very busy listening to the suggestions the industry has made, and many of them are also signed out. Then we need to consider new measures, introduce new measures as needed, for the fisheries industry as for other industries. It is clear that I have registered the wishes that have come from the industry for guarantees. That's what you've got. If it turns out it's not enough, we have to get back to it. So warranty frameworks have been given to the industry, but I cannot guarantee that the fishing industry is not affected by the situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e205	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e208	The package of measures is currently under discussion in the United Kingdom, and the Financial Committee is working on it and hearing from among others in these hours and days. the fishing industry. I agree that there has been some confusion about what the fishing industry needs. There are some vague and different signals, but what seems to be a great deal of agreement is that there is a need for action beyond what is on the table today. It is now time for this room to deal with the package of measures on Friday 13 February. It's an opportunity to do what needs to be done. In this context, I think it is obvious that additional credit frameworks, guarantee frameworks, are needed for loans to finance the liquidity flow in the value chain of the fishing industry. It requires, for example, due to uncertain times. in the markets, loss provisions. Is the Minister for Fisheries prepared to give such signals, including: to its own majority in the Storting, that one can make adjustments to this package of measures which enable these problems to be addressed and addressed in the short term? Friday 13th should not be Friday 13th in the negative sense of the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e219	In the package of measures to be dealt with by the Storting next week, there are very important measures for the fisheries industry that are helping the marketing of fish. The increased guarantee framework and the loss provisions for Innovation Norway are a very important contribution to this. The fact that there has been a proposal to increase the loss provisions to 320 million. kr, allowing Innovation Norway to enter and take greater risks. It has also been a very important message from the fishing industry. Then I keep in touch with my colleagues in the government. I also have daily contact with our representatives at Stortinget so that from day to day we will have a good overview of how things are going in the industry, what the needs are. Of course, the government is prepared to put in place the necessary measures when necessary. I'm asking for understanding that I can't stand here today on the pulpit and promise neither millions nor billions, but we're very busy listening to the industry and the suggestions that come from there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e229	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e232	My question goes to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. As we have seen earlier today, the global financial crisis has also hit the fishing industry with full force. There is a problem that has been addressed with the Council of State over a long period of time in different forums, both in this room and elsewhere. The response from the Council of State has always been to follow the situation closely and to consider different measures. Many expected to find some solutions on 26 January. The measures that came there were, as I said earlier, to a great extent, but they do not meet the challenges facing the industry and are too little targeted. The current situation is that there is almost full stop in the reception and marketing of fish, especially cod, that are inside the main season. Permits, redundancies and bankruptcies are experienced, and they have serious and long-term economic consequences, both for the fleet, for industry and not least for all coastal communities. The situation requires that there be a solution, especially now, as it is in the middle of cod fishing – and before the cod swims its way. I don't think the cod has intended to wait for this government to come up with its solutions. Now it is the case that the industry has made a number of contributions to the Government in this matter, but little of it has been followed up. The question then is, what will the Government do specifically to ensure the credit and money flow in the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e243	First of all, I guess there's no disagreement about the reality description here. The global financial crisis is serious, and it also has implications for the fishing industry. It is quite obvious that both businesses and communities are hit very hard. In the package of measures presented last week, the government has increased the framework of Innovation Norway, among others. after very strong input from the fishing industry. We have increased the high-risk loan arrangements to improve the availability of capital, and not least we have increased the guarantee framework. It provides room for innovation Norway and the fish sales laws to conclude new guarantee agreements that will facilitate the marketing of fish. The actors are now discussing how such an agreement should look, and I assume that it will be in place quickly. But no matter how fast the government has worked, and no matter how effective Innovation Norway and the fish sales laws are now in reaching a new agreement, they cannot necessarily start using that money until the Storting has adopted the package of measures, and that happens next week. But the work on putting the package into action is in full swing. So I want to show that the government has also increased the frames of LOOK considerably. It has also had an impact on GIEK Credit Insurance, which is credit insurance for fish. 53 pst. of their portfolio goes to fish. In addition to this, we have also allocated funds for leadership grants and marketing grants, which have been a requirement of the fishing industry, as well as the short-term tax relief scheme, which is also consistent with the fishing industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e252	I thank the Council of State for the answer. We probably agree on the reality description of the serious situation facing the fishing industry and the possible consequences. What we don't have the same idea about is what types of solutions it's possible to get. The Council of State consistently refers to what has been provided by measures such as: through Innovation Norway and enhanced frameworks, but it is not enough to ensure this industry stable and good framework conditions in the future. The industry is in an acute crisis. There has been no lack of input from organisations, single businesses or coastal communities to find solutions. But there are solutions the Council of State obviously does not want to give signals about coming. Now a new package is to be presented on Monday. Can the Council of State guarantee that in that package there will also be measures for the fishing industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e257	With regard to the increased guarantee frameworks given to Innovation in Norway, the feedback we have received is so far that within those funds there is room for establishing good agreements and for continuing and extending the agreements with Innovation in Norway. The agreements keep the Sales Act and Innovation Norway working with now. When they have done so, you must, of course, come back to the matter if it turns out that you do not get satisfactory agreements within those frameworks. But we don't have information per. Today that this is too scarce with funds.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e262	There will be three follow-up questions – first, Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e265	It is possible that the Council of State will be able to convince the media that she is capable of action, but I doubt that she will be able to convince me that it will be in the Norwegian Sea until the Government has done something about this matter. Two communities in Northern Ireland, Train and Røst, accept as much fish as they can. They could have received more, but the power supply in the region is such that they cannot produce more than they do today. This is a situation described by State Secretary Stubholt in the Oil and Energy Ministry in Helgelands Blad on 27 January as unfortunate and unfortunate. This situation contributes to not getting as much fish in the area as you could have done otherwise. Then is my question to the Council of State: will the Council of State take the initiative to resolve this matter now in the context of the financial crisis package, so that this situation can be helped not to recur in the winter of 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e272	It is quite clear that, in addition to the financial instruments, the tools we have to help the fishing industry, infrastructure is also important. It's about road, it's about track, it's about fishing ports and ferries. There are areas where everyone was given a huge boost in the package of measures presented last week. Then it's also about infrastructure like broadband, where the government has also made a boost, and of course also about power supply. I am confident that the Ministry of Oil and Energy will pay attention to this and work with it. In addition to that, I cannot stand here and give any promises and guarantees as to which individual measures in terms of power supply and infrastructure, the Government will join in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e277	Ivar Kristiansen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e280	Since long before Christmas, an overall fishing industry has had one main requirement, and export guarantees are required. This isn't in place. A total fishery industry has repeatedly repeated that it is what needs to be put in place to avoid an industry exporting 94 pst. of its production, not falling entirely out of the market, that production is not around Norwegian quays in the time to come. Will the Council now ensure that this export guarantee scheme comes into place, or will it not? The reception capacity has now been reduced by more than 50 pst. Apply after use closes now. Today, for example, prestigious J. M. Nilsen is shutting down on Andeya. I think an overall Norwegian fishing industry understands that being a Vice-President of the Norwegian Workers' Party is sometimes burdensome, but I think it is now necessary for us to have a Fisheries Minister who takes into account the seriousness of today's situation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e285	I can assure you that both the Vice-President of the Labour Party and the Minister for Fisheries are taking the situation in the fishing industry very seriously. Several measures have been proposed by the fishing industry to address the current situation of the industry. There are low-risk loan schemes in Innovation Norway, where there has been a formidable increase, it is the high-risk loan schemes, which have also been greatly increased and which will remedy the situation in the fishing industry, and it is the guarantee scheme, where the fishing industry said it needed 400 million. kr, including the frames it already had. It was signed in the package of measures last week. Then, after the package of measures was presented, it recorded a desire for an additional 700 million. kr, and there I say: now we have to see what Innovation Norway gets within the limits they have. So far they haven't recorded the need for more money. If they do, we will get back to the case then. The industry has also requested leadership grants/marketing grants. There are also things that the government has signed out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e291	Jan Sahl – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e294	With regard to the package of measures, it may seem that the government parties have forgotten the primary industries, for both fisheries and agriculture have strong requirements for things to be fulfilled in the crisis package. But when the Fiskeribladet reports that we are ‘on the edge of the stump’, we have to put the polemic to the side. Then I'm going to be very specific in the questions, because now this package of measures is being dealt with in the Storting, and then there are two things that are important. One mentioned Ivar Kristiansen just, what was on export guarantees. But there are important measures to be taken on the quay, which the minister has already mentioned. My question is then: will the representatives of the government parties in the financial committee now be given the opportunity to increase the credit guarantee and to make more money for leadership grants, so that fishermen can see brighter times and fish buyers can reopen their uses?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e299	I just want to remind you that we have two historic agricultural settlements behind us, just so that's said. As far as the leadership grants are concerned, we've increased them. We did that last week, and I'm willing to increase the arrangements further. We're going to get back to that in this week. That industry is concerned about is not only the size of the lead grant, but also the device on it, and there I am determined that we will meet what the raw fish team in particular has asked for. With regard to export guarantees, we have increased the framework. It's good for the industry. Then they've recorded that you need to reorganize the arrangements in a different way. There have been meetings about that. There are things that we're going through. We consider measures, but we must be absolutely sure that the things we do to the fishing industry do not lead to the punishment of international trade legislation. We have to be careful about that, otherwise we'll do the industry a bear service.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e308	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e311	I want to ask the Minister for the Environment and Development a question. The government says that we should be a leading country in climate and environmental policy. We have some obligations in terms of emission reductions: we're going to be 1 pst. above 1990 levels in 2012. That is our commitment in the Kyoto Protocol. But what's the situation today is that we're 11 pst. over. Our emissions have increased, and not decreased, in recent years. Then, too, the Government has strengthened its own commitments. They say we average from 2008 to 2012, we're going to be 9 pst. under our commitments under the Kyoto Protocol. So we're going to have to go even further down and not up. On questions about how we should do this, the Government says that we should do so through a combination of national measures and quota purchases. But a significant part is going to happen here at home, it says in the climate communication. However, the situation is that in 2008 allowances were not purchased, and we also look at forecasts from the Government, which was presented last month, that with current instruments in Norway, all sectors, with the exception of the petroleum sector, will have an increase in emissions by 2020. The emissions are increasing, and we're going to decrease. It can be done easily by buying ourselves free, but it will break the government's policy. My question is, when we are now one year into the Kyoto Protocol period, what will the Minister do to ensure that Norway's commitments are met?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e320	Me and the Government share the questioner's concern about how we are going to implement all the measures that will be necessary to achieve the goals set by the Stortinge in the climate agreement. That is why we have also asked the State's pollution control authorities to turn each stone and go through all areas to see what the potential for reduced emissions is and how it can be achieved. What can be achieved in industry? What can be achieved in oil activities? What can be achieved on transport? And what can be achieved on energy in building? It is in these main sectors that we need to achieve the emission targets. We want to get on the table what is possible, and what is the cost of it, so that the Storting gets a menu where you can choose between the different measures. If Norway and the world are to achieve the goals we want to set in Copenhagen – the EU has now expired by 30 pst. reduction, Norway has said that about 20 p.m., within the framework of 30 p.m., should be taken home – we need to have a technological revolution. The one big question we have to ask ourselves is, what can we do to drive forward the technological change in our business life that is necessary to achieve this? These are two things: one is how we can use the technology that already exists as quickly as possible, too much profitable technology is not being used, for example. energy efficiency measures. There was also an important reason why this is a main area of the government's green crisis package: using the technology that already exists, and getting it done now, so that we get emission reductions now. But more important to 2020 is that we need a major structural transformation of our business and international business, and a technological revolution, to put in place electric cars and plug-in hybrid cars, to put in place new and much more modern energy solutions, and to put in place what Americans call a smart grid, that is, all that can make us reach our goal in Copenhagen – and it won't be easy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e327	I thank you for your answer. If I don't remember completely wrong, we got a new government in 2005, by a majority, and you had two and a half years before the Kyoto period started, to add up how to bring down our emissions by 1 pst, and 10 pst., which is the over-fulfilment, as the Government itself has said. So the Council of State talks about Climate Change 2020. The report will be delivered in November this year, and if we are lucky, the Stortinget will be presented in 2010, and then we will have a year and a half in relation to the goals we are going to achieve. Does the Council of States see that we're behind, that there's a starting point -- more urgent -- in meeting these obligations, or are we going to say that there's going to be quota purchases, that's how we get out of this situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e336	I don't think anyone who has followed Norwegian policy over the last few years, a second is in doubt about what fundamental environmental change came in Norway with the red-green government compared to the previous government. In the area by area we have been on the offensive. Last autumn, we received the greenest government budget ever made available in Norway, with the largest allocations to the environment. We have the greenest crisis package, much greener than any budget presented in Norway, as the government presented last week. We have a great international effort on rainforests that arouse great international activity. And we have launched the largest technology project in the field of carbon capture and storage in a state-private partnership, precisely what is being talked about in Davos and in Copenhagen and everywhere that you have to have. We're completely different on the offensive. But even this is not enough, because we are not doing enough to bring about the technology revolution in the world that Norway can be part of, but that Norway cannot do alone. The interesting phenomenon I now notice is that more and more business leaders say we regulate more, so that we get technological change faster – and I will come back and invite the Storting to a debate on how we can get more regulation, so that we get the new technology faster. [[(The President cut off):]] [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e343	It looks like the members of the government today are competing for a break in speaking time. There will be follow-up questions – first Hans Olav Syversen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e348	For a moment, I thought there was more of a revival preacher standing on the pulpit than a councillor, but it might be combined. I'm not sure everyone's yelling hallelujah at what the council said. After all, it was a powerful certificate of self-determination by this government's management of the climate challenges, even though it is acknowledged that you may not be fully in target. I do not know if the Council of State has any passionate relationship with lap times and forms. But I have that in the case of skates, and I can only note that we are quite far behind the form. What is the stance of the Council of State on the further form? If you want to follow the lap times you've added up to now, you'll come all the way back. Is it also the case that the Council of State sees to it that we should intensify climate policy, or has it given up the original form and changed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e355	Let me first say that I think it's probably right that one of the very few areas for which I have a talent, as well as politics, is like revival preachers, so I see opportunities there if that's so wrong that the government falls. Leave it. We can put party politics aside and try to look forward to the Copenhagen negotiations and how we can succeed with them. We have to do a lot of things in developing countries, but also let it go. The most important thing we have to do in the rich part of the world is to drive forward a technology revolution that enables us to put new technology into place in a series of areas, to put into practice the technology that exists, but above all to put in place renewable energy, solar, wind power and all these things much faster than what we are doing today. We have to do that through state-private partnerships, because there is not enough investment capital in business to make this happen only in the private sector, and we have to do it by regulating business more. The interesting thing is that Skanska came to me a short time ago and said: Regulate the construction market more. Wilhelmsen said: Regulate shipping more. Then the companies that are ahead of technological development will benefit. Those who hang out for it will have disadvantages. But that's how the market should work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e365	Torbjørn Andersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e368	It must be embarrassing for this government, which has gone so high on the track and boasted of actually making a Norwegian moon landing in climate policy, to see Norway among other things. in 2007 set a new emission record of 55 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent. That's equal to our entire 11 pst. after the annual Kyoto commitments entered into by the Government for the country. I believe that we must already realise that Norway will not be able to meet its Kyoto commitments in the 2008-2012 period without large allowances. Well, that's good, but is that really what the government wants? Does this council not realise that the Norwegian climate target under the Kyoto commitments, where, as far as I am aware, 2/3 should be cut at home, now seems very difficult to achieve? The whole Kyoto obligation is likely to eventually have to be filled with the maximum purchase of allowances in the international allowance market. Has not this government really completely bombed with its unrealistic climate ambitions?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e378	Should not the Advance Party begin by clarifying whether the party itself is concerned about the warming of the earth, and that it is a real problem? There is still a 20 pst party in Norway. opening up, clarifying whether we have a climate problem in the world. There was not one leader in Davos, with the exception of the President of the Czech Republic, who was in doubt about it, and there was not one business manager in doubt about it. But in Norway we have a party that travels around and is going to win votes to so doubt what is the greatest challenge in our time. I have to ask the Progress Party to clarify for itself whether this is a problem, before you start asking others what to do with the solution of the problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e383	Peter Skovholt Gitmark – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e386	The superstructure for the whole of Stortinget is that the Copenhagen negotiations must succeed. To do that, I think the Council of State needs a little less self-esteem and a little more focus on reality. Greenhouse gas emissions were on the way down when this government took over. Now they're on their way up. We had a promise from this government to return to Norway as an environmental nation, and it followed the predecessors of the Council of State up in Political Quarter on 11 January 2007 saying: We are getting reduced emissions in this period as well. There has never been a lack of promises from this government, either at this point, but we see that the legacy of Erik Solheim and this government will be the sale of cheap allowances to the EU and a climate settlement with the opposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e395	Let me just repeat – it is then accused of self-responsiveness – that it was a completely fundamental and fundamental conversion of Norwegian environmental policy that occurred when the red-green government replaced the Bondevik government. But we can't stop there. Now we have to start looking forward. The important question is, how do we get to a climate-right relationship? How do we get to the climate-friendly industry? And how do we get a climate-right energy supply? These are the three main areas. On the road, we need a rapid phase-in of plug-in hybrid cars and electric cars. That's why we've now started building charging stations, so we can get the infrastructure in place. So in the moment that Toyota and the others deliver these cars to the mass market – they say it's in 2011–2012 – we can get the phase-in of it very, very quickly. Similarly, we must look at industry. How quickly is it possible to obtain CO2 management based on experience in Mongstad and Kårstø, and what cleaning measures are possible for the large Norwegian point emissions? Then we have to go to the energy supply – and there we are doing well in the crisis package – and look at how we can phase in the technology that already exists. For here it is not about new future technology, but about technology that is already there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e405	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e408	The Minister for the Environment's description of the policy positions in climate policy is wrong. When the government made its climate announcement, it was only the Progress Party that was excited. It was through negotiations with the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left that one got more radical instruments and more ambitious goals. Many of the results that the Council of State now boasts are the result of the climate agreement negotiated through the demands of these parties. I stand here with a list of the points in the climate agreement that have not yet been followed up, and my question to the Council of State is: When will the Government deliver what a committed to in the climate agreement? And then I have a question number. 2nd@item: inlistbox When the Right Party, the Left Party and the Christian People's Party made their demands, there were many points that they were not willing to agree to in the climate agreement. There were more radical instruments and more ambitious goals than what the government was ripe to participate in. Are you now in a situation where the Council of State will again go through those points that one last year rejected because they were too ambitious?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e417	Let me first say that we had an excellent dialogue with three of the opposition parties in connection with the climate agreement, and the climate agreement is the basis for the government's action. Let me also remind the representative of Kvassheim that when the government presented its government budget last fall, the leader of the Left acknowledged that this government is delivering on the climate agreement. So here's a little jump and jump from the left hand side as to whether it's delivered or not delivered. I would like to ask – of course formally at a later stage – the Presidentship of the Storting to be allowed to give a statement to the Stortinget on the situation in the negotiation process up to the Copenhagen meeting, including, of course, the point by point how it is delivered on the climate agreement, and what we need to have of increased ambitions over the next four years if we are to achieve the very ambitious goals we have set ourselves towards 2020.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e424	Then we go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e427	I ask permission to ask a question to the Council of State Navarsete, which is on the side of her field as Minister of Transport, on the grounds that the Council of State has in recent days been the spokesman for the Government in an important question in another area. I think it's right to bring it into the main hall – because it's in all the other halls. We woke up today until the morning news that the Council of State Navarsete – on behalf of itself and the Central Party – has turned this important issue around, and that it is therefore not appropriate to stumble through a proposal for an alternative to the Blasphemic paragraph. We also heard that the councillor, well assisted by former councillor Gudmund Hernes, took Obama's words in his mouth and said that it was made a mistake, she had messed it up. One might, in such a situation, be hesitating to do right – I don't want to. I would like to congratulate the Council of State on making a wise decision. Many believe that it took a long time for a wise decision to be made. Nevertheless, I think we should give commendation for making a tough decision under pressure. What worries me a little bit more is the reason given by the Council of State that the public space had not understood the genius of this central party proposal. We have all learned from the folk adventures that when trolls come out into the light, they crack – that was also the case with this proposal. But that's not what matters to me. The most important thing is to believe in public space, in the debate, and in the behaviour of wise people in public space, to take down what we don't like, also of opinions. I'm against hateful remarks. I don't want to forbid it, but I just want to use the public space as we've seen in the last few days that it can work – by taking down hateful statements and what's wrong. That is how democracy should work. My question is: Has the Council of State learned the importance of public space – debate, smart editors, other actors and the role of debaters – and to let the troll crack when it comes to the light?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e439	The President, as the questioner, will show that this is not the constitutional responsibility of the Council of State. It's up to the council if she wants to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e442	It is the Minister of Justice's constitutional sphere of this matter. It is the Minister of Justice who has drafted the compromise presented to the Grand Duchy, and it is the Minister of Justice who is responsible for what has been presented on behalf of the Government. Nevertheless, I choose to make some comments on the matter, as the matter is in Stortinget, and, as the representative Sponheim says, I have spoken on behalf of both the party and the government. Let me first say: the centre party shall protect the freedom of expression. We've always stood up for freedom of speech, and we're always going to do it. We have openness, popular rule and free vocabulary as the basic element of our basis of values. And it was our prime minister who first made the public promise, which is an important basis for public change of words and transparency in processes. Our intention has not been to restrict freedom of expression. When one was about to introduce a new penal code, the Centre wanted to keep the paragraph on blasphemy, which has been asleep. The problem is that when you pass a new law, all the paragraphs are reactivated, and that makes it difficult. That is why we found a compromise which would be less extensive, which would extend freedom of expression, not restrict it. We should find a compromise that also protects the public space from the most hateful statements. So I take the self-criticism that we haven't done a good enough pre-work before the compromise was presented to Stortinget. The public debate that has been held has shown that. Then I think it's right to listen to the public debate. That's exactly why we have a public debate – we have to listen and then draw conclusions. I have, and I have submitted that today. I'm asking you to respect that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e451	Yeah, I respect it. I'm glad that the principle thinking has finally won out on this question. But there is just as much left, what is important to me, namely a recognition by the Council of State of the importance of public space, that matters – and in particular of a principle like this – have to be tried and debated in public space before a decision can be made. That is how our democracy works. There is also another side to this that has emerged in the last few days, which not only goes on freedom of expression and restriction of freedom of expression, and what it can lead to in courts, etc. In the future, but a view from the Government — not least the Prime Minister has sometimes said so — that there is a time for decision and for debate, and there is a time for implementation. So here debate and decision have been taken in a closed room in the Government, and then you don't want to take this debate in public space, and then make a final decision in the Stortinget. Then my question is: has the Council of State learned that public space is one of the best and most important things we have in our democracy? It's going to be used positively, and it's also going to be used to combat statements.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e460	I thought it was in the answer I gave that I – before this case came out – have the greatest respect and acknowledge discussions in the public space. Nor have I recoiled to participate in discussions about this matter or other difficult things in the public space, because it helps shape our opinions and shape our society. As you can see, the paragraph that is the basis for the discussion we now have has been shaping social views in an earlier era, even though the blasphemy paragraph has been dormant for quite many years. So I answer briefly: yes, a learner takes the whole way – fortunately. As a leader of the Center Party, I am still able to learn. Therefore, it is good that one has such processes as one can learn from and take part in the further political work. So becomes a wise political leader, and I believe our society will ultimately benefit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e465	There will be follow-up questions – Gunnar Kvassheim.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e468	This issue is essentially about the role of the Storting and the importance of the public debate. I would like to ask follow-up questions to the Minister for Fisheries, the Vice-President of the Workers' Party. This case has shown two things. It is that the Government has bad instincts on matters of freedom of expression and transparency, and that there is a lack of respect for the role of the Storting and the importance of the public debate. As Lars Sponheim pointed out, Jens Stoltenberg has said that there is one time for debate and one time for decision. In this issue of blasphemy, decisions were made. The debate was not necessary. It was given what was the result in Stortinget. In the view of the Left, the public debate is an important part of our democracy in order to ensure quality decisions. I would like to ask the Vice-President of the Workers' Party, who is now putting the last hand of the Party programme: what vision of democracy will be reflected there – what the Prime Minister stands for, or what I have purposed here on behalf of the Left?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e475	The Council of State is not directly responsible for this in the Chamber here. But it's up to the state councillor Helga Pedersen if she wants to answer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e478	It is true that this is not part of the responsibility of the Ministry of Fisheries and Coastal Affairs. However, let me take the opportunity to say that the Workers' Party is for democracy. It will be reflected in our new program, which will be presented tomorrow. We are also in favour of freedom of expression, and the new law takes that into account. Otherwise, I have nothing to add in relation to what the Prime Minister has said and what Liv Signe Navarsete has said as head of the Central Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e485	Siv Jensen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e488	I have a follow-up question for the Minister of Transport. It is not just the freedom of expression of the central party councils that has become involved lately. She has also dealt with the Public Relations Act. Since this change of words is about debates in public space, I would challenge the Minister of Transport to withhold information for the Stortinge regarding the underlying material of the package of measures in the road sector. It is true that both the Progress Party and other opposition parties have for several weeks asked for access to material from both the Railway Agency and the State Road Service in terms of scope of projects and the routes that are now ready to be developed. That information is withheld by the Council of State. That information cannot be accessed by the Stortinget. I would like to know if the Council of State has come up with better ideas, after she has come up with better ideas about freedom of expression, and will release these documents immediately to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e497	In the preparation of the budget paper for the Storting, there have been many recordings from the Railway Agency, from the State Road Administration and other substantiating etats. That's the way it was in this case as well. The same way we draw up a budget, it's not like we get a list: here are the projects that are ready. There's a process going on and on. We've got more lists. Projects that were on some lists have been withdrawn because they have quality assurance. The Road Directorate has found that we cannot go into these projects anyway. We've had communications, we've had phone calls and e-mails. There is no list from the State Road Service that says this is the project we are in favour of. It does not exist. There is a starting point that has been worked through in many ways – in cooperation between the Ministry of Transport and the State Road Administration and the Ministry of Transport and the Railway Agency. That's what budgetary processes do. If Siv Jensen had a seat in a department, she would know. That is why it is also the case that the supporting documents for the budget have not been published. It's the exact same foundation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e503	Per-Kristian Foss – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e506	I am deeply reassured that the Workers' Party is now in favour of democracy. So I think I'm sticking to the Minister of Transport and to the main theme from the first questioner. I understand that the Navarsete Government Council believes that the reason for the withdrawal of the proposal is that one is misunderstood. My question is really whether the real reason is that you have been understood. For a number of participants, the debate has taken place to explain the Government’s proposal, which has now been drawn — including the Prime Minister, also known as the major communicator, although it is an expression that was made with a certain undertone of irony. At the same time, the Church and a number of media professionals in freedom of expression have participated. Nevertheless, I understand that one is still misunderstood. Does the Council really believe that none of the actors in the debate have actually understood the proposal correctly?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e515	What I have said today is that we must note that the process and debate do not in any way reflect our intentions and our views, simply to extend the freedom of expression in relation to today's blasphemy paragraph. If today's blasphemic paragraph were incorporated into a new law, he would be renewed, revived and so seen to be much stronger than the compromise presented. It has not been easy to get through that view in the context of the restriction made in the preliminary work of the Ministry of Justice. That was the compromise – an extension of freedom of expression while at the same time preserving a society’s need to protect itself from the worst outcomes against religion. I don't think there's the impression people in this country are left with after the debate that's gone into the public space. That is why I said that I feel that we have not achieved what was our intention of the proposal. I don't owe anyone to misunderstand.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e522	Dagfinn Højbråten – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e525	Before the big elections Jens Stoltenberg agitated intensely for the excellence of the majority government with the concepts: now you have to vote on the red-greens to let go of games, specks, rematches and all that hesitated there. The next time the Prime Minister makes this statement about the non-socialist side and the opposition, we can well now say that he is an expert. Like the representative Sponheim, I would like to pay tribute to the head of the Central Party, Navarsete State Council, who has taken overtime censuses and helped clear up a difficult case for Norway. It cannot be said that there is too much religious criticism in Norway. It's good with religious criticism, at least we mean it. The real challenge is, of course, that some people do not dare to make specific comments because extreme groups face opinions about threats and violence. At least we shouldn't make such groups kneel for. What remains in this room today is well to know how the government intends to notify the Storting of the changes in the matter that the Storting now has to deal with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e536	I thank you for the good words of the representative, Høybräten. Size has a proposition for processing. The size groups will deal with him in a regulatory manner and, of course, also express their views on the government party. So I'm assuming that the proposition will be treated here with the signals that are now given by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e543	So the oral questioning process is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e548	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 1, from the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister for Finance, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. Question 13, from the representative Jan Sahl to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, is postponed until the next Question Time when the Council of State has left. In addition, question 9 went away from Bent Höie to the Minister of Justice, when the questioner was not present.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e562	From the representative Svein Flätten to the Minister for Finance: ‘The work of new legislation on savings banks and the improvement of the status of the basic fund certificate as an equity instrument has gone too late. When the Banking Law Commission now submits its proposal for amendments, will the Council of State facilitate consultation and the necessary legislative proposals to be submitted to the Budget for consideration during the spring session?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e570	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e573	We go to question 2, which is from the representative Arne Sortevik to the Minister for Transport. Arne Sortevik is not present in the room right now. So we're going to go to question 3, from Anne Margrethe Larsen, who's also to the Council of Navarsete. Then we can come back to Arne Sortevik if he comes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e581	I have a question for the Minister for Transport about bus services: ‘To achieve Norway’s climate targets and greenhouse gas reduction, it is, among other things, important to focus on good community services in cities and between cities. The new year’s contribution to the population of the entire West Agder, especially in the Mandal district, is a significant reduction in the number of busses. This is surprising and clearly in contravention of all the speeches from an overall political environment. The bus is the ‘life’ nerve in a large housing and labour market and for evening activities. The parties owe each other, people despair. Can the Council of States influence this unfortunate development?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e595	The municipalities and the municipalities of Oslo are responsible for the local public transport, with the exception of the railways, the national road ferries and the Kystruta Bergen-Kirkenes. Within their free revenues, i.e. taxes and rebates, the county authorities themselves must give priority to public transport and other municipal purposes. The government is very busy securing the municipalities and municipalities' finances to provide the inhabitants with a good supply. This is important for many reasons, not only for greenhouse gas emissions. The budget of the Ministry of Local and Regional Affairs has therefore been considerably increased during this government, and the municipal sector has received 30 billion more to travel with during the period. This should include: allow municipalities/municipalities to develop good supply in the field of transport. In recent months, the fall in crude oil prices — and hence fuel prices — is also positive for the public transport sector. In addition to the funds channelled through the framework, municipalities may apply to the Ministry of Transport for ear-marked collective funds from one or more of the funding arrangements of the Ministry of Justice. The arrangements are partly introduced, partly strengthened, under this government, and I will mention three: Through the county municipalities, the largest cities can search for funds from the reward scheme for better public transport and less car use. These schemes were introduced in 2004, with a promise of DKK 100 million. For 2009, the promise is 323 million. kr. The aim of the scheme is to influence the development of transport in the major urban areas, with a multiplicity of public transport rather than private cars. It is a commitment that funds will be used to improve the competitiveness of public transport vis-à-vis passenger cars, but in addition to this, no guidance will be provided on what kind of measures the funds can finance. In addition to strengthening public transport in metropolitan areas, the Government strengthens public transport in the districts. In 2007, the Government launched the ‘Better public transport in the district’ programme. The duration of this program is 21 million. kr in 2009. The programme is a collaboration with the county councils, and all county councils are invited to search. The aim is to implement measures to demonstrate how collective provision to travellers in the districts, or between districts and towns or cities can be strengthened by more effective coordination of resources and instruments. The system of availability measures is also targeted at municipalities and aims at stimulating local work for the better accessibility of disabled people to public transport. These funds will be used for collective action, and most of the measures will benefit all passengers. That's set of 56 million. SEK to the scheme in 2009. The government will continue its efforts to strengthen the overall economic space for municipalities and county municipalities. The government will also continue to invest in public transport. When it comes to prioritisation between the various local services, I think the municipality, together with the municipal authorities, is best placed to assess the types of collective services that are best for local residents. In this context, priority should also be given to pooling collective services within the available frameworks. I mean this is a proper approach, and I don't want any stronger governance of the state in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e612	I thank you for your answer. I understand that it is the county council that has a primary responsibility to provide the inhabitants with a good bus service, and there are many factors here, as the council said. Increased prices have been discussed and, at the same time, there is a great gap between wage and salary agreements and the contribution of the country. Don't the Council of State and the State have a responsibility here?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e619	In order to ensure the recruitment of the important bus driver, it has been necessary to improve the framework conditions. We were in a situation where one had a very bad recruitment, and I hope that we now might improve it. The permissions of the county councils are considerably strengthened under this government. What priorities the different states choose to do within their frameworks is difficult to manage, and it is not inconceivable that we should govern them. I have that confidence in our state politicians that they can do it the best way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e626	I thank you for your response. The population of West Agder – especially those in the Mandal district – is very dismayed by this situation. With fewer bus departs, this is going in the wrong direction – yes, we can risk getting more cars on the roads. Kristiansand reports a decrease in the number of bus passengers due to the presence of the city. As the Council of State mentioned in its main response, rewarding means are a very important measure here. The reward for public transport is therefore crucial for the further investment in West Agder. Is the Council willing to give the district a solid promise, with rewards for collective provision?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e635	There is a code for the reward scheme. It is determined who can search, and also in Agder – with Kristiansand and surrounding – is a welcome to search. What's fine is that one in the Kristiansand area has raised collective provision as an important measure. A real attempt to do something to restrict car traffic. This means that one of course also comes into a position where it is possible to get its share of the funds. I haven't distributed the funds for 2009, so I can't comment on it, but I want to look at the areas where a real grip is taking to reduce car use and get an environmentally friendly development in traffic.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e642	Arne Sortevik has then taken his seat and will be asked his question to Minister for Transport Liv Signe Navarsete.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e649	I thank the President for his goodwill and regret that there was a little bit of a problem on the exchange side between oral and regular Question Time. The question to the Minister for Transport is: ‘In 2008, 256 people were killed in traffic in Norway. The number of fatal accidents has increased by 10 pst. in relation to 2007. The whole 171 of the fatalities are drivers or passengers. The number of pedestrians killed has increased from 23 to 30. Hordaland, More and Romesdal and Hedmark have most perished. In 2008, our neighbouring country Sweden had the lowest death toll in traffic since 1945, and last year the figure was reduced by 10 pst. Developments in the number of fatal accidents are highly worrying. What will the Council of State do in the short term to reduce the number of fatal accidents?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e660	The increase in the number of fatalities in traffic in 2008 is alarming. The last figures from the Statistical Central Bureau indicate that the number is as high as 259. I share the dismay of the representative of Sortevik when it comes to implementing measures to bring us back to the positive developments we had in the period up to 2006. The Ministry saw traces of the negative developments already in early 2008, and it is against that background that the budget for 2009. I would like to quote from St. prp. No 1, page 54, under the heading ‘Increased efforts in the 2009 Traffic Safety Package’: ‘In 2009, the Ministry of Transport will strengthen the commitment to measures to improve road safety through a complex and targeted package of road safety in infrastructure, road and vehicle investment and operation and maintenance.’ Furthermore, it is important that the bet will be carried forward before the National Transport Plan 2010-2019 framework, which the Ministry will present in a short time. The initiative in 2009 is close to a doubling of the funds for specific road safety measures, with a pooling of over DKK 1 billion. The listed traffic security package contains 16 points that are prioritised in 2009. Here I want to mention the following: construction of four-field motorways and construction of two- and three-field mid-carriers in order to prevent the closing of meetings prioritisation of operational and maintenance tasks such as ensuring road safety, including drilling, salting and ironing of non-clouding measures after road safety inspections introduction of route ATK, i.e. photoboxes measuring average speed over a distance securing of crossing points for walking and cycling bets on outdoor controls, including seat belt checks proposals to double the safety belt fee changes in driver card nitrification schemes; The last point has been completed, and there is a warning of an additional tightening in the case of young drivers’ groups. Several of the measures included in the crisis package put forward on 26 January are also good road safety measures. For clean road safety measures in the fields of traffic supervision, operation and maintenance, and for protective measures along existing roads, new commitments totaling 380 million have been proposed. kr. In order to reduce the number of fatalities and heavy injuries, it is crucial that road users are aware of their responsibility to travel carefully in traffic. Good training and maintenance work are important for road users to contribute to road safety behaviour. Driver training, introduced in 2005, places greater emphasis on road safety by focusing on risk understanding and crowd training. Training is expected to be an important tool to reduce the risk of accidents among young people. Driver training is evaluated and minor adjustments and adjustments are made in the course. The state road authorities are planning a speed campaign in connection with the police, starting in April/May this year. The campaign will consist of three important elements: a campaign part, an intensification of control activities and a review of the speed limit system. In the case of measures in the slightly longer term, i.e.: Measures included in the National Transport Plan will bring me back with a closer review when the National Transport Plan for 2010–2019 is submitted to the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e707	I would like to thank you for a comprehensive answer. I want to focus in particular on short-term measures. Young people with a fresh driving licence have a 40-fold higher risk than the average driver to end up in meeting/driving accidents. Half of the youth accidents in 2008 were road accidents. Intensification of the dot-load system is clearly a measure that can and should be used. Different legislation is reasonable where driving culture, skills and experience differ. It is also possible to withdraw the driving licence more quickly, e.g. in the case of rough, unwise driving, which is most often expressed by gross speed infringements. What will the Council of State do in the short term to tighten the dot load for young people and, where appropriate, will it also use more stringent reactions in the form of driving licences?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e716	We are in the design phase of a proposal that I will of course come back with when there is a tightening of the dot tax system. It is simply a matter of reducing the tolerance limit for young people between 18 and 24 years of age than for other road users, precisely because numbers are those referred to by the Blackevik representative. We are forced to go in and see what measures can help. In my dialogue with young people, they tell me that the worst thing that can happen is that they lose the note. So I totally agree with the approach of the representative of Sortevik, that we need to have stricter restrictions and faster seizures. We cooperate with the Ministry of Justice on this, because it is the law enforcement department. It is also important that we step up checks on the roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e723	I thank you again for the answer. It is gratifying to hear that we have a coherent view of the two concrete measures. My follow-up goes on what I raised in the main question, namely the comparison with Sweden. It is well known that Sweden has a better motorway network and a better road network in general. They probably have several roads with middle parts, and it is possible that they also have a more secure road maintenance. In general, however, the situation is that developments in the number of fatalities in traffic are going on in a different direction in Sweden than they do in Norway. The number is increasing in Norway. So it goes further down in Sweden, and is among the lowest among very many countries it is natural to compare with. What will the Council of State do to gain experience from Sweden, to learn from Sweden, in areas not directly related to the road system itself and the road network, but relating to both driving licence training, driving licence control and attitude work?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e732	Comparing with Sweden is of course relevant. It's about two countries with a reasonable level of geography, although Sweden probably has a larger area of flat landscapes than we have in our country, and it's a little easier. When we look at the statistics from Sweden, we see that the number of accidents has increased overall, while the number of the most serious accidents, which kill and open with severe damage, has fallen. In Norway, it's the opposite. In Norway, the total number of hatches has been reduced, while the consequences of the hatches have increased. There's no doubt that it's related to what came out on the introductory main question: age groups and speed. In Norway, the speed has unfortunately increased considerably, and we have to do something about it. I have a good relationship with Sweden. The numbers of deadlocks also increase from 2006 to 2007, with 26 people, but they have developed well over the past few years. They've learned from us when it's about driver training, but we're also going to learn from them when it comes to what they're doing. So we have a good dialogue, including with Torstenson, who is my colleague in Sweden when this is the case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e741	Then we go to question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e747	‘In the Oslo area, more and more roads have introduced so-called ‘Environmental Speed Limits’ in the winter half of the year. This means that the speed limit has been reduced from 80 to 60 km/h. Studies have shown that the average speed has only been reduced by 4 to 6 km/h. Despite this, the formation of particulate matter has been reduced by 40 pst. In other words, the reduction is due to other factors. However, the state road authority does not wish to make measurements without a reduced speed. Is this a position supported by the Council of State?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e754	Together with the Municipality of Oslo, the State Road Administration has implemented several measures that have given lower concentrations of particulate matter, such as tipping, more reindeer, dust-absorbing salting and environmental speed limits. This has resulted in lower concentrations of particulate matter and better health for the population. High speed results in increased wear and tear and thus more particulate matter. In addition, high speed increases the spread of dust and nuisances for those who live and live around the road network. An experiment on rv. 4 in Oslo from 2004 to 2005 showed that a reduced speed of 10 km/h was around 40 pst. reduced road dust along this route compared to corresponding distances without environmental limit. The other conditions, such as tipping and road maintenance, were the same. The measured reduction along rv. 4 was also consistent with the theoretical calculations. In Manglerud, 38 to 48 exceedances were measured each year between 2003 and 2005. Between 15 and 21 exceedances were measured from 2006 to 2008, i.e. About half of it. Some of this is also due to weather conditions and reduced peak use. Creating understanding and adequate respect for the environmental limit is a challenge. Among Oslo's own population, surveys show that understanding is high, but the reduction in speed as a result of separation has not been as high as expected. Last fall was this reduction of about 8 km/h on Ring 3. On the E18 at Frognerstranda, the decline was much less. A real speed reduction of 4-6 km/h will provide as good a power as 10 km/h. The air quality in Oslo and other major cities is, as I said, better, but not good enough. People with respiratory or cardiac problems are still suffering from health problems. An attempt to remove the environmental speed limit to measure the effect increases the health disadvantages and is therefore not currently relevant.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e767	As stated by the Council of State, the speed has been reduced by 4 to 6 km/h. But there are also other causes that reduce the level of suspended particulate matter. Governments mentioned some, but it is also because of better engine technology, that fewer people use tyres and that a greater proportion of cars have catalysts. There are also smaller emissions due to stationary energy use, i.e. heating of buildings. The council says she won't test out anything that she knows doesn't work. Why not try something out to see if that's the reason, so you don't bother the drivers unnecessarily when they're going from A to B? I encourage the Council of State again to contact the Swedish Road Administration and ask them to do a test to see if the suspended particulate matter actually increases if one goes back to the normal speed limit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e774	In this case, there is a good and clear experience to refer to. Noting that the state road authority does not want to take measurements without slowing down, the state road authority does not know the source. For example, the state road authority measures all year round traffic in Oslo at about 90 points. Air quality is measured in six locations, and six air quality stations in Oslo are defined as main stations and measure all year round. In the previous week, the state road authority established a suspended dust meter along rv. 163, East Aker road, where speed is marked to 80 km/h. This station will form the starting point for a project aimed at looking at the effect of salting and environmental limits in Oslo. Then an attempt to vary salt types and speed limits will be made. It is planned that the station will be outsourced by April this year or more – and there will be a meeting of what the questioner is looking for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e781	I thank the Council of State for the answer. So if that's the effect of going from 80 to 60 km/h, then the question is, why don't you slow down to 50, 40, 30 or 20 km/h, for example, which is likely to give even greater effect? We disagree on the background information provided by the Council of State here in the Chamber. But I would like to know if the Council of State can provide a definition of an environmental limit. You talk about particulate matter. What is e.g. the difference between an environmental limit and a climate limit? This is because when a car takes longer from A to B, it emits more CO2. Is it the case, according to the Council of State, that you might get less particulate matter, but that the price you have to pay is more CO2 emissions? Is this acceptable to the Council of State? Or is it that this is a little bit messy in terms of terms, and that this with the environmental limit might be a sign in the short term that you're going to reap a little populist gain, but that actually doesn't have the effect you think?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e796	In this work, there must be a wide range of considerations. It addresses the global climate challenge, concerns about local environmental challenges and concerns about roadway arrival. Then the answer to the first thing the representative picked up – why not slow down to 50 or 40 km/h – is that we have to take care that in a high-traffic area that Oslo is also going to have on the road, so that we set the speed so far down will have other negative consequences. I have not taken into account the calculations that show how much more or how much less climate we get when we slow down. But slowing down and keeping a steady speed also have a positive climate effect. SINTEF has produced a report that shows that having a road system at even speed where there are no bottlenecks also gives an effect to the climate. So having a good appearance, a steady speed and a speed limit that is optimal in terms of balancing them with each other is the best thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e806	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘A certain proportion of the upcoming toll charge between Hamar and Elverum in Hedmark County is proposed to finance a better train offer on the route. Of course, the progress party is against the whole fee. What is the view of the Council of State that the tolls intended to be used for road purposes are shared and also used to finance train sections instead of the whole charge for road purposes?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e815	I assume that this issue relates to the toll charge linked to a toll scheme for the financing of the development of RV. 3 and Rv. 25 between Løten and Elverum. I am aware that there are local principle decisions on the partial toll financing of the project and that the toll company is established. The project is under planning according to the planning and building laws. I am aware that a local person has discussed the use of toll revenue to improve the rail supply between Hamar and Elverum, without being dealt with in political forums. The county of Hedmark shall decide on the financing and detailed tolling scheme on the basis of the approved regulatory plan and the estimated cost of the project. The size has to do with the treatment of Ot.prp. No 15 for 2007-2008 concluded with the proposal that, in addition to the objectives previously covered by Section 27 of the Road Law, toll revenue should also be used for operational measures for all scheduled public transport services in an urban area, including railway. In other words, the law changes apply to toll packages in an urban area with reference to the Oslo area. The toll project on Rv. 3 and Rv. 25 is initially an ordinary toll project outside the city, and I'm not initially interpreting the law change to apply to this project. I want to come back to this case when there is a request for a toll.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e827	I thank the Council of State for the answer. This is a stretch that absolutely needs maintenance and expansion, but it's said that 90 pst. of the tolls shall cover the extension – 90 pst.Oh, my God! It's clear that if there's a fifty-fifty distribution – 50 pst. on the way and 50 pst. to the railway – this will take quite a long time, and the heavy loads will just be borne by the drivers. There's a lot of heavy traffic going along this road. In Hedmark, both air and maritime transport are poor, so transport is by road and rail. And it is clear that if you are going to divide by this toll charge, that means that the bomb will be there for twice as long, and it will be twice as expensive for the truck industry as it would be if all the money had just gone to fix this distance. The Council of State does not see that this would be unfair for example: the truck industry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e838	As I said in my main answer, I don't interpret the change that Stortinget has made, where one opens to take advantage of the revenue from tolls to railways in urban areas, to be able to apply this distance. Then, in a way, the follow-up question is not so relevant to answer, because as I see it today, there is not an opening in the law to make that disposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e843	I thank you once again for your clarification. It was the one that was important to me. If it is proposed that parts of the tolls on this route go to the railway, then the Council of State will go against it, so that all tolls entering this route will go specifically to this route and not to any other route or to any other, for example: railway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e850	I've never used to say what I'm going to say about future cases, nor about future toll applications. As of today, there is no opening in the law for it. In that case, it would mean that one must have a new set of changes in the law in the Stortinget. I have per cent. today does not plan to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e858	‘In both the road and rail networks, there have been many years of maintenance, i.e. several governments. the maintenance necessary to safeguard road and rail capital has not been carried out as it should. The documentation of the maintenance situation and the scope of maintenance kits is important to ensure against maturity and to provide a basis for the dimensioning and prioritisation of resources. How will the Council of State better ensure good and up-to-date documentation of the maintenance set-aside?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e865	The government is investing heavily in the maintenance of both roads and railways. The area has been neglected for a long time, so the infrastructure has benefited from the reverse operation this government has seen in order to improve both road and track. The reduction in maintenance on the State road network was defined in the 2003 Vegkal Capital project. After that, no detailed calculations have been made using the same methodology as in 2003. However, estimates on behalf have been carried out in order to estimate developments over the last few years. One has then done a calculation of the cost of upgrading a road object, or of performing the necessary work process to stop the expiry, and compare it with the resources used on the same roadside object or work process. Every year the condition is recorded on asphalt tyres – tracks and smoothing. For the bridges, the Road Service also has a state assessment system, and a similar system is being developed for the structural parts of the tunnels. The challenge is to have a system that ensures the highest possible level of state assessment of the various parts of the road network across the country. I have been informed in the letter of assignment to the State Road Administration that the Ministry will come back again with a wide review of the follow-up to the maintenance and the need for further maintenance. A project shall be carried out which, on a sound professional basis, monitors the delays in road capital and establishes a system to determine the need for further maintenance. Such a project is absolutely necessary in order to budget with the appropriate amounts for the maintenance of the coming years. I'm not sure that today's screening is premeditated and therefore wants a basis for decision making that makes it easier to measure the lag and put in action actions that work. When it comes to the size of the road maintenance lag, I refer to my reply in a letter of 15 December 2008 to Question No. 392, by the representative Arne Sortevik, and my reply in a letter dated 13 January 2009 to question 479, by the representative Mr Bård Hoksrud. The maintenance of the railway infrastructure includes corrective and preventive maintenance together with renewal. In 2006, the Railway Agency carried out an analysis of the need for renewal for the period 2007-2040 by means of an external consultant. The analysis was based on age and lifetime norms on important parts of the railway network. In this context, a monitoring of renewal backlogs based on age management of installation components was carried out. The analysis does not cover all parts of the plant, and the railway works have therefore undertaken a survey of the maintenance needs of railway bridges, which are planned to be carried out during this year. Corrective and preventive maintenance is carried out continuously after systematic checks and by component replacement in order to extend the service life. Drag-and-drop controls and suspend corrective maintenance are recorded locally in the individual path regions. Gradually, such information will also be registered centrally at the Railway Station once the station has established a new ICT maintenance management system for the railway network that is currently under development. When it comes to the question of follow-up in the maintenance of the network, I also refer to my answer to written question No. 480, by the representative Arne Sortevik in a letter dated 8 January of this year. As stated in the letter, the priority of maintenance is based on an overall assessment of what we will achieve within priority areas and not just on more technical definition of after-sleep figures. We know that the aftermath is great. The progress made by the Government will result in safer and better infrastructure throughout the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e884	I thank you for a supplementary answer and add that I am of course familiar with the answers we have received before. The point of taking it up here is to focus on the fact that it's actually a defective, maybe a weak and incorrect, basis for determining the actual lag. Let me stick to the road network first. As the Council of State was involved, there was a project in 2003 for the national road network. For the county road network, estimates have been made in 2004. It is good that a new monitoring project is being launched in 2009 – but the government has been in place for a while. We know a lot, but we lack considerable and more thorough knowledge of the maintenance situation. Are we rolling a new national transport plan without having a good basis to assess what resources need to be used to get rid of it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e893	The State Road Service and the Railway Agency are very clear on the increased need for maintenance equipment. It is in the recording given in the National Transport Plan, which was developed in 2004 and 2005 and presented to us in 2006. It is not that long between 2003 and 2004 and 2005. I feel confident that what lies as a basis for decision in relation to the national transport plan is based on a work that was thorough. After that time I think there has been a need to ensure the quality of that system. So I have asked that a work be started to do that, and to make sure that we have the correct numbers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e898	Thank you again for your answer. We give our full support to that work. It's important and right that it's done. But we know a lot. Even with the adopted budget for 2009 in the road sector, we know that there is a deficit of DKK 1 billion in order not to increase the backlog. This means that even with the package of measures on the maintenance side, the reduction in road maintenance will continue to increase in 2009. We know the survey on the railway sector to which the Council of State referred. The situation is exactly the same, for the renewal of installations in the years 2007-2009 is as needed, i.e. the continuing increase in maintenance in both the road and rail sectors, including this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e907	I appreciate the need to minimize what this government is doing, because what we're doing is a quantum leap in relation to what previous governments have done. Taking into account the additional permissions that came a short time ago, the railway budget has for the first time passed 10 billion dollars in one year. It's a milestone. Because way we're approaching $20 billion, and the ordinary budget was over 17 billion kroner. It has our growth both in investment and in maintenance, and both are very necessary. When we present the national transport plan, the representative Sortevik will see that we also take seriously the challenge of maintenance. We're going to continue working with our good people in the different etaties to ensure that people come forward, safe roads and railways in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e917	‘The mass tunnel was adopted more than 15 years ago and has been housed in several NTPs with alternating governments. The tunnel is also a priority in today’s transport plan and should have started in the period 2006-2009. [[2006-2015]] There is broad political agreement in Eastfold on the project. Eastfold county council has adopted the development of the railway through Moss as the first priority in the NTP in Eastfold. There's cross-political consensus in Moss's city government. Nevertheless, it is not a priority in 2009. Where does the Council of State stand in this matter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e924	The Mosse tunnel will be more closely assessed and prioritised against other projects on the Eastfold Railway and along the railway network otherwise in connection with the National Transport Plan 2010–2019. The Mosse tunnel is a large project worth about NOK 3 billion, and the construction of the project therefore needs to be phased into relation to other large projects in order to ensure rational plant implementation. An additional allocation of detailed plans in 2009, as requested by Østfold County Council and the municipality of Moss, will hardly affect the completion of the project in practice. The main plan for the project is now for internal evaluation at the Railway Works. Preparations for detailed work are under way through basic studies, initial assessments and measurement. This shall be used to verify solutions in the master plan and provide the basis for detailed planning. The government intends to provide the National Transport Plan Map Communication 2010–2019 in a short time. Here, Stortinget will be able to assess the phase-in of all important railway projects during the planning period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e935	I thank the Minister for the answer. The railway station has claimed that the Mosse tunnel is an urban development project, which, in isolation, does not have a significant impact on the train running. At the same time, the current development strategy requires the railways in Norway to go through cities and agglomerations where people live. This doesn't seem to be completely connected. What does it take for the Mosse tunnel to be prioritised and built?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e944	The Mosse Tunnel is a project similar to several other railway projects that have been on the agenda for a long time. What is needed for the project to be built is for the Government to continue its good work of increasing the path to the railway and solving important transport projects, such as the Mosse Tunnel. I am aware that Østfold County and Moss Municipality have applied for advance funds of 25 million. kr for planning after it was opened for the advance of railway projects in the budget for 2009. Twenty-five million. kr is less than 1 per million of the estimate of the cost of the Mosse tunnel. I am so uncertain whether it could be isolated and bring this project forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e951	I thank you again for the answer. As the minister was inside, Østfold County and Moss Municipality have decided to apply for a 25-million gunnery before Christmas. kr for detailed planning, which has started and could then continue in 2009. As the Minister had in mind, this is an advance plan for which the 2009 State budget has now opened up, which can be used for projects which have not been allocated to the ordinary budget and which are prioritised in the national transport plan and action programme, as is the case for the Mosse tunnel in the current transport plan. Can the Council of State say when they can expect answers to the application?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e960	That application has been received and should, of course, be dealt with as quickly as possible. I can't say the exact date for answers, but we're going to do what we can – in a busy time completing the National Transport Plan – and get an answer as soon as possible. Let there be no doubt that I view the Mosse Tunnel as an important project. I have a great deal of respect for Irene Johansen, who stands firm for both road and rail and for others who want to get this and other projects ahead. I am absolutely sure that the most important thing to get out of the Mosse tunnel and other projects is about commitment, standing-on-will and not giving up. I'd like to compliment Irene Johansen for being one of these fires.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e970	I have a question for the Minister of Justice, which is not about blasphemy or racism, but on the contrary about recruitment. ‘Since the undersigned has reason to believe, some specialised operational services such as the caller unit and the lifeguard service have difficulties recruiting personnel for these services. In that case, the result can be very dramatic. The Council of State may confirm or disclaim that this is the case and if it is a challenge per year. today, what will the Council of State do to improve the situation?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e979	The police directorate has stated that in 2008, there has been a certain focus on the recovery unit – UEH – including that officials in some police districts have applied for disbursement from this service. The applications are largely justified by the burden of service and remuneration. The police officers have maintained the appeals for service in UEH. The Directorate has further informed that two basic courses for UEH, which the Police College should have organised in January and February of this year, have been cancelled, on the basis of which a large proportion of the original applicants have withdrawn their applications. All the police districts are negotiators for local negotiations. It is therefore necessary to provide remuneration for the provision of services in the UEH within the framework of the legislation applicable to local negotiations under the main tariff agreement in that country. Wages and salaries for service in UEH therefore vary between police districts according to local priorities, etc. The unrest associated with UEH is unfortunate. I assume that the management and trust leaders in the police districts are finding solutions to local challenges related to this service. As far as lifeguard service is concerned, I have been informed that the Police College has had to cancel the basic course that was planned to be completed in the spring semester 2009. Of the 59 who were selected for the basic course, only nine people met for admission in week 3. At the previous basic training course in lifeguards, in 2007, 17 bodyguards were trained. Three of these remain waiting for a vacancy either at the Royal Police Card or at the bodyguard service. Experience has shown that few end up in the bodyguard service. In general, there have been no problems in retaining and recruiting lifeguard staff in recent years. Finally, I would like to say that one thing is what you do out in the police districts to get compensation, which you have the authority to negotiate, while the argument that has been argued, that you don't want to spend more of your spare time, we can only pay with increased crew. That's why we've increased the recording at the Police College. At the same time, in January, we also promoted proposals through the Government's crisis package on a large-scale deployment of police personnel with 462 new posts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e996	Of course, I thank the Council of State for the answer. I record that the eagerness to reach the justice budget was greater in January than it was in December – but that's okay, we can take another time. Nevertheless, the Council of State shall have the approval of what he has contributed, including in the crisis package. Nevertheless, a challenge: the UEH is a tool that is essential in sharp situations. If it's true that we have recruitment problems there, it could weaken the police's ability to solve the problems in critical situations. I think that is worrying, and I expect the Council of State to keep a very high focus on this. In addition, the Council of State says that much of this needs to be resolved locally — because there are local wage negotiations that can solve it. Then my question is, is the Council of State comfortable with the way we do it today? Or does the Council of State see the need to intervene and make procedural changes in order to ensure that UEH and the Lifeguard Service have the necessary new recruitment so that they actually strengthen the police where there is a need for it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1005	I have no basis today to say that the mechanism we have in relation to negotiations on this type of issue is inappropriate. This is, of course, institutionally located in another department. At the same time, I have to say that each district has its own variations, both in terms of crime development, manning and other social conditions. That is why I believe that we have a very good history of having that kind of debate on these issues. I fully agree with the questioner that we need to focus on this, because this is an important service for Norway, and it is an important service for the police. I believe that it is not just a pay question, but a question of willingness to acquire new skills and willingness to enter into new service. There is also a question of capacity. That is why I believe that my commitment lies along those axes, namely to get more staff. I am very pleased with the honor the asker gives me, and the Government, because we have taken the manning promise we have now taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1014	Honor the One Who Should Be Honored! When it's in its place, of course, it has to be like this. In the extension of what we have discussed now, it has been that TV 2 and VG are currently running a case about this type of crisis. It is also claimed that the PF has a role by adding a damper to the zeal of those who could actually imagine taking this type of course. It's worrying if that's the case. In this way, it is interesting to know whether the Council of State has any reason to believe that there is a team in what is claimed, that the PF has a -- let's call it -- conflict of interest with some of its own in relation to the conflict they may have with the Directorate and the Department. It was one of the big things we discussed in the fall. In this case, if it is the case that the police – among the employees – have their own organisation that is not necessarily just positive, but that uses this as an active tool in a possible wage struggle, in what way does the Council of State see that we should be able to solve this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1023	I think I can just say that I agree with the assumptions in the question: if what you read in particular. The time of the world should be the case that this type of activity is going on, and it is very unfortunate. Point 1: It's not up to me to decide. It is in the Ministry of Renewal, and I will leave it to the Minister of Renewal to answer questions about that type of activity — in so far as they take place. Point 2: I believe it is essential that we all seek to contribute to getting calm around the situation in the police. We've got a video from the Police Union, where what went on in my area was getting 200-300 civilian positions to ease the pressure. We have chosen to answer it by proposing 460 jobs. I must respectfully say that now there is a considerable grip. It must be able to help to take the consequences of just these grips and get calm.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1034	Then we go to question 9, from the representative Bent Höie to the Minister of Justice. The President cannot see that the questioner is present in the Chamber, so we move on to question 10.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1042	Yes, President, this questioner is most present. I have allowed myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘In response to the rapporteur in Harstad, State Council Dag Terje Andersen of the AID writes that it is not appropriate for him to set up a departmental office of the Petroleum Control Office in Harstad. Reasons for the refusal include: with a risk of loss of established professional environments and competence in the south. Does the Council of State share this conclusion which states that it is not possible or appropriate to build state supervision tasks in the north in line with petroleum developments, and does the Council of State appear to be in line with the government's expressed wish to invest in the north?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1053	The representative of Kristiansen's question is a little unusual, in effect asking if I have a different view than the State Council, Andersen, of something that is the responsibility of the Minister of Labour and Integration. I don't. Petroleum activities in the north are a very important part of the Northern Region Strategy of Regeringa. The government wants to facilitate both a responsible extraction of the petroleum resource in the north and increased ring-effects of the petroleum activity for the region. The work on this and the proper oversight activities of the petroleum activities in the north is ongoing independently of the location of the supervisory authority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1060	I have to say that was a bit of a depressing answer to a very important question. If this is representative of the Government's position, in the middle of a time when oil is increasingly developing in the Norwegian Sea and in the Barents Sea, while stepping down to the south, they have, of course, those northerners who claim that if the authorities also have such an approach that there is a risk in the north, while jobs, value creation and development take place in the south, they say no. I'm also surprised for the good reason that rhetorical claims today's oil and energy ministers, along with today's government, that you really fight in a North Region context, etc. But when the authorities themselves are not even willing to pull authority tasks further north as progress progresses, precisely in an area that has environmental monitoring and control to do in the most sensitive areas, how in the name of the world one can expect companies to establish themselves. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1067	I almost have to repeat that the questioner addresses a specific question that is under the responsibility of another Council of State. What I have to say about it is that of course we don't celebrate the requirements relating to this area, and that it depends on location. Our ambitions in relation to the North Region bet are well known, and we also see concrete results from it. The question is really an area under the Council of State Dag Terje Andersen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1076	The Council of State's response does not make the matter any better. It's okay to turn away from the responsibility for the non-establishment of Petroleum Control in Harstad. State councils have also agreed that the state's own company, StatoilHydro, will manage its development in the north, in the Barents region, not from North Norway, but from Trøndelag. In the field by area, we see that we do not follow up on what is the need to develop authority tasks as the increased activity on the pedestal in the north. It is very important that the Council of State has an offensive approach to these issues when we see that oil production in Norway is falling dramatically. Over the course of five years, it's half the millennium. Legality and acceptance must be ensured from the areas that are gradually affected. Today’s government must really take over, have an active policy and approach to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1083	Of course, I share these ambitions. We also believe to be operational in relation to the very ambition for presence in the north. We've developed strategies on it. It's going to work on concreteizing it. We now see an activity in the north related to the Snow White expansion, which has been formidable, and which we see gives activity. I think it's very good. It is necessary in relation to activity in the north. Again, what is addressed here is the question of the location of a departmental office of the Petroleum Authority. It's a location that's under State Council Dag Terje Andersen. The questioner is of course in his full right to believe that I should be involved in the responsibility of this Council of State. I'm not going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1093	I have the following questions to ask the Minister of Oil and Energy, a question that falls within his and the Government's remit: ‘Do the Council of State consider that the work environment problems in Enova have now been resolved in line with the Ministry’s assumption and in a way agreed with its employees?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1100	I fully share with the representative Foss’ assessment that this is under the responsibility of this Council of State. It is demanding for employees of any organisation to have long-term work environment conflicts. As the owner of Enova, I have always relied on the board of directors and the board of directors to improve the working environment of the company. On 11 April 2008, the Ministry entrusted the Governing Board with the task of designing a scheme to ensure a stable and good working environment for Enova. The board was given a period of three weeks. The Management Board submitted a plan for this to the Department on 24 April 2008. I am aware that the board of directors, management and employees of the company have worked well with the working environment after that. I received a description of the status of this work on 21 January this year. There the board writes, among other things,\t\t You can change the «The conflict in the company has been resolved with active contributions from both employees, management and the board of directors. We perceive that the conflict has been resolved in a thorough manner and created a common understanding of objectives and measures to ensure a good and stable working environment in the Enova SF.» The important thing now is that Enova has left the conflict behind, cf. the information I have received. I would also like to stress that the organisation, through the period we have behind us, has the ability to focus on its tasks and has delivered good results. Then we also see that in 2009 Enova is assigned to new and larger tasks. Therefore, it is also extremely important that Enova deliver results in 2009.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1118	I thank you for your answer. I fully agree with the Council of State's emphasis on the importance of Enova's business, but I think the Council of State should also take a look at the large drop in the number of employees in the company. My concern is this: I agree that this is the responsibility of the board. However, when a complaint is lodged on the board, and the ministry does not even find reason to confirm that the complaint has been received – the complainant has not yet received any reply from the ministry, nor the recognition of complainant status – does the Ministry consider that there is a proper treatment of alerts, in line with the law and the intention of the law?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1127	Of course, in this process we have been extremely concerned about acting neatly. I believe that we have done so in all respects related to the matter around Enova.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1132	There was no answer to the question. I asked specifically whether the Council of State feels that it is not even responding to a warning that writes to the department, but to mention the alert in a letter to the Stortinget is a proper treatment of a alert. One warning is often an exposed person, especially when complaining about the boss or the board. Then you can feel quite lonely – we have many examples of this from work. I have to say that I do not think the department's treatment is satisfactory, and I would like to know if the council has any thoughts on this later on. He is, after all, the new Council of State in this department and is not entirely responsible for the history of the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1139	As I said, my approach to and thinking about this has been that such a matter, with people involved and with so much sensitivity attached to it, requires vigilance and responsible thinking from all those involved. And I believe that the way we have dealt with this matter – which is also mentioned, as the representative Foss says, to Stortinget – takes care of it. In the case of alerts, which have correctly addressed the department, the department has, I believe, dealt with the matter in accordance with the rules of the game that apply in relation to that kind of question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1146	We go back to question 9.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1152	From the representative Bent Höie to the Minister for Justice: ‘The RITS scheme is proposed to be extended with Stavanger, Trondheim/Ålesund and Hammerfest/Tromsø. [[Marine rescue effort]] The case came to the Ministry of Justice three years ago. On Friday 23 January, this need became clear when a ship came in fire outside Eigersund. What has happened since then, and when will there be a clarification of this need?"
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1160	This question falls away, because the queryer is not present. The next question is to the Minister of Knowledge Board Vegar Solhjell. He is not present. The President will therefore propose that the Stortinge take a special short break, waiting for the Council of State to come to the Stortinge – and see it as agreed. The meeting was cancelled at 9.30 a.m. 12.03. ----- The meeting took place at 9 p.m. 12.04.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1171	We will then proceed to question 12.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1177	«In a school in Kristiansand, a unanimous Parenting Council Labour Committee has asked the school to cut student photography every year, asking for transparency in agreements to determine whether there are commercial ties between the school and the company that take pictures to provide return services to the school and whether the parents are paying for the school to receive free pictures. [[FAU]] The school has refused to respond to FAU’s written requirements. Will the Council of State initiate measures to ensure effective participation of parents in school and to reserve itself against the buying press and agreements made without consent?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1184	Let me first regret that I was late. So to the point, I would like to stress that I cannot go into the specific matter of the school in Kristiansand. However, I would like to say that it is important that parents’ opinions on these kinds of issues be heard. A good cooperation and an open dialogue between school and home are important in many parts of the school’s activities. From the Government's side, this has been expressed at the latest through the new purpose paragraph of the Training Act, where cooperation and understanding between the school and the home are central. At each elementary school, there shall be a parent council, where all parents who have children in school are members. The parental council and the work selection of the parental council shall be represented in a cooperation selection at the base schools. In the Cooperation Committee its representatives of the members of the School and representatives of the Municipality. The Board of Parents and the school co-operation selection are important bodies to contribute to good cooperation and understanding between school and home. The school is required to have such a body, and they must have an advisory role for the school and contribute to good dialogue and understanding of the different roles of school and home in the training of pupils. When it comes to student photography and parental payment for this, I suggest that the school should be free of charge for the elephants and parents. This is clearly based on the principle of free of charge in the training laws § 2–15 and § 3–1. The sphere cannot require parents to pay for class photos. Parents and elephants can of course choose to buy pictures of the school, but it is important that parents should not feel pressured to pay. The scheme must be based on voluntary participation. I would like to add that it is important that we are aware of the commercialisation and the purchasing pressure that many young people, and hence parents, may be exposed to. This includes: the basis for the Government to work actively with the question of the ability to advertise commercial players in the school. In view of this, parents and school guidance through cooperation and open dialogue must find a solution to the organisation of student photography.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1199	I thank you for your answer. What I'm most concerned about is the principle, that is, who has the right to decide with the children. As it looks here, there's been some kind of disapproval of the parents. It's not the school's child, it's not the state's child, but it's the parents' child. In fact, FAU and parental contact should be something more than coffee cooking and waffle roasting. I would like to know: what will the Council of State do not only to strengthen the cooperation he has now pointed out in connection with school-home affairs, but also to give parents the opportunity to participate? I know that there have been different forms of pilot schemes, with extended authority, etc., but what will the Council of State actually do to raise parents, so that they appear much more clearly responsible for their children?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1208	Firstly, I would like to stress that the role of parents in the school today is far more than just coffee cooking and waffle roasting. Although I have no objection to coffee cooking or waffle roasting, the contents of the school day and the frames around are discussed in the bodies where parents are represented. Both at national level and not least in local communities, there is a strong commitment in and around the school across Norway. Then we've taken some grip in the last few years. We've strengthened the budget of the National Parent Selection for the base ball. We have also extended the responsibilities of the parental selection to the first year of further education. We also see that there is a local systematisation of the work in municipal parental selection as well as in parental selection related to the individual school, and there is a strengthening of the tasks. For example, many schools have good contact with parents when it comes to, for example, the provision of homework, and they are actively committed to involving and using parents — and they are encouraged to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1215	I think we have a lot of similar thoughts about wanting to raise parents up, but in the everyday school life you can see that it doesn't always work. I would like to return to the experimental arrangements that have been made, including: in some municipalities in the south, by granting FAU and CONFUG an extended authority to participate in the work of influencing different decisions taken in the school. After all, the Progress Party wants this right of decision for parents, and we also want the Council of State to be able to take part in ensuring that parents have that right of decision in school. Is that what the Council of State wants?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1222	Parents or other leaders are the most important adults in the child’s life. Most parents in Norway go through fire and water and will do anything to help their kids with their schooling. For me, however, it is a very clear and clear distinction, and it is that the schooling in Norway is public – there are some private schools responsible – and it is the public who are responsible for the training given, who have to pay the cost, who are going to take on the creation of curricula, etc., but it is going to be done in close understanding and cooperation with the world. So I don't have any plans to change the framework for that. On the other hand, it is important to involve parents more strongly, which is well done in most of Norway, and to extend the framework of the national parental selection and allow local bodies to work I am very positive to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1232	From the representative Jan Sahl to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast: ‘Lexcus is at risk of becoming an ecological and economic disaster. lice that are resistant can both eradicate wild salmonid strains and cause serious setbacks to the farming industry. On 10 December the Ministry organized a seminar on salmonmus. The experts' advice was clear. Immediate action is needed to reduce the risk of development of resistance and new treatment regimes need to be developed. Have the Council of State plans to follow up its advice, and when can we expect to see the effects of the measures?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-02-04.ana.ud172e1240	This question has been postponed. Thus, today's map has been processed. - The meeting has been cancelled.
