ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e30	Memorial of former Depositary Representative Carl Fredrik Lowzow Honourable co-representatives! He's a former coroner of Right Carl Fredrik Lowzow. He's dead, 82 years old. Carl Fredrik Lowzow was born in Oslo on August 5, 1927. After graduating from Artium and studies at Harriot Watt University in Scotland, he took his engineering degree in 1950. In the following years he was employed as a designer at Aker's mek. Workshop, sales engineer at von der Lippe & Co and eleven years in Dyno Industrier A/S. During this period he conducted studies at the Business Economics Institute. Then Lowzow was chief engineer at A/S Fjeldhammer Use from 1966 until 1985. Carl Fredrik Lowzow became involved in municipal policy in Skedsmo in the early 1960s. He was an active member of various governments and selections, also in Akershus County. Lowzow had a long line of jobs in the Right. At different times he was chairman of Lillestrøm, Skedsmo and Romerike Right and from 1978 to 1984 in Akershu Right. In the same period he was also a member of the Right Central Government. For twelve years he was chairman of the Central Hospital in Akershus. Lowzow was elected to the Stortinget from Akershus in 1977 and sat here for three periods until 1989. In his first growing-up period, he was a member of the Committee on Transport. In the next period he was a member of the Energy and Industry Committee, while in the last period he was again a member of the Transport Committee. Lowzow was a member of the mandate committee and a delegate to the UN General Assembly. In his second growing-up period, he was a board member of the Stortinget Group of the Interparliamentary Union, where he was president in his last period, 1985-1989. Even after he left the Stortinget, Carl Fredrik Lowzow was active both in politics and business. He was CEO of A/L Skedsmo and Sørum Electricity supply and was given a new period in Akershu County. He was a member of the Council for the Disabled and of the Board of Elders. Lowzow was a member of Akershus Højre County Board again in the years 1995-1999 and was also strongly involved in the Højre Senior Organisation. In addition to its public and political tasks, Carl Fredrik Lowzow had a number of responsibilities in other organisations, including: in the Norwegian Civil Engineering Association. He received the honorary sign of the Norwegian Civil Engineering Association in 1985. He was a member of the Norwegian Tourist Association Council for many years. At Stortinget, Carl Fredrik Lowzow was delighted to work in areas close to him. In both business and transport policy, he was given ample opportunity to engage in major and important issues, including: as rapporteur of the Norwegian Road and Road Transport Plan 1990-1993. He also spent a lot of time promoting the interests of the home state and contributed greatly to a good cooperation on the Akershus bench. Carl Fredrik Lowzow was concerned with collaboration and team games and enjoyed great trust in those he came in contact with at Stortinget. We remember Carl Fredrik Lowzow for his work in Stortinget. We bring peace to his memory. The representatives heard the President's commemorative speech.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e79	The Presidency promotes a unanimous position on two changes to the rules on the right of access to the Storting documents. New rules were adopted by the Stortinget on 16 March of this year and entered into force on 1 April. Under these rules, access to documents exchanged between the large-scale representatives, the large-scale groups or the group secretariats on the one hand and, inter alia, on the other are initially permitted. The administration of the Storting on the other hand. Questions about the transparency of the inward and outward documents of the investigation section were not mentioned in the setting of the new rules. Since the establishment of the investigation section in 1999, it has been established that a note from the investigation section is the property of the contracting entity and that the investigation section does not disclose which contracting entities have asked for what. The background to providing the payer with confidential treatment is to allow them to work on policy initiatives without becoming known to everyone. The Presidency considers that there are strong real reasons for maintaining that practice for the investigative section documents, and the Presidency considers that there has been no intention of changing that practice. Therefore, the Presidency proposes an addendum to the rules on the right of access to Stortingen’s documents, stating that the rules do not apply to documents exchanged between the wholesalers, wholesalers or group secretaries on the one hand and the Stortingen’s investigative section on the other. The second amendment concerns the rule on complaints about decisions on transparency. Any person who has received a refusal of access may appeal against the refusal of the Director when the decision has been taken by an official seconded to the Director. Decisions taken by the Director may be appealed to the Presidency. It is now proposed to clarify in order to remove doubts that only decisions have been taken by the Director as the first instance to be subject to appeal to the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e94	When the new rules were adopted, the Left was very pleased with it and supported it. We're actually a little bit surprised at the setting, the argumentation, the velocity and the procedure. The speed of the Presidency has led to this change and tightening in relation to the public without the matter being sent to the hearing. We have been informed that opinions have been received from both Stortingets Presselosje, Norwegian Editors' Association, Norwegian Journalists' Team and Norwegian Press Association, which are at least available to the Left, where all four say that they disagree with this change. We're also a little bit confused about the argument. It is almost as if there has been a mistake, but for us in the Left it has not been a mistake that these investigations should be open. We also perceive that the argument is in many places that it is in other countries, and it is not. I refer you to a letter from the press department and they point out that Bergen's Official Journal, for example. have been given access to five investigations carried out by Parliament on behalf of the Stortinget, while the Stortingen Investigation Section does not provide access to the same investigations. As the section manager of the Riksdag states to the Official Journal of Bergen on Sunday 11 October 2009: «It has always been clear about who asks questions and what theme you want to provide. It follows the public principle.’» In the parliaments that have a similar system to ours, it is not secret who asks questions, what questions and what is the conclusion. This has the strange consequence of obtaining documentation from one investigative department, which is secret to us. I also do not see the consideration behind such secrecy. The idea that a question is the property of the contracting entity is a rather old-fashioned way of thinking in relation to the disclosure law. In this way, everything could be kept secret if there is a principle you follow. I just want to refer to e.g. the budgetary process we are currently in, where a lot of parties ask the Ministry of Finance a lot of questions about a lot of things they're not going to propose. It's full transparency about it. It's even being posted online to the full transparency of everyone you've asked about, and what's the answer. It is not considered to be the property of the contracting entity. It helps us get a better debate. Nor does it help to believe that everything you've asked about as a party is a policy to be implemented, and it also helps to develop policies in a better way, you ask me. The Press Release states in a letter that if the same principle had been applied to the Public Service Act, and subsequently practiced in public administration, the public had been consistently kept unaware of a number of important processes in society. Acting on the fact that the investigation is someone's property is a principle that fundamentally violates the fundamental principle of the Public Health Act itself. I think you'd like to have a code that says you have an advantage ordering, which means that it might be public what you've asked about, and who asked, but it might be like having a one or two month advantage asking you to be able to control it if you view it as part of a political campaign. Such is the rule of law in many other parliaments, that one has a advantage when one is so glup that one can think of a question, but going from that premise to that all investigations should be secret to everyone is an interpretation of the law, an attitude to the public law that we in the Left cannot at least support. So we're going to vote against the intensification proposed by the Presidency.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e114	In the opinion of the Presidency, no intensification is proposed. It is proposed to clarify the legislation that has been a prerequisite for the investigation secretariat since the establishment of the investigation secretariat in 1999 — a clarification in the text adopted in March this year. So to the question of transparency. I can share the presidency's discussion about this with the Storting. What we have been primarily concerned with is the ability of the opposition to investigate, analyse and ask questions about matters which they may consider to propose, or, for that matter, would like to argue against what the government has proposed, without it coming to the public before the representative chooses to publish it. The aim of this is, of course, to strengthen the opposition's ability to work in relation to the position, which has some of the same possibility as a Council of State to ask its office for investigations in the form of unpublished internal notes. In this way, it is possible to analyse matters without necessarily concluding that it will end up in a specific proposal. It is important for democracy that the opposition also has that job opportunity and can strengthen the basis of its proposals by collecting analyses, investigations, from an investigative secretariat. It is not the case, as the representative Skei Grande says by reference to the letter from the press department, that a similar practice of the Public Service Act would lead to that all proceedings in the government agency or in the public sector would not be public. On the contrary, it is actually that in the Public Health Act there is an exemption for internal preparation in a department before a case is brought forward. A State Council has a number of documents that are not public. Similarly, we want the opposition to have the opportunity to investigate matters without being obliged to publish them. For the sake of order only: if the investigation section of the Norwegian Storing asks questions to an investigative department in another country, there will initially be non-public issues, because they do not concern questions from a representative of the investigative secretariat. This concerns questions from the Investigation Secretariat to an outside body. Then they'll be public. Finally, it is, of course, up to the representative to publish both the investigation and, of course, the conclusion he himself draws from the investigation in the form of a proposal. So we want to make sure that the opposition also has work to do so that you can thoroughly meet the position and government in a well-prepared way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e125	I agree with the President-in-Office's remarks that the investigation section belongs mainly to the opposition, but to draw the conclusion that it is then important at any time to keep secret everything that the investigation section has been given in charge, I do not believe that there is any strength for democracy. I don't understand the purpose of having a secret stamp on everything. I just want to point out that the Left has never had the intention that this should be a secret, and we have not supported it in the past. So we don't agree with the President that this is just continuing something that has already been agreed upon, and a correction that was already agreed. When the investigation section was established in 1999, reference was made to the scheme in Sweden. It was then informed in the case that representatives are guaranteed full anonymity, but that the answers are open to everyone after a few weeks. This arrangement has worked in many other parliaments, and I do not understand why we should have more secrecy in the Norwegian Parliament than we have in the other parliaments from which we have got the idea. I think it's a good idea to look at the fact that you can have a quarantine period for information that gives you an advantage, but once you've done an investigation – when our community, which is the investigation section on Stortinget, has conducted an investigation, I don't understand why it should be secret to others what the conclusion to it is. I see no difference between using the investigation section and using the government apparatus in principle in relation to transparency related to different investigations. We often use the government apparatus, especially in relation to the budgetary process. So I'm not convinced of the arguments we've been presented here, and I think it's stupid that it hasn't been put up for a major public debate. There should also have been a hearing related to such a change, because it is clearly a narrowing of what was intended when we last adopted this. It was at least the left's intention when we last adopted this. The fact that others have made a mistake, I believe should not be an argument that the matter should not have been heard, and that we should not have taken better time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e132	I just want to remind you that we are now talking about adjusting a text that was thoroughly discussed and adopted in March, with effect from 1 April. In the discussion that preceded the detailed treatment that was then available, it was at least not mentioned the intention that, if the representative Skei Grande or others asked for an investigation, it should be published by the investigative secretariat. It can, of course, also be published by the recipient. Then I agree with the representative, Skei Grande, that it is of great value that representatives can also ask questions to the government in a department and get the same factual answer and the same serious treatment that the government receives when using the same investigative device. But there's a difference, and that's that the government can also use the investigative capacity to prepare things that may not even be proposed, just because of the preparation. It is, unlike the documents that I agree with Skei Grande, that it is a blessing that we have, not subject to publicity because they are the Council's own documents. So we want to give the opposition the same opportunity to investigate and analyse questions without having to publish them, for example. because the conclusion of such an investigation may be that one finds out that the idea might not be so good, or that one gets good arguments for a good idea. So that's what's been practiced until March this year. There was no argument in March that changes to the legislation were intended to change practices. That is why we are now aligning the text with what was used before March this year – and which was not the main theme of the changes in March.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e141	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see page 250]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e158	At the request of the Committee on Transport and Communications, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 35 minutes and allocated by up to 5 minutes to each party in the Committee and up to 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose the possibility of a replacement of lines of up to five lines following the intervention of the Council of State within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e167	Let me start by reminding you that the Transport Committee is examining a major report on Avinor's activities. So a little later this fall we get a broad discussion here in the Stortinget about both the organisation and financing of Avinor and aviation issues in general. In this proposition, the Government proposes that the Storting give an additional allocation of 150 million. to Avinor on the 2009 budget. This appropriation is intended to contribute to the implementation by Avinor of the necessary security investments that the company has previously announced could be put at risk. Avinor has a high investment need in the next few years, and the company has challenges in financing all the investments. The financial crisis has reinforced these challenges. In the light of traffic declines and revenue failures as a result of the financial crisis, Avinor will invest significantly less than planned in 2009. It is thus previously announced that the company would be able to postpone improvements at five airports – Bergen Flesland, Sandane Anda, Kristiansund Kvernberget, Røst and Tromsø. The consequence of this could be the imposition by the Air Safety Authority of compensatory measures to reduce transport standards for these airports, i.e. rather dramatic consequences. The Committee considers it appropriate and important that an exceptional investment grant be made by the State in 2009 to ensure that Avinor now implements the safety investments previously announced by the company. A unanimous committee agrees with this proposal. The majority of the Committee, the members of the Progress Party, the Right and the Christian People's Party, point out that the cross-financing system can create unforeseeable financing for smaller aerodromes in bad times. The Progress Party, the Right Party and the Christian People's Party point out that the State has a responsibility to counteract this unforeseeableness, so that the activities of District Norway and the security investments do not become harmful. The Progress Party refers to its comments and proposals at the Innst. S No 355 for 2008-2009, which was in connection with the consideration by the Financial Committee in June of a proposal on additional commitments and re-priorities in the State budget for 2009. We had several suggestions attached to this. Among other things, the Progress Party in that case showed the Government’s extensive profits from Avinor, both in 2007 and 2008. We thought it was necessary in June to bring back some of these funds. We therefore proposed to increase the appropriation by 100 million. kr in relation to the Government’s proposal for a revised government budget. That proposal was rejected by all the other parties in June 2009. However, we are pleased that the position on the issue of improving Avinor’s financial basis for implementing regulatory measures in November 2009 has clearly changed, both at the government parties and at the other opposition parties. This is good for the safety of airports, and it is also good for anyone using air transport in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e182	In this proposition, the government proposes that the size should give an additional permission of 150 million. SEK to Avinor for 2009. The authorisation shall contribute to the implementation of Avinor’s necessary collateral investments. The requirements for aerodrome design are strengthened, especially in the case of runway safety areas. In 2007, the Air Safety Authority accepted Avinor’s plan for development, which means that these requirements will be met by 2013. Avinor is in great need of investment over the coming years, and the company has challenges to finance all of these. The financial crisis has exacerbated these challenges, and on 11 March this year, a press release from Avinor said that the company was considering freezing planned investments. There is just this situation The government will remedy this with the promise proposal we are handling today. Many important security projects can be carried out as planned following this promise and as a result of the promises recommended in the 2010 State budget. In the proposition, there is a concrete point of planned projects at the airports of Flesland, Anda, Kvernberget, Røst and Langnes. The main rule is that the operation and development of aerodromes should be managed within the Avinor system. The solidarity arrangements, where the excess from the profitable airports helps to keep up the non-profitable airports, are very important for regional development, and many places in the country are the Airports and the grid for construction and employment. There are only three-four airports that provide surplus, and then there are over 40 airports that depend on this solidarity, or cross-financing if one will. Thus, when we now authorise investment funds to Avinor, making a deviation from the general rule of self-financing, it is the coincidence of income losses and new costly security requirements that are the cause. At the same time as we are currently ensuring investments in aviation security, it is appropriate to recall that Avinor must also set a target by industry, which the company also does by keeping individual investment projects not directly linked to the safety requirements of the Air Safety Authority on hold. Reduced revenue will generally require more efficient operations. In recent years, there has been a strong exchange from Avinor, as part of the single exchange policy. So now Avinor's going to get paid, and the state's going to take zero in exchange. As mentioned earlier, it is also recommended that there should be the same objective in the submission to the government budget for the next year, and that no exchange should be envisaged. Financial crises are not good, including: There is less activity and less interaction between people in the country, nor is it a good sign that traffic with other countries has fallen so much during this period. But it's both good and important, and also right, that we in these for aviation still have some turbulent times that can keep a high level of investment that increases the safety of our aviation. The Government statement states that one shall ‘maintain the regional aerodrome network’. The proposition we're invited to adopt today will help secure our regional airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e199	I take the floor because I am going to go over the wording of the comment by the majority of the committee, which states that the cross-subsidisation system, that is, the solidarity system, can create problems for the operation of the short-distance network. Then I have to say that there is a little bit of history, because the principle of solidarity, that is, cross-subsidisation, is what has helped us to get the regional airport network we have in Norway, and it has helped to ensure the operation of the short-haul network. It has been natural, because the airport network in Norway acts as an oak-nav system, and the fact that we have a short-distance network that feeds passengers into the major airports and contributes to the economy and the profits of the three-four largest airports in Norway, that is precisely the relationship that has established the special financing system we have on the airport network in Norway. It's unique, and there's every reason to keep it. Then it is that at times when traffic goes down and investment needs are high in terms of ensuring safety at airports, it is natural for the state to go in as it is now doing and ensure that the investment programme can be implemented. Of course, we fully support that. But to claim that the principle of solidarity, cross-subsidisation, should be a threat to the short-distance network, is totally wrong, and it's historyless. It is essential to maintain it for the future in order to ensure the operation of the Norwegian Short-Range Network.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e206	Christian People's Party supports additional Avinor's 150 million. kr in order to implement the necessary security measures. The Christian People's Party has noticed that the government party does not support the comment of the majority of the committee, which the representative Geir-Ketil Hansen also commented on in his article. The Christian People's Party is so absolute for a cross-financing system, but we also see that there are some challenges now, and I want to challenge the Council of State, which in some articles is produced as a «good-heart raw skin», on the following: Is it raw skin or is it the good-heart we want to see in relation to our airports ahead? I do not disagree with the representative Hansen, who points out that cross-subsidisation has been important, but I still think it is important that we point out from the committee that we now need diligence for our local regional airports. The Christian People's Party has also noticed that the Department has increased the fees to Avinor more than the Board of Avinor suggested. It's probably because there's a need for financial savings. I therefore want to give the Council another proposal on the road, which can also provide savings. It is easy for the security measures at Norwegian airports to be different from, for example: on Arlanda, the main aerodrome in Sweden. Of course, passengers have to pass a security check before they board the plane, but when passengers come to Arlanda from abroad and continue on a regional flight in Sweden, they don't have to go through the security check. It's not like that on Gardermoen, and to use Bjørn Kjos' own words: The district travelers who come to Gardermoen from abroad must be able to avoid going through an additional security check – they must have two security checks. Here we can see a system in Sweden that works well and is safe and well. I'm not going to ask the state council to answer this today, but I want to right what it wants, and what it has to say in relation to local and regional airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e213	The President is uncertain whether the term 'raw skin' is parliamentary, but let it pass since the raw skin was good-heart!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e216	A fine-tuned network of airports is essential for people to be able to choose where to bow. It is also crucial to ensure a viable business life throughout the country. Due to increased passenger numbers, new security requirements and the general need for maintenance, Avinor is ahead of major investments. If unnecessary means are supplied, the option is to limit air traffic or to shut down aerodromes. The fact that the Government is now embarking on extraordinary efforts both in 2009 and 2010 shows that we are taking this seriously. It's about the freedom of deduction on loans, it's about not taking any exchange, and it's also about bonuses. I am pleased with the broad connection that this policy seems to have in Stortinget. One of the main reasons why we're able to keep up this network of airports, which is so important to so many, is in my view just the model of solidarity, which means that profitable airports are involved in financing unprofitable. I am recording the unrest that the majority of the Committee has expressed in a note in relation to the times we are now in. I can only make sure that the Order follows closely on the situation. That's also what makes us come up with the suggestions that are now being made. I am pleased that the Progress Party is on its own to replace today's model with promises of the state budget. I have no doubt that if one gave the model of solidarity on the boat, keeping up a number of airports will be more in danger, because this is a cut in a budget line. So I've been challenged on some other points. One is the charging policy. There is, therefore, a proposal for harmonisation between the Member States and abroad. Then there's a question about the amount of the fees. There it is to say that the board of Avinor first proposed 4 pst. increase in fees. Then they reunited it, to zero in turn. So the proposal now before us is about 1 pst. That means $8 per cent. Ticket. So here's a reference to a characteristic of this council that I'm challenged to. Then my answer is that I'm going to be cool in terms of demanding both consolidation and efficiency from Avinor himself. I think that's necessary. I'm also going to be tough in relation to the targets that have been set when it comes to keeping up the fine mask airport network that we have today. It's a superior and very important goal. If it can then be seen as a good heart to make proposals as it is today, and what is leading in 2010, I can live with it. I would also like to say that the Stortninget will be invited to several debates in the future as a debt of Avinor, both in connection with the big business message, on which Sortevik was involved, and also the state budget. This is the first exchange of words we have between the new Council of State and the new Committee, and I look forward to constructive cooperation both in terms of Avinor and other matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e235	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e238	Since I have not spoken in the debate, I would like to congratulate the Council of State on the work of this chair. I will follow up a little bit on the question that Hareide had to the Council of State about an easier everyday life for transit passengers at the Gardermoen. It is true that 600000 passengers have lost this in a year. I also know that your predecessor was positive about solving this, but that it has stopped in the Ministry of Finance. Last Wednesday I had a question to the Council of State Johnsen from this pulpit, where he was actually so positive that I perceived it as a yes – that he would solve it. So I would recommend you follow the case further and maybe press a little extra on, so that we can make the trip easier and less difficult for very many airline passengers to destinations other than Gardermoen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e247	The President would point out that all speeches should be addressed to the President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e251	It's probably a special challenge on the one hand to follow the security features that are always in force, and to look at what provides for the goods and to ensure good practical arrangements both at the Gardermoen and at other airports. I'm going to follow up on the tip that came from Hareide, which concerns Arlanda, and I'm going to go into the discussions and questions that have been here in the Stortinge from before, close to this. For I am, like the representative Halleraker, engaged in handling the claims as practically as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e256	Unfortunately, we have seen many examples of Avinor having seen the need to deprioritize measures that are absolutely necessary to ensure good accessibility for people with reduced mobility. It is enough to mention Stavanger airport Sola, where there has been a major conflict with user organisations because Avinor cannot afford to invest in footbridges for the new flight exits. In planning and developing new infrastructure, universal solutions must be ensured. Too many meetings today are obstacles in the form of poor organisation. So my question to the Council of State is, what will the Council of State do to ensure that Avinor follows the laws of discrimination and accessibility in a proper way at all its airports.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e263	It is now a new law of discrimination, or a universal law of design, that is being implemented from 1 January 2010. I would like to agree with Mr Hareide that ensuring better availability is a major challenge. It's not really right how many people with disabilities have been in good shape for 30 years. Now there's a law that applies to new buildings. And then there's a lot left, both on existing buildings and on the transport sector. It is a working group that is now looking concretely at actions that can be taken, including in relation to the plans at Stavanger Airport. So this is going to follow up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e270	I had to speak when the Council of State said that cross-subsidisation is important to maintain local and regional airports, and that the Progress Party's system of state funding would probably mean uncertainty for regional airports. Then I have to ask the question back to the Council of State, if you represent a government that wants to put down most of the air traffic between the four major cities in Norway, which subsidizes the rest through the cross-subsidisation system, i.e. the Oslo–Bergen routes, Oslo–Stavanger, Oslo–Trondheim routes. You want to build a lightning train, or a high-speed train, which will take 95 pst. by air traffic. Then I wonder what the situation will be for regional and local airports and the cross-subsidisation system, when those who are going to finance it are no longer present.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e275	I don't see it as Hoksrud. Nevertheless, air traffic and traffic between the largest cities will continue for a long time. And so it's like here are three-four airports today that go with solid excesses, and as a contribution to a system that I think is more robust than having a budget line alone, which one has to discuss every year. So Hoksrud is right in that it's about here, is the willingness to keep up a fine mask airport network, and it'll be happy for District Norway if the Progress Party has a real commitment in that field.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e282	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e287	Having heard a little here, I again find reason to recall what this matter really concerns: there is therefore an additional allocation that the Committee is unanimous in agreeing, happily enough, a state grant, to cover the costs of the safety measures imposed by the authorities. I think we should conclude with that, and note that we are actually happy to agree on that. And for the Progress Party, it's especially joyous. We have long thought that just such regulatory measures into aviation should pay a larger part of it. And then I remind you again that we have a good opportunity to discuss many aspects of aviation related to the news of Avinor, about which we are actually going to have a hearing in the committee tomorrow, and which is coming to Stortinget a little later. It is gratifying that there is a great deal of interest in aviation, and it is also a little sweet when those who work most hard to limit, reduce, prevent and make more expensive aviation are concerned about the cross-subsidisation system. It is true that if strong measures are taken to reduce not least the activity of the major airports in Norway, which are good sources of income for Avinor, it becomes a lot less money to distribute to all the other airports in Norway, which receive support and contributions through the existing cross-subsidisation system. I repeat that it becomes a little bit especially sweet that lots of people who are concerned with damping and reducing that income as much as possible are concerned with getting the most of the income at the same time. Finally, let me also repeat that the attention and interest in aviation are joyous. It underlines what the Progress Party is also concerned about, namely that we need more than a big message about Avinor to Stortinget. We actually need a new big message about aviation in Norway, as we had over ten years ago. I am well aware that some parties reject it, and believe that it has been ensured through the rolling of the national transport plan. The Progress Party believes that it is not. Road and rail are the main focus of the national transport plan, while both maritime transport and not least air transport are significant in the background. There has been a raging development in aviation in recent years, and there is still a raging development. Therefore, the Progress Party continues to believe that there is a need for the Stortinget to have a broad and good discussion of aviation policy and the state of aviation in Norway. We will come back to that again with proposals for Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e300	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e308	The size shall then be added to the case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e338	The left has announced that they want to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-10.ana.ud1742e501	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
