ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e78	The representative, Jørund Rytman, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e81	On behalf of the big business representatives Ulf Leirstein, Kenneth Svendsen, Gjermund Hagesetter, Kåre Fostervold and myself, I have the pleasure of proposing better rules for entrepreneurs and entrepreneurs operating individual companies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e86	The representative, Anders Anundsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e89	It is a pleasure to be able to make proposals from the biggest representatives of Jon Jäger Gåsvatn, Åse Michaelsen and myself to make the legislation more flexible to ensure that all students are entitled to adapted training.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e94	The representative of Trine Skei Grande will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e97	On behalf of Odd Einar Dørum, Leif Helge Kongshaug and myself, I would like to propose basic principles to ensure an offensive research policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e102	The representative, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e105	On behalf of the representative, Bård Hoksrud and myself, I am delighted to propose exemptions to non-profit organisations from paying a concession fee for the use of communication equipment that is necessary to perform actions designed to save life and health.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e111	The representative, Bjørg Tørresdal, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e114	On behalf of the representatives of Dagrun Eriksen, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad, Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn and myself, it is important for me to promote a proposal to include children who have experienced abuse in Norwegian schools abroad, in the enlarged and adapted justice system for former children's homes and special school students.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e119	The representative, Hans Olav Syversen, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e122	On behalf of the representatives of Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Laila Davøy, Dagfinn Høybräten and myself, I will present a proposal for a representative to step up efforts to prevent drug abuse through zero tolerance for drug trafficking, the cessation of drug injection rooms and a stronger commitment to overall prevention work. And the next – it is soon Easter break – is a proposal from the representatives of the Storing Association Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Laila Davøy, May-Helen Molvær Grimstad and myself for the amendment of the alcohol law so that the serving of alcohol cannot take place after 1 p.m. 02:00, more stringent penalties for infringements of the alcohol law and greater emphasis on police advice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e129	The representative of Inge Wohnning will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e132	On behalf of the representatives of Sonja Irene Sjøli, Erna Solberg and myself, I am delighted to make a proposal for a contingency plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e137	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e151	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that the debate be limited to 1 hour and 25 minutes, and that speaking time be allocated to the groups as follows: the Labour Party 20 minutes, the Advance Party 15 minutes, the Right 10 minutes, the Socialist Left Party 10 minutes, the Christian People's Party 10 minutes, the Central Party 10 minutes, the Left 10 minutes. In addition, it is proposed that the Council of State should have a speaking time of up to 5 minutes. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be a replication of up to three lines with replies after the speeches of the main speakers of each party group and five lines with replies after the contributions of members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e162	It is an important matter for the education of teachers The Stortinget to deal with today. This happens approximately. two years after we received a comprehensive NOCUT evaluation on the state of general teacher education in Norway. As far as work on the matter is concerned, it is important for me, as the rapporteur-in-Office, to point out first in the areas of broad consensus within the Committee. Then I'm going to go into the areas where there's disagreement. I think it's important to show where there's broad consensus. I want to draw six points here. First, there is a broad consensus that general teacher training should be given a two-part course: a 1-7 race, with a reformed classroom teacher – to use that term – and a professional in a 5- to 10-year course. I think it's positive that this differentiation is being carried out, and that there's excitement about it. Secondly, there is a broad consensus in the Committee on the extension of the field of pedagogics, so that it becomes a thorough subject, a subject of pedagogics and student knowledge. It deals with both principles and practicalities by having a job as a teacher. There are differing views in the Committee on this subject, but in this context I would like to say that it is important to strengthen the field of education in this way. There is also broad consensus in the Committee on the introduction of guidance for teachers after they have been trained. There are different models of how to do it, but there is consensus that this is important and crucial. I think it is necessary to stress that an overall committee stands for it. An overall committee wants to recruit more teachers, but here it is well known that there is a discussion about how strongly it should be done and how much it should be done. But it has to be recruited, it is important, and the committee decides it. Secondly, there is also a broad consensus within the Committee to strengthen skills requirements for teaching, i.e. skills requirements regardless of the subject. It has been presented in the message, but then there are different views on how to proceed with this in the present situation. I also want to say that the Committee as a whole is in favour of a certification system for teachers, but there is a different view on how to deal with the issue further. I'll get back to it when it comes to the left. When I start with these points, it's because it's very important when the Storting does something as crucial as discussing a reform of a new general teacher education seven years after they did it last, to establish these common points, the heavy lines of education, which are agreed upon. It belongs to normal formation and politeness to say what I am now saying, but it is also true: I want to thank everyone in the Committee for excellent efforts and contributions. There has been a good working tone during the work on the matter. We've gradually learned how to handle things peacefully, even though there are clear differences of opinion. The different parties will of course explain their vision, and I will also come back to it. I would then like to explain the view of the Left, and which the Left has on many points in common with other parties, but also partly alone – and I will do so now. Firstly, it is the left's opinion that we should have had ambitions that had brought us there that we would have wanted to introduce a five-year general education course with a two-part course after a practical transition period. The transition period on the left, which we also have in common with other parties, is a period of five years from now. It is a period when the University and Higher Education Council say clearly is a realistic period, if the state or authorities have the will and practical political strength to implement it. In this five-year cycle, the Left wants to build on the four years on which the present big message is based, but in the fifth year, we will put more practice in line with the thinking contained in the communication. We want to introduce a master's degree task with the requirements that it has to meet according to the master's degree regulations. And we want to introduce our own subject that strengthens the educational element, so that we will strengthen the pedagogical subject with 20 points of study, and these 20 points of study we will relate to a combination of historical and religious knowledge. We believe that such an element of formation is very important. Here we are in the situation that the Government has said that a group should be set up to decide if and when it is appropriate to do something about a five-year education. So the big message and the committee work give no more clarity as to whether it is actually the Government's intention and will to do this, and I think that, on behalf of the Left, is regrettable. I think you could set a goal and then work towards the goal. But here, there is a clear political disagreement. Throughout this ageing period, the Left has had three basic themes in terms of school and teachers. It's a good basic education, and we're dealing with it here today in connection with this message about primary school teachers. We have been involved in systematic further training for all teachers in all disciplines. And we've been concerned with the broad recruitment of teachers, because we need it. Then, as a party, we have also been concerned that there should be a professional requirement to teach in all subjects. Here it is positive to note that there is consensus in relation to the Government, when the Government wants such a line. The disagreement is whether this applies to the teachers who are in school today. At this point, the Left believes that it is absolutely necessary that these professional requirements also be linked to teachers who are in school today, but then one must also do what we, together with other parties, stand for: link this with systematic further training. This allows you to build up the skills of the teachers who are there over time. There is a political disagreement between the Left and the Government parties. We want the professional requirements to apply also to the teachers who are in school today, and to give them a chance to become good where they are, by relying on their real competence and receiving further training that gives them formal competence. Now it's like the Left represents a line we're with other parties about, to reinforce the recording requirements in Norwegian and mathematics. I would also like to point out that I think there are two shortcomings in the message. One deficiency is to see this teacher training — that is, primary school teacher training, which we are now talking about — in relation to other teacher training courses. When you do the reforms of education, whether it's by the majority line, that's the line of government parties, that Christian People's Party, because of the number of years it's together with the Government about, or the minority, it would be important to see this in relation to other teacher's education as well. That's why it's an overall proposal from all the parties in the opposition to get an overview of the different teaching pathways as soon as possible, and I'm not going to get any closer to it right now. It's also that wise senior policy is wise policy, and it should have been more of it, but I'm not going to mark it further. In connection with the message, the Left has been committed to looking at a subject of education related to historical and religious knowledge. When a compromise was reached on teacher training – that was in 2002 – it was a compromise between the Bondevik II parties, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, and the Workers' Party and the Centre Party. In that compromise, 20 study credits were built into religious knowledge. When we are going to create a teacher training for the future, it is the Left’s view – and here we have a common view with the Right and the Advance Party – that it is necessary to see religious knowledge broadened. We need to see it in the educational perspective where history and religious knowledge are seen in a context. There's two reasons why that's important. One reason is the multicultural society in which we live. We have to learn the concept so that we can conduct an honest and sincere dialogue from where we stand. It's also so that in a world with a global economy and where we're going across, it's absolutely necessary that we have a ballast that allows us to stand up to other people who come from other cultures, so that we have the concept. It has therefore been an important point for us to take this with us. I'm not going to go into it any further, because I think this marking of the formation is to reinforce the pedagogical subject, but also to substantiate something that needs to be a big and important project. Let me say that now, because teacher training is to support and strengthen the Norwegian public common school, and the Norwegian public common school is a large and important project because it is a meeting place for everyone. It is still the case in Norway that people with very different social backgrounds, very different economic backgrounds, choose to send their children to public schools. And it's my and Left's sincere belief that as long as we do this school well, it will continue to be like this. The only way we can do it is, of course, to strengthen everything that's related to school management, but it's also, and above all, to strengthen the teachers. That is why I initially referred to the importance of this Communication on the reform of general teacher training and how important they are, the points of view that are now emerging from different parties. That's where the key is to have a school that includes. We also know through research that there is the level of competence of the teachers, together with the good management of the individual school, the good management of the school in the municipalities and a will nationally that allows you to have this good common school. In this good common school, it is very important that we can also look at this relationship that must be a Norwegian project: how do we manage to deal with each other in a proper, proper and civilised way when we have different life views? We all have the great world religions in our country. How do we give the ballast so that we can cope with this in a way that allows us to acknowledge our roots and our history, but at the same time open visors can meet in the great Norwegian 'we', which are Norwegian citizens, but with different backgrounds and with different identity and history? Strengthening this element in a teacher training course has a left-wing view as necessary. We have that vision in common with the Right Party and the Advance Party, with which we have proposals, but it is also a vision strongly promoted by the Christian People's Party in this position. Then I will end by pointing out that we support the Government by wanting a framework plan for teacher training. This is where we break as the aggregate of the Stjernø committee's snuggles. Having a comprehensive curriculum for teacher training is very important, and it is also very important, as we as the committee have learned, that we were told by the country's largest school owner, Astrid Sögnen, on behalf of the Municipality of Oslo, that it is not even certain that the educational institutions today are following up the promise of knowledge in the jobs they are going to do. And then finally, I want to make a series of suggestions, where the Left is either alone or with other parties. I then take up proposal No. 1, on behalf of the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, the proposals No. 2-7, on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left, proposals Nos. 12 and 13, on behalf of the Right and the Left, and proposal No. 18, on behalf of the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e213	The representative Odd Einar Dørum has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e218	There's two or three things that can be said about the main lines here. One is that the position stands together and the opposition has different models. But I can't wait to ask the representative again, because one also sees in this case a tendency for the Left to sign with the Progress Party. That trend is seen by many of us in the current ageing period, and my question to the representative Dørum is simply: is there really such a difference between the Left and the Advance Party in school policy when it comes to it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e223	It's a general pleasure for me when the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the Advance Party can stand together to strengthen generalisation, can stand together to strengthen research, and the Right Advance Party and the Left can stand together to have an ambition on behalf of a Master's degree. It's just very good. Everyone who knows the history of the Left knows that these are long lines in the history of the Left. When it comes to the representative de Ruiter, he knows the answer to the rest of the question. He knows that the Progress Party will have a state-owned price scheme for the school, which is deeply disagreeable with the Left. He knows that the Progress Party will grant the right to earn money from running private schools, something that the Left deeply disagrees with. But this little ritual has also been carried out earlier in the landfill period. It's a great pleasure to repeat the answer. Of course, the left is not ashamed to be with other parties in matters where we actually have a common view. I think it should be a greater cross of thought for the representative de Ruiter and the Workers' Party, a party that historically believed that knowledge gave power, that one has such weak ambitions on behalf of the general teacher education that one dares not run and believe in a five-year master's degree, so that our teachers have the best background in a society where many have high education, which the representative de Ruiters and my party can share the joy of having participated in creating. It's a bigger cross of thought.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e232	The left proposes to move on to a five-year master in 2014. So this is five years after we make this decision and four years after the start of the new teacher training. We know that we need to increase the competence of our educational institutions. We need a lot more added. We need to strengthen our skills, we need to strengthen our professional skills, and we need to strengthen our research skills. It is also the case that in terms of the content of five-year teacher training, if you want it, the opposition is very fragile. Is it proper to make such a proposal? Is it not more appropriate to do what the Government does, precisely to set up a sample to review how and, where appropriate, when a five-year teacher training course is to be conducted?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e237	I'm deeply wondering about the Government's approach, not about strengthening the four-year course, which I've realized we agree on, but I'm deeply surprised that you have to express yourself about a five-year education in the following way: setting up a group to decide if and where appropriate. It is not possible to express itself more clearly in parliamentary Norwegian. The left has chosen the view that other parties also have, that we think it is necessary in a society where over half of the youth schools now have higher education as basic education, to give teachers a five-year master's degree, as outlined and presented in my post. We know that the educational organizations, the student organisations and the trade unions stand for it, and we know from committee consultation that the University and Higher Education Council says that it will do it over a five-year period, given that it is will and strength for it by those who rule. That means that if those who are now sitting had the will, they could have done it. I know, with my knowledge of government and state apparatus, that it is possible to carry out such a will and strengthen the teachers so that we can do it. There is the difference between SV and Left in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e244	According to the current master's regulation, it may appear that the Left's master degree model will not meet the requirements for professional immersion and thus will not be approved by NOCUT. What kind of plan does the Left have to implement its master's degree model by 2014?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e249	We have based on the model we have outlined, but we have also said that it is necessary within a five-year period to take a closer look at it and have a wide consultation on it, so we have actually described it three-thirds in the committee position from our side. We have said that it is necessary to have a hearing on how the master degree is going to be the way it should be, and we have said that it is wise to take advantage of good elements in the four years put there. The master's degree task of 30 credits is in accordance with the master's degree task requirement, according to the rules we have on master's degrees. And then we've said that we want a series of systematic trials in the period – all the trials that we now know from the University of Bergen, the University/High School in Tromsø, etc. Through such a race and in close cooperation with the teachers, we would be able to complete it over a period of five years. That's how I described it, and we've been quite specific in the description. We're different from the government parties, which have no other concrete thoughts than saying that a group should be set up to decide if and when to do something. So there's once again a difference between the red and the left. The reds have too weak ambitions on behalf of the teachers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e255	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e258	First, I would like to thank the case rapporteur for a well-worked job. Today, we are dealing with the education of one of the country's most important professions. Teacher training is in a special position because it has always been dealt with in depth and detail in this room. Also during my nearly four years in this house, the teacher and the teachers' education and position in society have been the subject of debate and representative proposals. And that is with great joy we are today dealing with St.meld. No 11, The teacher – the role and education, which adds to a new and more specialised teacher education for primary school, where professionalism is strengthened by the establishment of two different courses of study, a new and expanded pedagogical course of a year and clearer quality requirements both during the course and especially in practical training. In a child's life, the teacher is one of those children who spend most of their time with. We need professionally skilled educators, but also teachers who are able to provide care. What kind of learner you get, mold yourself as a human being, both professionally and personally. The school shall provide students with good opportunities to develop on their own assumptions and interests. When you think back on school, there's always one teacher pointing out, either because she was professionally qualified in a field, using untraditional learning methods, or because she was a good caregiver, or just because he was cool. So is I. I was so lucky to have the same «female» from 1st to 6th grade – it was actually called «female» when I went to school, as late as the 1990s. She was a little strict, and she set clear boundaries for what kind of behavior she accepted in her classroom. But at the same time she managed to follow us up professionally in almost all the subjects throughout the course. A mantra that has remained in the last few years is that ‘the time of the general teacher has passed’. With the message we are dealing with today, we can clearly see that both by adding up to more professional specialisation, especially at steps 5-10, and also because we impose competence requirements for teaching in Norwegian, math, English and Sami, go into a time when the general teacher is threatened with extinction. But we should not forget all those who are in school today, who have gone the different old races, and who are going to continue in school for many years. These must be offered further training. That is why the «Quality Competence» strategy is established, in cooperation with the teacher organisations, the KS and the National Council for Teacher Training. In 2009, we're going to spend 117 million. kr for this purpose. In addition, the local government sector is also expected to contribute. The right-hand side often paints the school. The country's main profession is often affected by the right-hand side. How are we going to get teachers working at school today to continue in school, and how are we going to get young people to want to be teachers, when there's often a look at how ineffective teachers are? The permanent attack by the right-hand side on the profession is a distrust of the teachers. Earlier this year, the large teaching campaign GNIST was launched, precisely because the recruitment of teachers is far too poor. 35,000 have been on the website since 18 March, and 31,000 have taken the test. The fact that this untimely test has been taken by so many shows that it engages, and that's exactly what we need – engaged teachers. The teacher's task is great and extensive, and that's what makes the profession so exciting. But anyway, the teacher's most important task is to ensure professional quality in teaching, and that the students have the ballast they need to cope with in society. The evaluation of teacher training shows that the requirements and expectations of the student need to be clarified. Management must work continuously to increase student learning outcomes and the relevance of the study. This is one of the reasons why the Workers’ Party does not support parts of the opposition’s proposal to introduce a five-year teacher training from 2014. There are improvements in the four-year training we have today, and we expect the management of the institutions to follow up the measures of the communication we are dealing with today. The Ministry announces in the Communication that a National Accompanying Group will be set up to assess developments both nationally and locally in the process, quality and performance of institutions offering primary school teachers training. The working party supports the processes in progress in a number of institutions. I myself have visited the teaching training at NTNU, which has highly qualified applicants for their five-year master's education, and they experience an explosion in the search for this subject. We need more of this kind of education. Teacher training institutions must attract the best and most motivated students. Ensuring good professionalism has been central to the discussion about the teacher’s message. That is why we are taking important steps to ensure the quality of four-year primary school teacher education. We need to ensure the competence of professionals and gradually build up master's offers within the needs of primary school. This new training course shall be of high quality and difficult to complete. The clear feedback and advice from professionals has been to differentiate teacher training, and therefore we have done a clear grip on this. The training is divided into a course for the steps 1 to 7, which specifically takes into account initial training and early deployment, and a course for the steps 5 to 10, without any mandatory subject, where the idea is more specialised professionals. The Communication proposes a new pedagogical subject. This subject will also enable teachers of the future to meet students in everyday school life, and they will be given insights into how they will be able to solve such problems jointly with non-school bodies. The pedagogical profession has been criticized by many teams for being academic and school-removal. The new subject of pedagogy and learning captures an important part, namely the teacher's meeting with the students. The Communication also discusses the Article II scheme. The aim of this project is to bring new occupational groups into school. The purpose of bringing another type of competence into the classroom is essentially to strengthen recruitment and increase students' motivation in the real world. Business employees will have the opportunity to disseminate their competences in the field of natural sciences, technology and mathematics at school. They are given the opportunity to teach part-time at school in areas for which the school specifically needs. In this way, rivers will see in practice what these disciplines can do in the workplace. Many trained teachers today are not equipped to meet everyday at school. For this reason, a number of guidance projects have been launched and expanded for newly educated teachers, including: The PIL project, Practice as an integral part of teacher training. The main objective here is to develop good practice training models in different types of teacher training. It shall contribute to the dissemination of experience between the various teacher training institutions and networking across institutions. Furthermore, quality assurance systems must be established for practical schools, practical teachers and the practical training itself. In this way, we will prevent the great practice of many newly educated teachers. In general, there is agreement on the main lines of the Storing Communication. And I'm very happy that there's a total accumulation that goes into dividing primary school teacher education into specialization by step. In this way, we will increase the status of the profession and improve recruitment. Teacher training is not served by political games in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e290	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e293	The immigration policy and the lack of integration policies that the Workers' Party has faced have led us to see increasing trends in ethnic and religious conflicts and religious radicalisation. Boys with a minority background have a large drop-out from the education system, and only one in three complete high school in a normal time. Almost 25 pst. of the students are functional illiterates at the age of 16, and we are about to have a new subclass of immigrant boys lacking the skills needed to climb the social ladder. Adapted teaching is about the teacher seeing and understanding the individual student. How does the Workers' Party feel that teachers should be able to provide students with different religious, living and cultural backgrounds with adapted education, and to deal with the situation in school, not least in the relationship with home school, when they oppose making the RLE subject a compulsory subject, and thus refuse to give teachers the necessary knowledge and insight to address this challenge?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e300	We don't say no to teachers being prepared to accept students with different religions and backgrounds in classrooms. The RLE subject, or the dissemination of value in the RLE subject today, shall be a part of the pedagogical education and learning profession, and be an important part of it. It will be the case that the teaching candidates who want to deepen in RLE have the opportunity to do so today by taking a one-year study in this area. Then you'll get better teachers who teach in RLE.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e307	I think all the parties in the hall agree that the teacher is the most important input factor in the school, but it's also important to have good principals. Thus, by means of representative proposals promoted by the Right, together with other opposition parties, we have wanted to introduce compulsory schoolleader education in order to be able to work as principal and national coordination of principal education in Norway. This is simply because you see the need for good principals and the need for formal leadership training and leadership skills. This has been agreed by the Government in several instances, but nothing is happening. Our proposals on compulsory schoolleader education in order to be able to work as a principal and on national coordination of teacher education in Norway have been voted off over and over again, and they are also voted down in the Chamber here today. What's the reason for that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e312	The management at school is very important – it's clear. But if compulsory schoolleader courses for all the principals are the right way to go, I'm a little bit more sceptical. It should clearly be called upon to have the new Vice-Chancellors in charge, and we should continue to do so. It is also important that the principals, when we now introduce skills requirements within a number of disciplines, set up a teacher's corps consisting of teachers within the different disciplines. They must be aware of this and also use it actively.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e319	I also had the lady, even though I went to school a decade before the representative Ljunggren. One of the things that's bothered me a little bit about the strong two-part division we're now doing in the teacher's education process is that you can still risk getting a very wrong gender balance, that there are a lot of women working at the early stages, and that men are going to focus more on the early stages. The Christian People's Party wants the first year to be more common, so you don't have to choose in advance, because then you might choose on the basis of myths and the illusion that it's the women who work for children and the men of youth. Will the representative Ljunggren and the Labour Party take the initiative to make the first year much more common, so that you do not get elections because of myths? Maybe we'll also get a greater gender balance in the teacher's staff.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e326	We believe that the division we're now doing is the right one. Before starting to learn, you have to choose the stage at which you want to teach. I clearly see the concern of the representative, Dagrun Eriksen, that this will be a different gender balance. But then it's important that we continue the recruitment campaign we have to get men to work at the kindergarten, and of course also as preschool teachers. I think that more specialization, especially in the youth, makes men see that here too they can use the technology interest they have in deepening it, and become a specialized math teacher at these stages.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e333	So the chord change is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e336	I will first of all be allowed to thank the President-in-Office, Odd Einar Dørum, for having done an excellent piece of work on this matter, both substantively and in a procedural way. There have been some demanding processes along the way, but the rapporteur has made constructive proposals for solutions. It's been good. And like the rapporteur, I would like to commend the committee for having had a very good cooperation tone throughout the proceedings. I also allow myself to point out – and I do so in the same way as the representative de Ruiter in a previous reply here – that all opposition parties agree with very comprehensive comments on this matter, and that it makes it clear that there would be a completely different and more ambitious policy in this area if one had had a government with a non-socialist foundation – which is hope for the harvest. So to the matter. The message we are now handling is too late. The party expected the government to take the teacher training seriously already when NOKUT more or less slaughtered the teacher training as it is today. Today's teacher training is out of date, lacking professional depression and not related to the expectations of students and students. The so-called practical gap is enormous! Several student coals have begun an education they knew was under pressure and change. Some uncertainty has been created in student populations about how this will turn out for them, even though some of the colleges, after the NOCUT evaluation, implemented a number of measures to improve teacher training. This is the reason why Stortinget is handling this message today. I would like to commend the Government for looking more at specialisation through professional immersion – even if it took time – and sharing the course of education in two different directions, while calling it the professional subject, referred to in the Communication as pedagogics and pupil knowledge, is strengthened. As far as the latter is concerned, the most important approach is to fundamentally change the subject and not to have so many features in common with today's pedagogy. That's good. The party promoting progress in the previous ageing period proposed to double the training and introduce it into the same structure as other bachelor and master degree courses. We hoped that one could start with such a scheme, and then – in the short term – ensure the master's degree for all those who are going to teach at school. That proposal did not receive a majority at the time, but there is a variant of this idea presented by the Government with the proposal for a two-way training. I especially want to mention the University of Westfold. It has been one of the drivers for introducing differentiated teacher training by stage and has helped to provide valuable insights into how this can be resolved. It is good that the University of Westfold has been innovative in this way and helped to provide the foundation for improved teacher education. But then the enthusiasm for the Government's message strongly slows down. In fact, there is a broad political consensus about some of the obvious features of the communication, but on several essential issues it is still a long way away. The party considers that there is a significant deficiency in the teacher’s notification that one does not see all types of teacher training as a whole – to show the context and opportunities in an overall assessment and treatment. It makes it necessary for an overall opposition to submit a proposal to do so. Furthermore, the use of parents or other guardians as a school resource is too small. We know that there are often challenges to contact between school and home, and that in some cases it is often due to insufficient competence to handle such conversations. For this reason, the Progress Party proposes that school-home cooperation be part of the new teacher training, so that all teachers can gain insight into how to better deal with parents or other people as a resource both for the student and for the school — and thereby also for the teacher. Furthermore, it is disappointing that the Government does not take seriously the knowledge challenge in Norwegian school. It is similarly disappointing that the Government does not take seriously the school recruitment challenge. The party of progress is so crunched in the criticism because an overall corps of those who were in open consultation in the UK on this matter was clear that teacher training had to become a five-year master's degree course, it was crucial for both quality and for attractiveness. I believe I have noticed that even the government suggests that a five-year-old master's education would be preferable, but they do not suggest it. Even during the committee’s proceedings, government parties have come to the conclusion that it is very difficult to suggest to future students that their education will eventually become a five - year master’s degree, but that in the meantime they will have to deal with what they have — a separate four - year study that falls between two chairs. Unfortunately, such a situation does not stimulate increased search, nor does it stimulate increased status of teacher training. These challenges appear to be faced by the Progress Party of Government Parties, and this is a challenge for future teacher training. There are actually only two parties in this room who take this challenge seriously. The Progress Party and the Left, together with the Right, promote proposals for teacher training to be ‘a five-year master-grading teacher’ by 2014. The right has tried to get along by creating a model for a five-year teacher education, but it does not meet the expectations of a master's degree. They are involved in the proposal to introduce master’s education by 2014, but at the same time have a proposal that kills the same master’s degree. If the Stortinge were to adopt such a proposal today, it is at the same time redefined what a master's degree is, and it will warn the Advance Party against. It costs to have ambitions about quality in education. One should be careful to accuse others of cheating. The right is otherwise so concerned that students and students should not cheat on exams and exams – here they do a little experiment on it themselves. But I'm interpreting it positively. I feel the hope that the Right will eventually come, with a proper master's degree also for teachers. They probably take one step at a time, and it often turns out to be a wise strategy. The layout and construction of the fifth year of the master degree is somewhat different. The progress team adds up to a master's degree task of 30 credits. Of course, this part is a condition that it should be a master degree problem at all. The Progress Party will then extend the subject of education and learning with a further 20 credits. In that part of the subject, particular attention shall be paid to cooperation between school and home, class management, student management, cooperation with other school professionals, practical pedagogy and extended practice. In particular, the Progress Party believes it is to focus more on class management. Norwegian schools are among those in the OECD area where there is the most noise, anxiety and trouble, and it is crucial that through teacher training we ensure that teachers are able to meet the new leadership challenges for teachers properly. The party also wants the subject to be modular, so that one is clear as to how much of the subject each part demands. The anti-module approach to the subject was partly reflected in the consultation and was based on an assumption that one could then lose the comprehensive perspective that should be the bearer of the entire subject. The Progress Party believes that it is well possible to maintain the type of overall perspectives in a subject that is so extensive, completely independent of whether it is modular or not. In addition, the Progress Party will have a new subject of ten study credits on the practical correction of the subject. It involves learning how to better teach theoretical subjects in a more practical way, so that they are better able to handle and motivate theories or theories-ridden students. This will be an important prevention measure against non-compliance with secondary education and may be an action that will also provide better room for adapted training. The Progress Party mainly supports the Government's proposal to have compulsory courses in teacher training. However, Norwegian and math have such a central place and such a central dimension in 1–7. class that it makes sense to have these subjects as compulsory. At this level, it is also important early to provide a basis for students to address ethical and religious questions. For this reason, the Progress Party supports the proposal to introduce a mandatory 20-point history and RLE course of study in this training course. It may be objected to such a mandatory arrangement that the professional freedom of immersion is reduced. That's right, of course, but on the other hand, this discipline is the one that would be the most central to the students who choose to take teacher training at the early stages, so the real restriction is not going to be so much. At the same time, the Progress Party is committed to minimum compulsory subjects for those who are trained to teach in the 5th to 10th class. This will also improve the freedom of choice of students. The teacher’s message is an important signal to those who are considering what to do in the future. Therefore, the recruitment perspective is also important. As it looks today, there will be a sub-coverage of teachers of approx. 13 600 annual works in 2020. There are several ways to solve this, both by increasing the status of teacher training, the possibilities of continuing training and, as the party believes, by revising the working time contract. Without opening up the whole debate today, I would like to point out that changes in the working time agreement, combined with individual wage fixing for teachers, will improve recruitment and the possibility of getting more educated teachers back to school. I would also like to point out another weakness in the message. It does not discuss the terms of the teachers, that is, the teachers who are to train our future teachers. If this training is to be optimal, the teachers of the future must be the most qualified and inspiring. Of course, as I pointed out earlier, pay is one of several factors that do something about people's choices about what they're going to do. A lecturer in primary or secondary school with 16 years of teaching experience earned last year – if my figures are correct – NOK 451,000. High school offers the same teacher 409,000 kroner in salary. I would like to challenge the Council of State on whom the Council of State thinks it's going to go down in pay to become a teacher's trainer, and how the Council of State will work to correct this strange construction that helps to make it difficult to recruit the best teachers to college. Finally, I will also mention just briefly Sámi College of Teachers. Today, it is obvious that recruitment is so weak and the level of implementation is so low that there is no basis for maintaining the offer the way it is today. The other parties close their eyes to this and propose several recruitment measures, but I am afraid that the train has gone quite a long time ago. In 2008, there were three out of 107 students who followed the general education programme at the Sámi School of Teachers. Then I will deal with the proposals of the Progress Party that are on their own or with others and that have not already been taken up. At the same time, I would also like to give room for an explanation of vote: the Progress Party and the Right will subsidly support the Left's proposal No. 18, on certification scheme for teachers, if proposal No 8, which the Right Party and the Advance Party have together, fall. We hope, of course, that gets a majority, but if it doesn't, then we support the Left's proposals subsidiaryly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e395	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the suggestions he referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e400	The Progress Party here confirms that there is a civil disagreement. At the same time, however, the Progress Party confirms that the Progress Party and the Left are in agreement with school policy, and that is to the extent a confirmation of what I asked for instead. On the other hand, there is something else I would like to ask the representative Anundsen about, and this is a look that was published in the daily newspaper on 21 January 2008, in which Progress Party Bureau Sylvi Listhaug says that teachers ‘have a blank mandate to destroy people’s future’. Does the representative, Anundsen, believe that such statements contribute to increasing the status and recruitment of the teaching profession?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e407	I think everyone has an important job to do in relation to speaking positively about the teachers. Very many of the teachers we have are very nice. But at the same time we're not going to stick under the chair that there are some teachers who should be thinking about different directions along the way. It is difficult to balance the use of concepts when talking positively about an entire profession, while at the same time solving challenges where you can guide people away from education. What is an important perspective — which the message is about very little, and where it should be much more proactive — is how to get out as early as possible in the course of the study as those students who are not initially suitable as teachers, because there are some of them as well. It's also a challenge we're going to take seriously.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e414	In his statement, the representative, Anundsen, in his description of the opposition's proposal for a five-year teacher training, shows that there is a somewhat different device. That's right, because the opposition isn't all about what kind of five-year teacher education you want, but there are different types of suggestions. The Progress Party proposes to support a comprehensive five-year teacher education in 2014. I do not think this is responsible, this is four years after the education has entered into force. Quality in education is a major challenge. We have to get more research staff, and we have to get more staff in the teachers' beliefs, because otherwise the result will be a lot of lay-offs in the education. Dørum replied in one of his lines, considering how to get this, that he wanted to send his proposal out at a wide consultation. This is not so different from what the government parties propose, but how will the Progress Party solve this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e423	First of all, I made it quite clear in my speech that there are different suggestions from the opposition parties on how the five-year teacher training should be. Nevertheless, the distance is much smaller than it is between the government parties and the opposition, because at least the Progress Party, the Right and the Left have recognised all the hearing bodies that were in open consultation on the Stortinget, namely that we need to get a five-year teacher training in place. There are so few government parties that they are not even willing to take any steps to implement what these are actually in the sector, is the right approach. They also considered that 2014 was the right time to introduce such five-year education. It is therefore the proposal of the Progress Party, the Left and the Right that one should choose 2014 as the time of implementation. It is then that it is realistic to have this implemented. But of course it requires that we have a different government, with much more of a school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e430	It's interesting to hear so many versions of what the fifth year is going to be like. When the fifth year is so important to you, why don't you eat it, stand together in the opposition and be stronger? That's my one question. The second is the ‘teacher trainers’, which is a good expression. As far as I could see, you were in your post occupied with them. As I understood it, they were kind of poorly qualified to do the job they're doing now. I think that in many ways is right, and that is also true to what NOCUT has said. So I'm going to ask, isn't that really a reason to hold the four-year teacher training for another while, until we get qualified to train teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e437	The President will recall that all speeches should be addressed to the President and not directly to the representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e440	I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e445	I didn't say the teachers were poorly qualified. I said we've had problems recruiting the best, because the best people have to go down in pay to become a teacher's trainer. Then the solution is not to keep a teacher training course of four years that falls between two chairs. Then the solution is that one makes it even more attractive both professional and rewarding to be a teacher, to be part of and contribute to creating teachers for the future that will again educate our children to be far, far more knowledgeable than the results we now get from the international studies show. Then it's not quite right that the difference of the fifth year is so great. Two of the proposers have very similar models. One of the proposers does not have the same device. But I did quite well explain what the Progress Party believes is the most important thing for the fifth year: 30 points in master's education, 10 points in practical training and 20 points where one places the important school management elements such as school-home cooperation, cooperation with other professional groups in school and a number of other issues that are important to a teacher.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e452	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e455	Like several of the other speakers, I also want to commend the case rapporteur, Odd Einar Dørum, for a good job. We have a lot of good teachers in Norway. We're so lucky. But at the same time, we know that they need more colleagues, and they still need to improve and evolve. This applies both during teacher training and when teachers have come into the profession. During the last government period, an evaluation plan for general teacher training was launched. It was NOCUT who stood for it. The result was a report in autumn 2006. When you hear the debate today, it is ironic in many ways to think that the party that currently has two ministers of knowledge, SV, was the only party that expressed itself against being evaluated in general teacher training. This was done in connection with the Knowledgelifting option. SV clearly considered that it was not necessary to carry out this evaluation. The evaluation report clearly indicates that the quality of general teacher training is highly variable. It also points out that the recording requirements introduced from the autumn of 2005 were correct and can be improved for the benefit of others. The Panel also points to the importance of a five-year general teacher training. It is simply to be able to see the link between subjects, pedagogics, vocational education and practice more comprehensively. When the report was presented, SV's then State Council Øystein Djupedal said that ‘The evaluation report shows that we need to strengthen the requirements for teacher training. This work will immediately be started by the Ministry. Furthermore, Djupedal said that ‘The evaluation here gives such clear indications of systematic weaknesses in current general teacher training as to the urgency of taking concrete action’. So it was supposed to be almost three years before the big message about general teacher education came, and when it came, it contained much more of the proposal to drop samples, investigate and send them out to the hearing than it contained concrete measures. But I also want to commend the Government for having implemented some suggestions in the message. Some are proposals that have been made by the Right and other opposition parties before, among others. proposals for lecturer II schemes, proposals for student loan depreciation for teacher students, etc., and not least the proposal for a clearer differentiation of general teacher training. I think it's quite a good move, and I think it makes sense that the government introduces a division between 1 and 7. steps and 5 to 10. steps. It has also been discussed whether to make an additional specialisation where, for example: imagines one-third or one-fourth. I think the results of the department are reasonable, simply because we have about 3,000 primary schools in Norway, there are many small schools, and if you were to differentiate teacher training even more clearly into steps, you might have problems covering the number of teachers in smaller schools. Yesterday, in the evening post, we read that 800 teachers between 25 and 29 years of age finished school last year. Every fourth lecturer went to school. The Education Association points to what many have pointed out, of course, that it is a practical shock that meets the students when they get into the learning situation. They experience a lack of organisation in the profession, and they experience that they have received training that has not prepared them well enough. Minister of Knowledge Bård Vegar Solhjell thought it was normal for young people to change jobs and not to overdramatize the situation. It is obvious that young people change jobs, but it is not quite so common for young people to change jobs after such a short period of time in a profession. And when a lecturer changes jobs from school to something else, or when an assistant – in case it was referred to in the evening post – was a photographer, that person is often lost for school for a long time, perhaps forever. That's what the challenge is. The right has asked for input in connection with the teacher’s message – and we have received many of them. Several underline the importance of longer practice and increased formal requirements for practical schools in relation to the follow-up of students. Several people who have taken teacher training say that their experience with the practice is that it is liquid, fragmented and too small. They also experience the meeting with reality as something quite different from what they expected, and one of them says: I think that teacher training needs to have more practice in classrooms with training with students and supervisors. Three times three weeks' practice is too small and gives only a small taste of what we can expect. We have far too little training in dealing with difficult situations in the classroom, and keeping track of the students. I think it's a description that's pretty opaque to the experience of a lot of teachers. There is also a reason why the Right chooses to do general teacher education — or what is now called primary school teacher education — for five years and to end with a year of practice, as well as the practice in the course of the study. It is an arrangement they have had in Scotland for nearly 40 years, which has worked very well, which has helped to prepare students better for what they meet, and which has helped not least to raise the status of the teaching profession. I mean, we can't have anything inexperienced about doing exactly those things. If we're going to have teachers we expect a lot of, we also have to give them an education that is demanding and relevant, and we have to expect a lot of seams when we do the education we expect the teachers to take. The year of practice shall be in our model in order to be able to pass the general teacher training, and it shall be carried out in close cooperation with the experienced supervisor and the principal. It is also the case that the year of practice in our model should be paid. This means that you do not have a full position as a teacher, but you are paid to work as a teacher in part of the time in that practical year. The right also organised a seminar on teacher training last autumn. We had many interested organisations, institutions and student organisations present. The Vice-Chairman of the National Council for Teacher Training and the Head of the Programme for Teacher Training at NTNU, Per Ramberg, stressed that European trends in teacher training are specialisation, that the seminar tradition must gradually give way to academia, and that it is moving towards the master’s degree as the main model of teacher training. When the committee was visiting Ireland and Denmark a little while ago to discuss teacher training, Danish educators were very concerned about the distinction between the seminar tradition and the academic tradition. They believed that this was the reason why Norwegian and Danish general teacher education had many of the same challenges: high drop-outs and little emphasis on academic aspects. Lasse Skogvold Isaksen, who is the Dean of Teacher Education at the University of Southern Trøndelag, also pointed out an important element that I believe the Committee and Government must be very concerned about, namely that it does not help how many fine reforms the Storting makes of teacher training, if it is not followed up by the institutions. He believes there has been a clear weakness and a clear deficiency in recent years that there has not been a clear enough follow-up from the department and that the institutions have not taken the responsibility they have to ensure that this is implemented. There are many aspects of general teacher training that need to be improved. The right, through its suggestions, has given input to some pages. One is that we want a mandatory RLE and history subject. We believe it is important because the tradition we have had in Norway is that we have a focus on religious education, also for those who are going to be teachers. It may be especially important in the times we are in, that we focus on the perspective of history/religion precisely because history and religion are the source of far more conflicts than we saw before. Then it's important to know something about it. We are also concerned that the Norwegian subject should be mandatory between 5 and 10. step; that is because the Norwegian subject is a nuclear subject. It is crucial for all teachers, and especially with the new continuous curricula, it is important that the teacher of nature also ensure that Norwegians are in place. It is no longer just a responsibility for the Norwegian teacher. We have made proposals for certification system for continuing training. We also propose tightening the recording requirements. It is also a topic for debate on the Knowledge Promise. We are in favour of – and promote the proposal again – making schoolleader education compulsory for those who are going to work as principals, and not least coordination of education in school management. We have a lot of education that was started in the last magnification period, but their content is not coordinated. We have also proposed a system of certification and prioritisation of institutions to provide teacher training. At the same time, I take the opportunity to address the proposals on the right alone, and the remaining proposals on the right are co-proposals. If we're to succeed in teacher training, we have to recruit the best and the most motivated for education. The successful countries recruit among the top third of the students. Finland is absolutely exceptional. That's one of the top 15 psts. We see that it has a meaning, and we see results. It is then important that the institutions take responsibility. It is then important that the Storting assumes responsibility by providing a general teacher education, or an elementary school teacher education, which is demanding, relevant and diverse. I believe that the government is taking too little responsibility. I believe that if the proposals made by the opposition parties had been adopted, we would have seen the many teachers demand, not just a speck of what lies there, but a break of the tradition that has been before. We depend on having the best teachers. We have many of them, but they need more colleagues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e518	The representative Ms Soreide has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e523	On 9 May last year, Mr Stortinget addressed the Left's proposal to introduce five-year teacher training. The representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide said at the time: ‘At the same time, it is important to bear in mind that the debate on general teacher training must start at the right end. In the opinion of the Right, the correct end will be to discuss the content of general teacher training. Then we have to sum it up and figure out if we're going to have a four-year or five-year education." In the context of the communication we are discussing today, the Right, together with the Left and the Progressive Party, are promoting proposals to introduce a five-year teacher training from 2014. Does this mean that the measures outlined in the communication will improve the content of the training to such an extent that, in the opinion of the Right, it will improve, inter alia, the content of the training. the intensity of studies, but also the upgrading of both the quality and the workload of teacher training institutions?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e533	It is quite right that from the very beginning, the Right has taken the view that we should not discuss four- or five-year teacher training and lock ourselves in there, but discuss what we want teacher training to contain, and then sum it up. We then came to the conclusion that in order to make room for what we want to have in general teacher education, among other things. a clearer emphasis on practice and improved practice, we will extend it to five years. At the same time, we are very aware of the feedback that has come, for example. from self-evaluation to the University of Oslo, Norway's largest teacher, namely that the four-year study there is in practice three years old, because the study intensity is too low, because the students read too little, and because it is only about three years old. 60 pst. which conducts the study in the normal time. We believe that the model we have for a new and improved primary school teacher education with a mandatory year of practice at the end will help to increase both the intensity of studies, tighten the requirements and at the same time make the education more relevant to those who are going to participate in the teaching process. We are satisfied with the model we have outlined. The reason for that is that we're not satisfied with the model that the government has outlined.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e540	Too many trained teachers choose to leave the teaching profession. It is a serious challenge that it is important to address, as this government does. There are many measures to be taken. Students say that they are experiencing a practical shock, which the representative Soreide was also involved in. In this big message and in the new teacher training there will be a fixed system of guidance for all newly educated teachers, i.e. a mentoring system that is incredibly important. If we go back to 2002, when the Søreide party was in government position and the government presented the report on teacher training, the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre suggested that such mandatory arrangements should be introduced for all students at the end of education. When the Right was in position, this was not considered important enough. Why not?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e547	After all, it is relatively funny that the government party SV now suddenly opposes the mandatory nature of the guidance system when they put forward proposals on the same subject in 2002. What is at the heart is that, over the last government period, we got a lot of good action going on with guidance around the municipalities. We now see the need to sharpen it. That is why, together with other parties, we have made a proposal that the guidance provided in the message should be a right and an obligation, i.e. mandatory. We see today that large school owners are often good at providing guidance/mechanism for teachers. The municipality of Oslo has, for example: 50 hours of training for newly-trained teachers, and they follow up well along the way. The same thing happens to Skien municipality. But we see that many of the municipalities that are currently struggling with poor advice because of poor local economy under this government give priority to guidance from newly educated teachers. It's very sad, because there's a need for that. We have included in our proposal to make it a right and an obligation, make it mandatory. We had hoped to get the government parties' support for that, but they obviously don't think it's important enough.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e552	It's not like a five-year run itself is a master's degree. But in his reply, the representative Ljunggren was in the middle of Røre's somewhat different view of four years of education or five years of age. I've been a little uncertain about what the Right really means. Another example of this is that on 29 November 2008, the representative Eriksen Soreide, in the NRK, said that the Right would impose tougher demands on access to teacher training and would raise the character requirement to at least 4. In the setting we are discussing today, the Right does not promote any suggestions on this, but a general proposal to increase the recording requirements in Norwegian and in math. I disagree with the Right in more stringent recording requirements. I think it'll rage the search for education. But I wonder very much what the Right really means. Can we trust the Right when they propose one thing in the media and suggest something else when we deal with issues in Stortinget? Or is it so that the Right has changed its view in this matter as well?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e559	The representative Gorm Kjernli and everyone else can trust the line that the Right has led all the way. We were the ones who introduced recording requirements, against the will of the Workers' Party, the Center Party and the SV. We're also the ones who have arranged to increase the recording requirements. We have repeated it in drafts of representatives, and we are now repeating it. We think it's important, because it helps to increase the status. It gives notice that it is important to have good grades from upper secondary education in central education in order to receive teacher training. I think it's a paradox, as the Workers' Party should also see, that at universities there is strong scrutiny and high quality requirements for access to education, while at colleges there are many places below half a primary applicant per year. Possible values are: space, space, space. It goes without saying that it's quite difficult to recruit teachers too. We have always insisted that there must be a requirement to enter the general teacher's education. We have implemented it both through proposals, through the policy we led in government – and that line is also going to continue when we join the government next time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e566	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e569	The rapporteur thanked the Committee, and I would like to thank the rapporteur for having managed the work of the Committee in a good and tidy manner, and for having received a good treatment from the Teacher – the role and training, i.e. the communication on the new teacher training. This has led to a good result. The new teacher training adopted today will be a reality for the future. Good teachers must be professionally safe and able to adapt their teaching to the individual student and to the different stages of the school. Being a teacher is probably one of the most important and demanding jobs we have in Norway. The teacher shall encourage, develop and pursue interest, creativity, curiosity and make the students reach the next goal. It is important that the teacher facilitates democratic processes and participation by the students. The teacher needs a high level of knowledge and a strong educational affiliation in order to manage the educational processes. We need more teachers, better teacher training. We have to make sure that the students complete the education. The lack of teacher training is far too high today. Training must be well recruited and a good system of continuing training must be ensured. The teacher's first meeting with the profession must be good, so that we can be sure that most people choose to be taught. All these challenges provide a good and concrete response to the big picture. The message attaches great importance to the teacher's interaction between the student and the parents. All parents are a resource for their children’s schooling. It is important to have a positive starting point in relation to the role of parents in the learning of their children and to develop measures that contribute to active parental participation in school. The new training of teachers contributes to raising awareness of the role of the home. Good cooperation between home and school could lead to a much greater degree of social cohesion. However, the good principal and good school management are also prerequisites for the school to develop a good learning environment. It is a very central prerequisite for the teacher to be able to function well in his everyday life. From the autumn of 2009, a systematic offer of schoolleader education will be launched for the first time for newly appointed principals and principals who do not already have formal schoolleader competence. It is foreseen that the training will be completed over two years and that there will be room for provision of training up to a maximum of 600 principals per year. years. In recent years, Norwegian schools have been subjected to intense attention and debate. There have been a number of discouraging results on the international PISA tests, and there have been great variations in the national tests and evaluation tests that we have. It has put an incredibly important focus on what the school can get better at, and on the development potential we have. Early efforts have become a trademark of this Government – that students will receive help when they need it. There is more effort on the first steps with more hours and more teachers in Norwegian and mathematics, because too many children are leaving school today without being able to read and write properly. This does something about SV. The evaluation of general teacher training from 2006 was clear. The review carried out by NOKUT showed that we have a number of weaknesses in Norwegian general teacher training. This Government immediately initiated action against the institutions. Today we are here with a new teacher education to be adopted in Stortinget, which will stand in the future. The change in teacher training will contribute to a better school. The broad outlines of the communication have been widely agreed and have been widely supported in the different disciplines. No one is served by a teacher training that is the victim of political rematches and draw matches. Therefore, SV is very pleased that there is such broad support for the measures in this big message. The last time we debated teacher training in this room was in 2002. New teacher training was decided on 19 June 2002. It's just a little under seven years ago. It is a goal that this teacher training is so well-worked and so well-structured that it will last over time. The big message we are dealing with today has had thorough and continuous processes. We cannot have the kind of negotiations that we had last in Stortinget, for example. when the CRL profession became mandatory through political negotiations and not anchored in the professional sector. The teacher’s working day consists of many assigned tasks that steal time and a lot of teaching time is lost in basic training. This is why many measures have been taken by the Government, including: a screening work. A time-use sample has also been set up to look at the time-use. We have instructed the municipalities to produce annual reports on quality in school – this will lead to good practice and quality assurance work being developed in schools. The national tests and screening tests introduced by the Swedish Government are also an incredibly important tool for teachers in their daily work. Guidance curricula have also been developed so that teachers can have something to lean on in their work. We get a new primary school teacher training with emphasis on professional immersion and specialisation. It is absolutely necessary to ensure the professional safety of teachers. When the teacher has a high level of competence, he can identify what the student needs help and what action needs to be taken. The new teacher training is divided into two different levels of education, a childhood and a youth, 1–7. steps and 5 to 10. steps. On 1st to 7th Steps are Norwegian and mathematically compulsory subjects, whereas they range from 5 to 10. not be added to any compulsory subject other than the new pedagogical subject. Policy is not determined by study score, but represents about 30 points, i.e. six months of training. It is important, as the Government proposes, to start early and have a continuous practice throughout the course. The steps taken in the message are important and correct. The field of practice is strengthened by a system of quality assurance for practical schools, trainers and all practical training. Practice criteria and requirements are established. A common framework for the assessment of theory and practice is established. There will also be research in the field of practice. There will be no more practice than before, but there will be better practice. The right and the other opposition parties propose more practice, but that is not where the need is. It has been shown. There is a need to enhance its quality. It is also established in a Nordic comparative study that has just been presented. The quality of practice is crucial for good teacher training. The new teacher training is a research-based teacher training. National teacher training schools are established. Bachelor's duties are introduced, and several master's offerings are also established. A new and expanded pedagogical subject is being introduced, which has doubled in relation to the old, with a total of one year, and must be mandatory in both main aspects of teacher training. The course is a consequence of the thorough treatment of teacher training. The subject shall have three functions: it shall be the teacher's platform, it shall provide methodological teacher competence and it shall maintain the social and relational relationship between the student and the teacher. The subject, called ‘pedagogics and learner’s knowledge’, shall be practical and shall be based on the need for teachers today who have both good professional competence and the ability to communicate and inspire. The former pedagogical subject was criticized for being too academic and corrected away from school — not into school. This will change with the new subject. When we dealt with previous teacher training in 2002, there was a report from the Norwegian Web Council showing that the students wanted more pedagogics and didactics. The common platform, which they thought was so important, was not present. SV then proposed to double the scope to 60 credits and turn the subject into a more practical subject. SV is pleased that a common increase is in line with this proposal today, but it could have been introduced in 2002. Quality, length and level have been central to this work. We focus on the need to build up the skills of educational institutions. We need to build up both professional competence, research competence, etc. This will take time, so when the opposition proposes a five-year teacher training in 2014, it is not real or reasonable to introduce it. We also introduce a mentoring system, which is important for students to have a good follow-up after completion of education. A new and more specialised education will increase the interest in the teaching profession. Increased quality and better follow-up of individuals will make teacher training more attractive to students.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e613	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e617	Why is senior policy not mentioned in the Communication?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e622	In the opinion, the Committee referred to senior policy. Firstly, it is up to the employer to implement various measures in the field of senior policy. I know that a lot of municipalities are good in this area. They have put in place good measures, including: with regard to reduced working time. Until now, the Government has focused on general, important measures to strengthen recruitment, but senior measures are important to be included in the new Competence Survey, which is also presented to the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e627	The representative Jensen was delighted with broad support. It is not so difficult to reach broad agreement when, broadly speaking, it is not proposed — or implemented — very controversial measures and is reluctant to go further. Then the opposition's role is to try to push more, because the message is permeated by pushing all the choices – you want to make investigations and that kind of thing, and you refuse to raise demands. The representative, Jensen, was in his contribution to the issue of non-response, and NOKUT pointed out how important it was to make demands in order to reduce the problems of non-response. In addition, the representative issues both in reply and in his post with a five-year education. When should SV avoid talking about the importance of requirements for the status of the teaching profession and get there to start implementing?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e639	All the measures implemented by the Swedish Government show that SV is concerned with requirements and quality. I was in my post about a number of the measures we have implemented during this ageing period, which we are in the process of implementing. And in this big message that we are dealing with today, there are concrete measures to improve the quality of education. To just mention some of the things I've been dealing with: practical guidance, a new mentoring system, a development of two races and a whole new subject in teacher training. And the fact that we're developing two races will make the teacher safer in his role, because you'll be specialized – up against the age and up against the students you're doing. It is important – and SV is absolutely not opposed – to set quality standards, but SV does not want to do so in the same way as the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e646	It must be emphasised that there was an offer of guidance presented by SV in 2002 and perhaps not a mandatory mentoring scheme. It's a big concern today, and it's all the teachers who disappear in the first year they're out in practice. We can both read the message and hear the representative and others from the government parties talk about us now, among other things. shall have mentoring arrangements. Today, existing teachers have an incredible number of assignments in school. So you don't want to put this into a structural system that makes both the mentor and those to be "mentored" free to do this, and that it doesn't fit into a system that makes this mandatory and a good process. What's the reason why this is just going to be imposed as an extra problem that you might be allowed to deal with, and that we know is going to drown in general?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e655	The proposal that will be adopted here today after we have discussed the notification is that all students should be offered guidance in the first year they are out in practice. This is important. And that was the same proposal that the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre had when the Christian People's Party put in government in the previous period and voted down the proposal. It is important to have a guidance system so that when students have completed their education, they can have some people on whom they can feel safe and whom they can receive guidance in their daily work. I am sure that this will lead to more teachers not experiencing the practical lesson in the same way as they do today, and will choose to be in the teaching profession instead of leaving it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e664	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e667	Let me also thank the case rapporteur for a good job with the perhaps most important message that we are dealing with in the field of education during this period, because now the future teachers are to be laid down. That's why I think it's a little disappointing that the government parties have not been committed to reaching an even wider consensus on this matter, because I think such a broad consensus had given predictability and a calmness both for the educational institutions and for the future teachers. The opposition has been open to it, but the government has not wanted to go into a deeper process. The main approach in the notification is to replace the general teacher's broad professional competence with specialisation and immersion in subjects and stages. I agree with this. At the same time, I think the general teacher has gotten a lot of thin. It is important not to forget that the general teacher training has prepared the teacher well for the teacher's diverse pedagogical everyday life. This side of the teaching tradition must be able to take care of and continue. The Christian People's Party is sceptical that when applying for admission to teacher training, students must decide whether to work in high school or in primary school. Applicants will not have sufficient grounds to make choices, and the risk of errors will be high. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that the first year should be largely common to both races. This year should have a significant share of practice to give students a clearer starting point for making a reflected choice. I think it's right to strengthen the requirements of professional competence in order to teach, but at the same time it's important to consider that this could pose quite major challenges for district schools, especially small schools. They will have difficulties in obtaining teachers who, overall, have sufficient competence for teaching in all disciplines. The school structure in Norway is very varied, and it is important to ensure that all students receive professionally good and competent teachers, and that we do not risk having many dispensation schools. During the committee procedure, the issue of the length of training has become a major issue. Are we going to have four years or a master's degree of five years? I don't think it would be enough just to expand the length of education to get a better teacher training. All too often, the solution is to propose extended time, believing that one then slightly improves education. First of all, it's the content of teacher training we have to look at. If it is to be completed by an additional year, it must be clearly formed as to the year in which it is to be completed. We have to achieve quality in the four years before we possibly introduce a fifth. Such a year must mean strengthening the steps we choose to take for the four already existing years. A question such as: must be clarified, is what the Bachelor's degree should be. What function should it have? What is it supposed to give competence to? Should it be, for example, be able to go to work after this and in case of what job? These are questions I experience that those who want a master are jumping smoothly over. The proposal for a central and comprehensive teaching profession in teacher training is an exciting proposal which, however, seems to contain everything for the time being. It is positive that there is a new approach to the pedagogical subject, but there must be much stronger leads to what the subject should contain than the government has so far signaled. If the subject is to succeed, it must become clearer in terms of both content and objectives. The curve has to be modulated to give more structure. For our part, it is essential that the subject be made more practice-related, and that it be at the same time possible to verify that the student has received what they should have. I think so, for example. will be important for teachers in educational institutions to have accommodation arrangements in school at regular intervals and for trainers to be involved in teacher training in order to teach. For the first time in history, teacher training will not include religion, life views or ethics as compulsory subjects. This happens at the same time as we have adopted a new purpose paragraph, such as: means that the training shall: ‘show respect for an individual’s over-interpretation’. The wording shows that Norwegian school has a greater intention of taking individual life interpretation seriously than in the past. I am afraid that the proposal to remove the religion subject as a compulsory subject will lead to the students now being less equipped to meet the school everyday when they come out as teachers. A person shall be able to engage in dialogue and deal with potential conflicts on the basis of culture and religion. Knowledge of the religious implications for each student is needed in many subjects, not just in teaching the RLE subject. For example, drawing, food and health and exercise are subjects where the teacher needs competence in what a multicultural society means for the school. This proposal runs counter to international recommendations and trends. Most European countries, including France, now resumes religious knowledge as an important element of teacher training. The OSCE believes that because of events around the world, migration, and wondrous misconceptions about religions and cultures, there is a great need for knowledge of different religions and ways of life. They believe that any basic teacher training should include insight into cultural and religious diversity. One would think that the government's meeting with religious questions such as hijab-debate and blasphemic would lead to a desire and need and an understanding that one needs more knowledge and not less. In order to keep teachers in school, it is essential that they are given the best possible start to their career. That is why we need to avoid the famous practice of newly educated teachers. Unfortunately, this message does not solve that challenge. In order to strengthen the link between theory and practice, we will not avoid taking any structural action. Better practice is needed, but also more practice. Therefore, the Christian People's Party has repeatedly proposed a mandatory mentoring scheme in the form of an introduction year. We are pleased that the government is now making an offer for guidance, but at the same time we believe that introducing a voluntary offer is not good enough. A clear ambition and objective should be to make a mentoring scheme in the form of an introductory year mandatory for all newly trained teachers. The year of introduction will, on our proposal, be the first year of work, where they will of course receive the usual salary. It should consist of a tailor-made programme for the development and support of the newly trained teacher, with observations, cooperation with other teachers, visits to other schools, participation in formal training, etc. It is important that they themselves actively contribute to the design in order to ensure optimum benefits. In order not to do this as an additional task, there must be a reduction in compulsory education in order to achieve this. Individuals must have their own mentor who regularly monitor and provide support. mentors must also be released from other duties, so that guidance does not become an additional task. Regular review of progress and formal discussions will also be important at the end of each semester with the guidance teacher and/or principal. We also believe that further consideration should be given to whether the introduction year should end with certification. In addition to a personal programme of development, support and professional dialogue and monitoring, an assessment of performance against professional standards could then be introduced. Newly educated teachers must then meet the requirements of these standards during the first year of school. We therefore ask the Ministry to see this in conjunction with the introduction of a mandatory mentoring scheme in the form of an introduction year. The reality is that newly-trained teachers are already subject to certification in the early years. There's just no one talking about it. Today, newly educated teachers often have to go canoeing from the Victorian to the Vicariat in order to try to fill up a full-time job. Today, it acts as a certification scheme in the sense that we keep the good teachers, but the best teachers may disappear. They don't want the "most graceful" to sew together some percentages here and there, some hours here, some vicariates there, until after a few years they get a firm position and approval. This is a serious reality for all our newly educated teachers, and it seems negative in relation to recruiting the profession and keeping the best teachers. I think it's time we ended the informal certification system that we have today, that no one has dared to talk about, and maybe put it into a more formal system. Finally, I will address the brilliant suggestions that the Christian People's Party has alone in the setting, and recommend them at the warmest.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e701	The representative, Dagrun Eriksen, has drawn up the proposals she referred to. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e706	It looks as if the Christian People's Party largely agrees with the Government. That's very good, but it shows the distance on the bourgeois side. The Christian People's Party is involved in our comment on progress towards a five-year education, but they also have their own comment on developing the four years we already have. It's always nice to be able to sanctify yourself, but what does the Christian People's Party really mean? Do they want a four-year-old, or do they want a five-year education?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e713	We think it's way too early to go for a five-year education. We believe that the first thing we need to address is the content of the four years we already have. I think that a lot of people in the environment have been fascinated by getting a five-year master and the status that it gives – and I fully agree that it will provide for teacher training. But I think we'll do a bomb if we don't do anything about the content of the four years. We also want the fifth year not to be a probationary system in the study, but that we give it as the first year of education, that we should get paid, be fully employed and take it seriously. That's where you meet the practice and can take it more seriously, and not when you're still a student.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e719	It was actually something of the same thing I was going to record. In the introduction to the article, the representative was concerned that the government had not been listening, for a need for a broad majority in such matters as this. I agree with the representative in many ways. That's why I think it was very interesting to notice that the representative, like everyone else, was interested in these two different races, and then ended up with a four-year education. My question was: why didn't the representative get involved in the five-year course? It's kind of black on it, but the representative would like to elaborate on it. Besides, it could be interesting to hear how you think of practice, if you're going to have a first year in common.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e728	We didn't get involved in the five-year run, because we think we have a job to do with the four years, before maybe you're a fifth year old. There's already a master's degree that will lead to teacher training this year, but I think the four-year content and how to formulate it is actually much better. Moreover, as I said in my post, the Bachelor's degree in this course is also hanging as a strange thing, which will not qualify for a vocational education. It also happens in other studies, but I think it's something that you have to discuss before going to a five-year education. Just as with the hourly expansion in primary school, we don't just believe in more time, we believe in content. When it comes to the last question, if -- give me a key!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e737	I'm not allowed to say anything.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e742	No – you could do it anyway. That was a good question, but I don't remember it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e747	The representative has the ability to take a new line, if that is a wish.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e750	It was very nice for me to get the opportunity of two lines. It's not often. The representative was concerned that it was too early that it was divided into two runs already the first year in the new teacher school. But some of the point is that you should have practice very early. My question to the representative will then be: Will it not be a merger? How do you think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e759	I knew it was a good question that I wanted to answer, so I am very happy for this occasion. I think it is quite important that the practice of the first year is carried out both at 1–7. steps and from 5 to 10. Steps, precisely because I think that some people who have believed in the myths that there are women who are going to be at high school, and men in high school, will have the opportunity to see that there is actually a rather demanding race both at high school and at high school. Then you get a much bigger and better basis to choose whether you want to specialize in the younger ones or the older ones. Therefore, in the first year we want to have practice at both stages, so that you get a much larger reference basis to decide what you want to specialize in.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e766	The exchange of reply is over, and the President assumes that the question is now answered.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e769	At the very beginning of the teacher's message setting, a single committee decides: ‘... it is essential that Norwegian teacher training is of high quality and that education reflects the broad societal and political consensus that teachers should offer the best education in the Norwegian school.’ That's one side. As everyone here knows, on behalf of the Ministry of Education and Research, NOKUT was tasked with evaluating today's general teacher training. The main report of this evaluation was presented in September 2006. The evaluation panel was in agreement. The main impression was that the quality of Norwegian general teacher training was very variable, and there was a lack of coherence in different areas. My main point is, here's room for improvement, and it's far ahead to meet the committee's demands for what I mentioned in the introduction. Schools have also been, and are still, the most debated topic in the media. There are different reasons for this: calm, order, PISA studies, etc. Besides, we've had a number of school debates in this room. There's nothing better, I think, than that there's coming a new message about new teacher training. Then I hear the opposition say that it takes too long from NOKUT's evaluation to the new notice of teacher training on the table. Firstly, it is probably right to say that some measures have already been taken in the field of teacher training. Secondly, it's probably not two years that long if it's done a great and thorough job. The feedback from work on the Storing Message has been positive, and the actors have stated that the process has been very thorough and well anchored. There's been a lot of commitment around general teacher training, and that's good. That there is also a consensus in this room about the big lines, that you have left for thoroughness. The length of teacher training has been divided into opinions. Should it be in four years, or should it be in five years? When one in this game ends up with four years, it's probably wise. It is also supported by various organisations. Among other things, the Research Association mentions it. As mentioned earlier, teacher institutions also have a way to go in different ways. But any attempts made with five-year primary education will provide valuable experience to see what the fifth year can be filled with. More of the same is not the case. It is good that a sample is set up to determine whether it is appropriate for everyone to have a master's offer. The really exciting thing now is that teacher education is divided into two equivalent, but differentiated courses. True, all teachers can teach just as well at all stages of all subjects, it's good that we get completely away from it. Like Anundsen, I have also been so lucky that I have been visiting the University of Westfold. You can see that as an example in the message. They've already started new teacher training. The students are very excited about it, and the teachers at the teacher's school and the teachers at the school where the students have practice are happy. In addition to the students starting the practice right away, some of them were also trainers. They had some kind of assistant job at school, so they got in touch with school life as well as normal practice. Then I am on a practical basis – well-known for many professional groups, but teachers probably notice it extra well when they are suddenly alone in the class for the first time, or are going to arrange their first parental meeting. With this teacher training, we get more attention around the field of practice. It is necessary to lay down clearer frameworks and requirements than is currently the case. To this end, a quality assurance system shall be developed for practical schools, trainers and the practical training provided, as well as mandatory training of practical teachers. The new subject, pedagogics and learning skills are very important. It must give teachers a professional position, methodological knowledge, and it is very much in line with this. If the subject is to be relevant to the teaching profession, it must be continuously developed and adapted to the development of society and school. Regardless of whether we get a new teacher training, we now – I will end by saying – have to make sure that the teachers have time to do their job. Therefore, we have high expectations for the Time Usage Committee, which is reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e798	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e801	"We base our programme on the Christian basis of values, and follow a value conservative line that Christians will feel familiar with," said Central Party leader Åslaug Haga in the 2005 election year. In retrospect, we know that the Center Party has had to swallow many large camels in terms of religion and value issues, after they helped to get the Workers' Party and not least SV into the government offices. In this case, one of the questions about the RLE subject is to be compulsory in teacher training. Does not the Central Party see that having knowledge of other views of life and religions and practice of associating differently thinking and believing is useful to all today’s and tomorrow’s teachers? Or is this probably an example of the Central Party kneeling down for the government colleagues on a question that has to do with values and value?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e811	I don't want to use the word "kneefall" in this context. As far as the RLE subject is concerned, it is absolutely right that it should not now be compulsory in the teacher's school. That's a change from what's been before. There have been many changes in the new education that are now coming. So you could say, is that wrong? I don't think so. We have had many bad religious teachers around us. Now we'll get teachers who can specialize in the subject and have a lot of knowledge about it. I think that might be so important. In addition, we should also be aware that the new and expanded pedagogical subject will provide much of the value that we have provided in the purpose paragraph for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e820	I also noticed that the representative did not mention the RLE subject in his post. I think Norwegian teachers are facing quite major challenges in the future class image in this particular case. It is very important that you meet these kinds of questions with both competence and weight that you have received through your education. It must be a paradox for the Centre Party to go in and vote against a mandatory RLE course in teacher training, as the position is going to do today. What kind of thinking does the representative think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e827	I can repeat some of the arguments that I used instead, because that's about the same question. It was said that I did not mention the RLE subject in my post. I had five minutes, and then it's not so good to get all the highlights – to use that expression. In that it is not now going to be a compulsory subject, but that one should choose a subject – as I mentioned earlier – I expect that we will be particularly interested in choosing the different subjects and deepening ourselves in them. So we can get teachers who are much more professionally skilled than what we see in school today. This also applies to the RLE subject. And as I have also mentioned earlier, it will expand the pedagogical subject take too much of this into account and follow up on it as a mass accumulation went into the purpose paragraph for the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e836	The centre party is completely consistent in not seeking knowledge in any areas. The representative, Mr. Enger, says to apply for knowledge applies to the 5-10 race, but it does not apply to the 1-7 race. So the representative actively votes against history and religious knowledge in the 1-7 race. But more importantly, the representative also disagrees to make professional demands for teachers who are in school today. Let me do an example. We have small subjects like food and health, where there are an incredible number of teachers who lack both formal competence and depression. By voting against this, the Centre Party, by voting here today, is actually opposed to ensuring that general knowledge, which is necessary for public health, is not required in school today — that is. The centre party is a little sure about new teachers, but those who are in school today are not supposed to have that competence. I get to say that I am surprised that a party that has been on the grounds of public information is not tougher and sharper when it comes to setting standards of competence for the teachers that our kids are going to meet around the school in the whole country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e845	I fully agree with Dørum that it is important to make demands for teachers, but it is also such that you cannot learn everything in the field. There's a lot of attitudes that you have with you. Doorroom is most concerned about the teachers who are in school today. It's not me, because there's a lot of people my age who have a lot of knowledge from the past and who have a lot of experience. They're going to pass that on to the students. Therefore, it is probably more important that those who are new teachers get more depression in the field than those who are there today get.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e852	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e855	In the last year, the Norwegian school has been subjected to intense attention and debate. Disturbed results in the international PISA tests sent powerful waves into school debates. The evaluation of general teacher training from 2006 was a similar wake-up. The review carried out by the National Quality Education Body, NOCUT, revealed major deficiencies and weaknesses in the Norwegian general education system. It's said here in the hall that nothing was done. Of course, that's wrong. The government took these results, especially the NOCUT evaluation, very seriously. We immediately initiated the improvement points NOCUT proposed for teacher training institutions, but very soon it became clear that there was a need to make fundamental changes in teacher training. I am very sure that the government has presented a change in teacher training that is going to create a better school. The main features of the communication have been widely supported – including from the opposition. No one deserves to be taught as a victim of political change. I would therefore like to commend the parties on the Stortinget which, with today's treatment, ensure solid primary school teacher training. Especially affordable is the fact that Stortinget has dealt with the staging message so quickly and with such great seriousness. This will ensure that we are quick to implement the measures. The main reason why work on creating a new primary school teacher education has been successful is to find in the very thorough process that the Government has been working after. Rarely has such work been so widely anchored, and rarely have so many been involved in feeling ownership of the process and being so well acquainted with the results. Very many relevant actors have been strongly involved. Work has always been characterised by dialogue and openness. Thus, one has ensured that leading actors have ownership of the important changes proposed by the Government, because there are changes in relation to today’s teacher training. I note that the Government's proposals have almost been unisoned by the professional environment. I am also convinced that it was absolutely necessary to go through a thorough process to improve the content of four-year education before we concluded on the length of education. Extension of education would not solve any problems. The work of creating a new teacher training course may be compared to running Holmenkolstafatten. These are many long and heavy stages. In our case, the stages have been about dividing education into two equivalent courses, it's been about developing systems to create a better relationship between theory and practice, it's been about creating a follow-up system in the first year of school to counteract the so-called practice of many speakers. And there have been many stages in the process that have been involved in systematic follow-up, training and quality development of the institutions. Parts of the opposition appear as if they only want to run the scarf steppe. One-sided attention to the length of education is, in my view, too light. Before you can run the easy scarve and the last stages, you have to go through the heavier stages, and it's an important work that needs to be done. The main intervention proposed by the Government is to divide primary education into two equivalent directions. This is based on a clear understanding that there is a fundamental difference between learning a six-year-old to read and giving fifteen-year-olds a thorough insight into advanced mathematical contexts. At the same time as the government has chosen, we will facilitate the future primary school teachers, who specialise in 5-10. step, will have room for thorough professional immersion. I think a professional depression, based on motivation and interests, is the key prerequisite for getting teachers who are professionally safe on themselves. This has also been highlighted in the message as the main aspect of the teacher's role, and there is general excitement about exactly this part of the message. The second main approach proposed by the Government is the creation of a new and expanded pedagogical discipline — pedagogics and learning skills. This subject is the consequence of the very thorough discussion of the teaching role of the message. The course itself is glued to primary school teacher training. In this subject, the teacher role will be designed, and the student's ability to reflect will be rehearsed. The subject shall have three functions: it shall provide the teaching platform, it shall provide methodological teacher competence, and it shall provide competence for social and relational matters. I am pleased that the committee has so thoroughly evaluated this subject. The subject shall constitute the backbone of the new teacher training and it is not appropriate to fill it in too many details. But I fully agree with Mr Dørum that this subject is fundamental to the formation that will take place through being a student in teacher training. The government has also presented a number of other important changes that are scarcely mentioned because they have had a general uproar immediately. Systematic continuing education, better integration of practice and follow-up of fresh teachers in the first year of school are some of these examples. The current attitude of Stortinget shows that the parties have slightly different views on the scope and arrangements of the measures, the pace of implementation and funding. The highest attention has been given to the question of the length of education. I am convinced that the Government has chosen the professionally correct solution. The government proposes a gradual increase in master's offerings that are specifically tailored to primary school needs. There are not so many of these master's offerings today, so they need to be developed. The future period shall be used to enhance the quality of the four-year primary school teacher training, to build up the research skills of the professional staff and to develop master's offerings in accordance with the needs of the school. A sample will then be given the task of investigating whether and where appropriate, a five-year master's offer for all students. This is a procedure such as: The research association has joined. It must be allowed to ask: Why does the opposition want a five-year primary school teacher training right in 2014? I have heard some arguments for it, but there is no documented professional basis for choosing just such a time, this year. It is not professional to set a time for full five-year teacher training now. Here, as I said, there are a lot of pieces to put in place. I would nevertheless like to stress that the Government's proposals do not end up in favour of such a development in the future either. We encourage and encourage a number of students we like to watch the five-year master's programmes. But the first and most important step is to improve the content of four-year education. I am pleased that the committee's position shows that there is political outreach on the major steps proposed by the Government. At the political level, we need to find a common framework for the new training of teachers, a framework that is consistent with the needs of the school. At the same time, teacher training shall be in constant development. I want to thank all those who have gone the important stages of this staff together with us. There has been a very thorough work done in many places. As I said, the process we have had of providing the teaching message in consultation and cooperation with many actors has been an open and also quite inclusive process. I hope now that we're going to make a run for future teacher training that can be a good political agreement, and that will give us a boost both to the teacher's ability to do a better job in the classroom, and to get a better school, and to have a broad political outreach on the important elements of future teacher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e891	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e894	The Progress Party will have a five-year teacher training. We believe that we have the opportunity to run all of the stages. According to the State Council and the Department, one of the main objections to extending teacher training is that the level of competence of the institutions is not satisfactory in offering master-level teacher training. During the hearing, it appeared that the institutions themselves consider that they could be able to build up this necessary competence by 2014, subject to State intervention and strategy. My question then is: is it only the government's lack of willingness to set up a strategy and provide the necessary resources to ensure that the government does not support a five-year education, or does the ministry have a better understanding of what the educational institutions can do than what they themselves have?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e901	I think the department has a pretty good insight into the institutions. We have very good contact with them. We have tried to find out what is the documented and professional basis for the University and Higher Education Council to say what they said in the hearing to the Committee. But we've actually found no basis, other than that they think it's possible to implement in 2020. This is a claim for which we have simply not documented professional coverage. What I think is important to focus on is that we need to develop master's offerings that are not least appropriate to the teacher's role at primary school level, in early childhood and in early childhood. We haven't developed master's offerings for those steps. Most of the master’s offerings available today are tailored to higher education. Here we have a way to go. We also have a way of developing the necessary teaching skills in teacher training institutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e908	The Council of State writes an article in the newspaper Østlandingen on admission requirements for general teacher training on 11 August 2008. She then wrote that they were implemented to increase the level of competence and were met ‘with broad support’. This is a little strange when you think that when this was introduced through a talk in the Knowledgelift, SV argued, together with the Workers' Party and the Centre, against admission requirements for general teacher training, on the grounds that such a proposal could remove the attention from the content and structure of teacher training. The question is now: Is the Government in favour of or against admission requirements for general teacher training?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e918	The government is in order to maintain the admission requirements for teacher training introduced a few years ago. The reason for this is very clear: we think there is a need to make some demands. We also see, of course, that there has been a positive development in relation to that. We now see that if we are able to get qualified applicants to start teaching, we have a good opportunity to get many more than today through a good race. I must also be allowed to clarify a manifest misunderstanding in my previous answer. The opposition says that a five-year teacher training course should be introduced in 2014. I said another year, and I take the opportunity to regret it. But I've seen what the opposition meant.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e925	One of the major challenges is to link practice and theory more closely in the teacher training cycle. The Christian People's Party agrees with the Government that you have to think about content first before you think about length in some way. But one of the things that the message doesn't take on, and that the government doesn't discuss just to link practice and theory closer together, is how the teacher's practice is. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that teachers are much more hospiced into school everyday life, where they also have to deal with problems of puberty and challenges in real life, and that teachers and their skills are much more widely used in teaching at teacher training institutions, thus linking theory and practice much more closely?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e930	The system we are now in favour of, with a better integration of theory and practice, contains exactly the elements that the representative here calls for. We should get better agreements with practical schools. At the same time, the mentoring system for the newly educated will also be an important link to the higher education institutions if you choose to use mentors that are purchased free in this way. It will also provide better contact with what is going on in practice. I was visiting Strinda high school in Trondheim yesterday. There were two trainees who had both a practice coordinator at school and a good practice set-up, who again played back at the teacher training institution. That's exactly how we want to have it. This was a good way to do it, and I fully agree that there is a need for contact with the field of practice in order for teachers in teacher training institutions to benefit from a combination of theory and practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e937	Let me first point out that the Council of State does not have the greatest confidence in the university and higher education sectors when they say in open consultation that they can deliver a five-year master by 2014. It contrasts with the high level of confidence in the same sector when they have to manage them with little money in a sensible and wise way and avoid harm – but still. Let me take another main question to the Council of State: what is it that the Government, which is taking an important step in that there must be professional requirements in order to teach in all subjects, will not implement it for the teachers who are in school today? Raising the teachers at school today would be a powerful signal both to those who are in school and not least to those who are willing to apply for the reformed teacher training we are discussing. What is it that makes the government back on this? Is the answer to the question that the Government will not give priority to the money for the systematic and broad further education that we then had to have in order to ensure that all teachers would receive the further education, including those who are in school today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e944	The government spends 400 million in the year. SEK for continuing training of teachers. If you had gone for the Left's proposal to buy free teachers, a year ago roughly, you would have had such a big problem meeting the teacher's needs in school that it would not be proper to do so. That's why we haven't gone for the left model of freeing teachers for continuing training. We have a very clear set-up, and we are now getting a continuous set-up for continuing education that is just supposed to take care of the teachers who are in school, because we want to keep them there longer. I think we can all agree on that. We have a little bit of different approaches to this, but we're busy with it, and we're spending money on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e951	I would first like to say that I am also very surprised that the Council of State believes that the University and Higher Education Council does not know what they are talking about when it is considered that it is realistic to conduct a master's degree course for teachers by 2014. I notice that the Council of State also says that there are many things that need to be clarified before a master's degree can be obtained, but it would probably be an advantage if you then knew what to go in the direction of, that the Government was clear that it wanted to end up with a master's degree scheme for teacher training, instead of now sending various signals in a lot of different directions, and no one knows what to do with. But the question is about a challenge that I gave the Council of State in my contribution to the teachers, which now has to go down in pay. If you have 16 years of experience and are a lecturer in high school or primary school, you have to pay off if you are to become a teacher. How will the Council of State increase and improve the recruitment basis for teachers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e960	That is what we are doing all the time, and we expect this improved teacher training to provide a better basis, so that we are in a better position in wage negotiations as well. I don't want anything against the fact that you differentiate wages any more, even in relation to the teachers and the pay they have. So here we provide a basis for any wage negotiations in the future to lead to results that teachers deserve. As far as the University and Higher Education Council is concerned, I repeat that I have not found any documentation for the year 2014 – also by contacting them; there is nothing that is professionally presented that supports this. It's just a wish that then they'll be able to implement it. I actually think I know the institutions as well. Even though they themselves have these ambitions, I still want to say that here it's 'thinking of a number'. What we're doing is doing thoroughly and professionally in order to get better education now in the four years the teacher's education lasts, while at the same time doing our best to develop good masters and to make any five-year education also of good quality and good.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e967	The cord shift is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e970	I think it's one important perspective to bring with it, which comes a little bit in the shadow of the debate here today, and it's that in today's school we have a lot of skilled and committed teachers who every day make a great effort to ensure that Norwegian students get the best education and education possible. All in all, we have a good school in Norway, and we have a lot of good teachers. Some, including opposition politicians, have repeatedly tried to draw a picture of Norwegian school in crisis — and that we have too poor teachers. That picture doesn't match the reality of school. We have a good Norwegian school, but with some challenges. These challenges have taken government parties seriously, and we continue to take them seriously – from the increased focus on early efforts to the importance of basic skills, increased hours in primary school, more physical activity in school everyday life and a system of permanent further education of teachers, to take some examples where the Government has taken responsibility and made important steps. Today, we are dealing with a new and improved primary school teacher education, a well-worked message with several measures that will make future teachers even better equipped for the important task they have in school. Not least, it is good that the process has been so extensive and broad, and that the various institutions, the professional environments and not least the teachers themselves have been heard, and that they are largely satisfied with what is proposed. Different speakers have already been involved in what steps you now want to take, and I don't need to repeat all of that. An important grip I still want to link some comments to, is the connection between theory and practice. It is very good that the message states that there must be a stronger link between theory and practice. Didactics, learning to learn away, shall be continuous in all disciplines. It is important to have good professional competence – skills requirements contribute to it – but it is also important to have expertise in how to disseminate it to students. It's one of the teachers' most important roles, and it's good that it's a continuous feature. Many of the measures proposed by the Government are widely accepted by the Grand Duchy, and that is good. But not so surprising, the debate has been largely about the length of education, and there's going to be a bit of a strange debate. The Progress Party, the Right and the Left are trying to build up the distance between us and them. The reality is that the distance between them is probably so great when we see what they want with a fifth year. I think the sector should be happy that it is not the right side that premises for the new teacher training. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to do something about the four years we have today in teacher training. How can we make them even better? At the same time, we know that there are projects with five-year masters that we support. The message also states that the Government wants to increase the number of master’s students in teacher education. Quality assurance is also important, as well as the development of master's offerings which are needed by the institutions and which meet professional requirements. It is therefore good that the Ministry should set up a sample to look at this. The solutions of the right-hand side are a little too simple and too little thought. It must be allowed to ask the Progress Party and the Left how thoughtful their proposal for a five-year master is. Is that team in what they're proposing? I noticed that the representative Dørum did not give a clear answer to it in a line change earlier, but that it had to consult and process. And then I ask myself, how much difference is there really on the left and what the government is proposing to put down a sample that's going to look at this? The right-hand year of practice, with a ten-point task, can hardly be described as a master, but as a five-year education. Most people who want an extended education do not want a five-year education – they want a five-year master's degree. For the Workers' Party, research-based education is important for all four or five years, for those who have it, of the teacher's study. Now it's most important to do something about the four years, and then we'll meet the development of several professionally sound five-year offers later. So finally, the representative Gundersen said in a reply earlier that the message was ‘contaminated’ because of a lack of action. I'll say, on the contrary. The communication is full of measures, which have also been referred to in the debate here today. We believe that with this communication we have provided a good basis for a new and improved teacher training that is professionally sound, not just a political mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e989	The Storting message about the teacher, which deals with the teacher's education, the role and the job of the teachers, together with a number of other actions The government has recently completed, does, as I see it, three main choices that it is necessary to make. First of all, we make the choice that we say that the teacher is a number. 1, no no. 6 or No 7, not at the back of the line as one we're supposed to be, not one we're going to characterize negative, but one we're going to back up and pay what it costs to back up. That is why we have entered into the partnership GNIST, with all the different measures in it. This is why we are now implementing an old SV proposal, which is a permanent system for the further training of teachers. That's what the background is for us to implement another old SV proposal, simply to provide guidance to all new teachers when they get out of school. That's why we're doing what a lot of teachers are doing, that's why the principals have to gain more competence through an offer of their own teacher training for all the principals. That's what the background is for us to take on what's going to be a tough and long-lasting job to do, to clear up time in the school so that teachers can be teachers, and to give their teachers back to the students, and to clear up time for other tasks that others can take care of. The teacher must be able to spend more time on the core tasks. That's choice number. 1; the teacher is no. 1st@item: inlistbox Then we have to make the choice that we have to have a top quality in education. In the past, a frequent debate on teacher training has asked whether the most important thing is to strengthen the skills of teachers, or whether it is to strengthen the understanding of learning processes, the learning skills of teachers. The answer here is, we have to do both. Through this two-part division, we receive a teacher training with a greater specialisation and a larger room for in-depth training, not least in 5- to 10-year-olds. By the fact that no subject other than pedagogics and pupil knowledge is mandatory, the deep room for deepening is given, which means that we secure a great many teachers in the future with a heavy deepening in their field of study. At the same time, we introduce the new subject of pedagogics and student skills, and we have seen a strengthening of the practice and of the quality of institutions both when it comes to research and education, which will follow up education in a much better way than before. Higher demands on students, higher demands on institutions and better follow-up to the link between theory and practice. Pedagogics and learning skills are a subject that can better take care of the teaching of communication. The third option is that we have to say that recruiting teachers in the years to come becomes a main job in school and in society. It's over the year, not least from the previous government, done too little to have more places to study, to get more people to search, to get a completely different recruitment bet. We're sitting at the beginning of a problem today, as we look at it. They'll be more serious if we don't implement and follow up the measures the Government has now taken. The recruitment campaign that is now being conducted under the auspices of GNIST is one such measure. There must be not a one-time lift, but at least one three-year bet. It's like, as it's told me, that it's the biggest recruitment campaign in the public sector ever. Campaigns are good and good, but they are the material content that is most important – therefore a number of measures such as the write-off of student loans, the Lector II scheme, etc. and not least the training itself, the possibility of continuing training and the way in which the job is out of school. That's the most decisive thing about whether we can get a lot of good kids to look for the teacher training and get more people to work. In my view, there are many interesting and constructive contributions from the opposition beyond what the Government has proposed. I'll praise the opposition for that. Some of them I disagree with, and others are difficult to implement. Many of them, of course, are a bit confused, because there's an unsavory opposition between them. I do not want to put any emphasis on it, but rather say that it is very gratifying that there is a broad agreement on the important key concepts of the message.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1002	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1006	The Council of State was so far in wanting to make a statement. As the Council of State, he must deal with the policy of the Government and not the SV. Then he can talk about claims, because if he were to talk about SV's policy, requirements would not have been so very central. But let's assume that he represents the Government and is concerned about demands. In the case of five-year master's degree training or not, the training association has written the following in a consultative note to the Committee: ‘The League of Education considers that the teachers of the future in primary school need master-level skills and believes that the government has too low ambitions on behalf of teachers and school.’ Is the Council satisfied not to represent an adequate level of ambition for the future school?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1016	I am very pleased to have provided a big message about the role and training of teachers, who reform and clearly improve education, and who point towards several master students in the future and a full review of it, but not least take the necessary quality measures today. The representative Anundsen's problem and the opposition's problem is that they have no model for a five-year master. They have one thing in common, they have five in common. And then they have some different models that might meet the requirements of the NOCUT. Then the representative Anundsen himself has done almost a killing on Right's model from the speaker's chair just, where he regularly slaughtered one of the parties' models. And the representative of Dørum has confirmed that we need to have a long hearing process, and we need to discuss it over and over again. In other words, they have about the same need for a wide discussion about the way forward. The important thing now is to implement the quality concepts of four-year education and get more at the master level, as the Government proposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1023	I think there's a lot of consensus that the teacher is a number. 1st@item: inlistbox It is also good to hear that the Council of State has woken up to the fact that there is a recruitment problem in the school. We've been trying to draw attention to that for a long time. In the teacher's message, it is also about the Lektor II scheme. It was also the Council of State so far within the post. There was a slightly tragic case on TV 2 about a student who was placed on a farm one day a week, who was stopped because the farmer had no teacher training. Now I realize that the government has decided to clean it up, and that's very good. But there's a lot of evidence here that you have a bureaucracy that doesn't take over the signal that's coming in quite wide, that you also need to find new models of how to attract new skills into school. The question is then: how is the Council of States going to get bureaucracy on another track, so that it starts to be constructive in this respect?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1030	This is a very important question, I think. On the one hand, there is no point in weakening the requirements for those who are required to be trained in the field of education to have a heavy and broad competence and to be teachers through various teacher training courses. There are other important tasks, both educational and other, where they may be important contributions. There I believe the representative and I myself am quite a few. It may be in different ways outside the school, but not least the Lecturer II scheme is a good example of that. I agree. That's why we've seen it going on. That's why, as the message also says, we're now looking at opportunities for second-cycle candidates with a completely different background, who can get into a race faster than learning. This is why we also need more practical correction and provision for more students to be trained in the company. That's what we'll get back to in the competence message soon. I want to say I am very happy and positive that the representative Gundersen is busy with just the same problem.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1035	This government has stumbled into a number of debates – around hijab and blasphemi paragraphs, discussions that gradually, when they took shape, showed that there was a lack of a general competence on religion in our society. It wasn't a particularly high level. Future teachers shall meet students with all kinds of background. They're going to be in a much more multicultural society than our teachers met. Therefore, it is incomprehensible to me that the Government does not now want the RLE subject mandatory for the first time. We're going the opposite of what you do in Europe. They say it's not important. Doesn't the council realize that a teacher needs to know why milk and meat can't be mixed up for any students, that some students can't draw God, and why some students come with henna on their hands after a festival? Why is this knowledge no longer important to this government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1042	This is a good example of important knowledge in the school. That's why we're so focused now that the very basis of values on which to build the school, the knowledge of different ways of life, the understanding between people with different backgrounds, the fact that Norway was a society that is often, must be fundamental to all teachers who are going to work in the school. It is one of the foundings of the new subject of pedagogy and learning, and it must be important in all subjects. I believe that the Christian People's Party is in complete agreement. Where I think they make a mistake, when they say that this must lead to the subject RLE being mandatory. For this is the values and knowledge that must affect all teachers in the school of modern society. It cannot be removed at a certain level. The RLE subject shall be a subject of religion, life and ethics, and it shall be a subject of knowledge, a subject of development in that field. Therefore, my response to this is that the important values and concerns must be taken into account for all teachers, not just by making a particular subject mandatory.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1052	It's like this for me that when I ask the University and Higher Education Council if they can deliver a five-year master's degree in 2014, five years from now, and get the answer yes, and it gets deepened in a hearing in the committee, I base it on that. I use it for the same reason that the government actually does when it believes that the university and higher education sectors should deliver good results even if it is cut in the budgets. You trust that people can get something, and the answer was, give them that you want to, and that you make funds available. That's why my question goes on: The left wants a five-year master, and it's obvious that SV seems to be serious. I think that's a little surprising, because SV is a party like in other areas, for example. as regards the abolition in 2015 of petrol cars, there is no fear of ambition. First, I have a sense of representatives and state councils who have ambitions. But what is it that makes you afraid to have ambitions on a master degree? Because the government doesn't get any further than that point than you say you have to have a group to figure out if you're going to have it. It's this turmoil, the mistrust of the university and higher education sector that I don't think I got a good answer from Aasland State Council.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1057	There are a lot of arguments that we're going to have a great deal of future teacher training in Norway, which is a five-year integrated master's degree for everyone. I have great respect for the position of the Left when it comes to it – there is no doubt that the Left is it of the opposition party that has had the most consistent position here. But there are very good arguments against us now embarking on a major reform that will take all the attention away from the quality work that is needed in the next few years. 2014 is short-term in view of the enormous quality challenges in the sector, with the building up of the necessary skills, with the improvements in content and increased requirements that focus on the students, and with the recruitment challenges that lie ahead. If we're going to make that transition fast, there's a 1 500-2,000 coal that disappears straight into an already-pressed recruitment situation, at the top of the Left's proposal to get a lot more out of the school. I don't agree with the left-hand grip. I record in the opposition that there is internal disunity, but I respect that there is a good argument for a long-term goal here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1064	Recruitment becomes a main job for the Government, says the Council of State. I think we agree very much on that. We already see today that we have great problems recruiting and not least keeping the teachers who are in school today. So it's like the government's adding up to a whole day school, the government's adding up to fewer students per. teacher, etc. That would mean that we need more places to study. We need increased resources for the municipalities, etc. I can't see that the government's putting up so clearly to be able to achieve these goals. In fact, I want to know: what will the Council of State do in terms of financial measures in the budgets to achieve the goal of getting to a full day school, getting fewer students per. teacher, etc.?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1071	The fact that the Government is more ambitious than the Progress Party is both when it comes to introducing a new and holistic school day and getting more teachers, means that we also need to have greater ambitions about learning places in teacher training in order to reduce drop-outs and keep more of those starting school. That's why we're taking these extensive grips. We'll get the new ones to go to school and give them better support. We take quality measures in education to reduce non-response, and we have increased the number of places of study in teacher training, in PPU and in pre-school education. This is absolutely necessary. But we all have to be clear about the fact that a few more places of study are right and important today, not least in PPU, where we see it is a good search. We also see that there are rooms for several five-year-old master's degrees where there is a good search. So we add up to that. But we also have to be busy with the recruitment itself, get interested in and want to be teachers. It's the biggest defect in basic education today. Then we come back to the revised and later related to what it means in the budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1077	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to three minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1082	It is quite right that the opposition parties have different arrangements for their solutions. But at least we agree on one thing: we want to raise the ambitions of Norwegian teacher education. Government parties only agree on a small thing, and that is to keep a low level of ambition for Norwegian teacher training. I took the floor because the representative Lena Jensen said in his post that when the KRL subject became mandatory in the previous teacher training, it happened without any foundation in the environments. It is very interesting that what we have now experienced in the treatment of this message is that the educational educational communities have wanted RLE to be mandatory in teacher training, but have been overrun by the government parties. Like several others here, Lena Jensen has pointed to the need for calmness and consensus on the teacher's message. I also find it very strange that there has not been a single initiative from the government parties to achieve a broad agreement on general teacher training – or primary school teacher training, as it is now called. If the desire for peace and consensus was as strong as it is now expressed, I think it is very strange that we have had the process we have had, where all the parties have written their respective comments, and the opposition parties have written together in very many notes. The main problem with the message, in addition to what has been mentioned, is that it gives many perfectly correct descriptions, but it does not take the consequences of the descriptions it gives. It says, for example. in the message that 11,000 teachers today are in other professions. In addition, the message does not suggest any action to get any of these teachers back. The message also includes: The right has pointed out in many ways, that we have a major recruitment problem, especially in relation to the fact that many teachers are now losing their pensions. We know that 40 pst. teachers in primary school are over 50 years old, half of teachers in upper secondary school are over 50 years old, and many of them lose their pensions when they are between 55 and 60 years old. This message does not attempt to clean up. Some of the problem is that when the Stortinget has now waited so long for this message – since the fall of 2006, when it was to be launched immediately, we have done so in confidence that the reasons given by the Government have been correct, namely that there should be a complete message that would take important action. It's been the reason one waited so long. The government parties say that everyone has been so satisfied with the message, that there has been unison agreement. Well, the Education Association, which organizes almost all the teachers in this country, believes that the message is defensive. And when the RLE environments at the colleges around believe that this is a message that doesn't take into account any of the important things, namely how to get into a good religious dialogue, it's not a unison consensus. When the government parties in this ageing period have voted against a student loan write-off, no to a teacher II scheme, no to senior measures, no to recruitment plans and no to measures to get teachers back to the teaching profession, then one cannot come and blame the opposition for having a defensive policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1097	I just want to make a few brief comments. I know a very great concern for the teachers of the future and their competence to meet a multicultural society. I am particularly concerned that none of the speakers of the government parties in their speeches – only on direct questions – has mentioned the importance of RLE in the new pedagogical subject. It's just by making RLE mandatory, and available to all teachers, that all teachers get that knowledge. What is now being added is that there are educational environments that should have the primary responsibility for training in religion, life views and ethics. All credit to the educational environments, but they have nothing to do with the creed of a Hindu student. All credit to what educational environments can now do, but what about the large community of competences built on educational institutions since 1997, which can do so? Why shouldn't they be part of this anymore? This is to trick the teachers when RLE is not admitted as a modular subject or as a study score. Those who wish to take a dip in RLE will have no synergistic effect on the pedagogical subject and its as-RLE content. I'm seriously concerned about how we're going to meet the multicultural societies of the future with the scheme that is now taking place. Today's debate has shown that it's going to be just like home-school cooperation: On direct questions from the Christian People's Party, they say that yes, this is important, but you don't do anything about it. Unfortunately, the government has left. Let me briefly say two more things. One is a general concern that I believe the whole Storting must address: What about the practically strong students, the practical-esthetic subjects – linking practice and theory closer together? We have a formidable challenge to get into the Norwegian school that all students should know the sense of mastery. So I'm also concerned that the mentoring/guidance system that really the whole Storting, but especially the Government, is now adding up, comes as an additional task. I believe that this needs to be put within firm, structural grips, where both the mentor and the person to be covered by the mentoring system are released in the form of a reduced educational obligation in order to achieve this. That would give you a good solution. It would have said that it was not an extra task, but that the Government and Stortinget believe that this is so important that we dare to put money in the pot for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1112	There has been a good deal – and I have done it – of the points where there is a similarity between the government parties and the opposition. I'm not going to remove it. I think it's important. But it's really true that there's a disagreement between, for example, Left and government parties in the case of a five-year master's degree course. It is that when the Left wants to fight for something, we do it the same way we fight for something in other areas of policy. Now I'm not going to ask either State Council Solhjell or State Council Aasland to outsource their departments to the Left – that's not the way it's going, that's the way you decide such a relationship – but I think we know so much that we know what it takes to get to something, when we first want something. And to that: SV has a significant will in important parts of environmental policy. Left's happy. It's almost a paradox that you shouldn't have it, because the only thing in the big message that comes close to an ambition for a five-year master's degree is that there's a sample that, among other things, is that. shall ‘determine and, where appropriate, when’. So the Council of State went a step further than its own document and the comments of its own government parties, saying, once in the future. When is it in the future? We are a country that is applying for the World Cup and the Olympics, SV adopts programme entries for 2015 – but a master’s degree, no that should not be. And then you try to make fun of the fact that the opposition is working. Consultations are common in Norway — unless one wants to follow a command principle that is not appropriate in our state practice — and it is common for one to learn through hearings. But there's a sketch in the document, and that sketch tells you in which direction you want to go. The Trade Union Committee has had serious consultations with the University and Higher Education Council, and they answer what they want. And when you wonder if someone is dissatisfied, the local government's Central Association, the student organisations, the student organisations – those who wear the shoe – will answer that they want a different ambition, to set a course. Since 2015, we have lived in Norway for quite a long time because it is more than usual that more than half of the birthplaces have higher education than basic education. Our teachers should then be equipped with such a weak ambition to cope! To me, it's incredible. Where is it that the main part goes to get something else? Well, between the Government and the Left, for example, there's a problem. on the will to invest in continuous obligatory training. The left will have an obligatory continuing education for all teachers in all subjects at regular intervals, and we don't have to caricate in how to do it. We're practical people, and we know how to do it. The government has an ambition that will take 32 years to pursue further education for teachers. The second difference is that the Left wants the professional requirements to apply not only to new teachers, but also to those teachers who are in school today. You can't send a stronger signal to the teachers who are there than to those we want to recruit into all kinds of teacher training – than to make professional demands and then say that society takes the cost of continuing training to build up on these requirements. That's where the difference lies. And if you look at the program in the future, it's in the will to prioritize the heads first, and then the difference in the handles will also make you believe in the ambitions. It was necessary to say this, for there is a struggle for ambition, and the SV and the Government have weaker ambitions than the Left. It is a fact of school policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1125	We have high ambitions on behalf of the school. To achieve those ambitions, we have to have the right means. That's why we've spent time, and that's why we've been thorough and systematic, because that's exactly how we get a teacher training that keeps a high level of quality. We are not flinching, as the honourable Member has said in this debate. On the other hand, it is the Right and the opposition parties that have systematically strangled throughout the period by making individual proposals in the hall. I can't help but draw a little on the smiling band when the Right Representative mentions the municipal economy – and poor municipal economy – as an argument. I guess it's not exactly a people's demand that the Right should once again come into government and govern the local economy here in the country. There's not much to boast about, but we actually have a lot to boast about: we've strengthened the local economy by over 30 billion dollars over these four years, and we're going to continue that line. The Christian People's Party wants a broader settlement, and that may be a reasonable wish. But then the Christian party should first of all look at the Right Party, the Left Party and the Advance Party, because in the bourgeois camp there is much more. As I record it, the Christian People's Party more agrees with us – the red-green – than with the others in the bourgeois camp. So maybe you should clean up the civil side before attacking the government in that way. So to my top score. New teacher training is good, but it's actually not enough. We record that the status of the teacher is low in Norway. That means that we, as politicians, have a special responsibility also in terms of status. We can do a lot through new education, yes, but we also have to talk nice about the school and the teachers. We need to talk about school and teachers, not talk them down. And when the head of the church, education and research committee here at Stortinget calls the school a nursery, it's talking the school and the teachers down. When the Progress Party Bureau, as I mentioned in a previous line today, talks about the teacher having a blank mandate to destroy people's future, it's talking the school and the teachers down. So I hope at least that we can agree across politics that it should end that kind of argument. Now we talk the school and the teachers up – then we get a good school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1136	The representative de Ruiter says that the red-green government has high ambitions. Well, where has it become of them? The ambitions of this message are not so high. If you were to set a really high level of ambition, you would have done what everyone wants, that is, to have a master's degree of five years for teachers as well. What happens instead is you try to shoot around by saying that on the civil side it has to be cleaned up. I do not know whether the representative of the Ruits and other speakers who have pointed out this point are aware that there are four different parties, on the civil side, which have no duty or normal desire for concrete coordination. We're not in government together. We don't have those obligations. And yet – without sitting and negotiating – there is quite a lot of consensus on the non-socialist side, and that would have been seen if you had read the attitude that is being treated today. So there's no need to clean up the civil side. If you're going to have some political cooperation after the election, the distance is less on the non-socialist side than it was between the present government parties. So I think you should first keep track of your own. I have to say I am disappointed that the government parties say that at some point in the future it may be that, etc., but that in 2014 it is completely impossible to complete a master's degree course. But the Socialist Left Party, as the representative of Dørum pointed out earlier today, has decided to ban petrol cars in 2015. I have to say that I think it's a very unrealistic starting point, and I could imagine seeing the professional foundation for this. So you're ambitious! There's a target! But when it comes to the future of our children and what kind of education they're going to get, you don't set a goal, and then 2014 is too early. It doesn't really matter, and I have to say I'm disappointed that you're not more able to find the good solutions in the long term and fill in the process that's now. What we're facing right now is a government that says we're going to make some master's degree courses, and then we're going to put down a group to see if that makes sense. Everyone, except the Government, says it makes sense. We don't have to wait any longer to figure out if that makes sense. So let's agree that that's what we're going to do, and then we're going to fill in how the arrangement finally gets through a proper process. There is no one in this big business who says that we should not have a good process until a master's degree course. Everyone agrees that we need to have a proper and tidy and good process, and so we trust the University and Higher Education Council to know what they're talking about when they say that it's possible to do this in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1143	There was something Anna Ljunggren said that made me take a three-minute post – and there were a couple of others who pushed on the same tune. She said that when she went to school, she had an excellent teacher who was strict and set clear boundaries. That kind of teacher I think we all remember, and we know how important it is for teachers to get the security that you dare to set limits. We've been through this with the practice. There are many who have been involved today, and I am amazed that you do not take it so seriously that you will look at the Right's proposal for a year of practice. I think getting a safe practice before you have to stand all alone in the classroom is very important. But then the representative continued to say that the right-hand side black paints the school, and that we partly lack confidence in the teachers. There are also several people who have crept on, and I think that is a hopeless premise and a rather low level of debate. Then we can just pair back that the school now has no entry requirements for teacher training for many, many years, and that was a strong downgrading of what having a level of knowledge, a level of competence, actually means. And there is not exactly a good story for the government parties, since they also voted against the introduction of the knowledge requirements when the Knowledge promise came. Besides, there's a lot of evidence that you're not completely briefing yourself in reality, because Monday morning had just an article about this, and it says: ‘Only one of three lecturers would re-elect the teaching profession. Lecturers warn against choosing their own profession. The longer they have worked in school, the less willing they are to recommend students to choose the same path of life." Is it that you think it's the right side that stands and creates that kind of attitude on the part of the teachers themselves? This is a very fundamental challenge in how we can raise the status of the teaching profession, and how we can get a completely different attitude to being a teacher, and how important that job is to society. And then we can't do that – customs is probably an unparliamentary concept, as far as I've heard, but I can say something pretty close by. Being a teacher is a very important job. It's a hard job. It's a leadership job in a large community of many different individuals. That's the role we're going to train people for, and then I just have to repeat that I miss the level of ambition in the message that exists. Especially since it has taken two and a half years to get it out, based on a pretty thorough NOCUT evaluation, I would have thought it would take more steps.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1159	The representative Dørum has presented the view of the Left in an excellent way in this setting. But as a representative of Finnmark, I would like to link some comments to the Sami teacher training and to the teacher training at the Finnish University of Finland. A key task for Sami teacher training is to care for, disseminate and develop the Sami languages, Sami culture and traditional knowledge and to train teachers and pre-school teachers in line with that. But the search for Sami teacher training is unfortunately very low, and it is obvious that it is a major challenge to recruit enough Sami language teachers for Sami and Norwegian kindergartens and schools. I am therefore pleased that the majority sees the seriousness of the situation and believes that it is important to have targeted recruitment measures to ensure a sufficient number of qualified Sami language teachers. It is positive that the Ministry will implement measures to identify the recruitment basis for Sámi higher education, assess an extended debt forgiveness scheme and link parts of the newly submitted continuing training strategy with continuing training in the same way for teachers. In connection with the latter, I have great faith that the three colleges responsible for training teachers in Sami languages, namely the Sami College, the Bodø College and the Nord-Trøndelag College, will be able to further develop good and attractive offers. The left also supports the delegation of the possibility of establishing a framework/samian teacher training sympathetic training within the framework of national regulations to the Sami College, because it is the environment at the Sami College which, in our opinion, is of the best competence in this respect. Finally, I would like to say a few words about teacher training at the Finnish University of Finland. Teacher training is very important for our region. For higher education, a relatively small peripheral teacher education, it is obvious that it is important to facilitate the coordination and organisation of the new training courses across the main strands. I am also pleased that the Committee makes it clear that, in order to introduce an activity requirement for teacher training, it is important that this is determined on the basis of completed study credits, where both initial and continuing training are seen together. Substantial provision of further training at each institution will also ensure the breadth, relevance and vital professional environments. In addition, cooperation with other Nordic teacher education institutions is very important for the Finnish Higher Education College, and I am pleased that the Committee notes that work sharing between institutions will become increasingly important in the future. That is obviously true, but I would also like to remind you that cooperation between institutions that are geographically very distant from each other can provide few economies of scale in some contexts. I therefore hope that the Ministry will take this into account in the further work on the implementation of the new teacher training.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1176	The problem here is not a lack of ambition. The problem here is that many in the opposition did not carry out the necessary steps when they themselves had power, but today it seems exciting to create illusions about what one can do that is completely unrealistic. Let me first deal with the new teacher education, which is a comprehensive reform to which there is broad support. Many of the grips could have been executed before. It's e.g. proposed by SV i Stortinget a systematic re-introduction of mentors. The proposal was not made in the previous period, but there is now broad agreement to split the education into two runs. It is a comprehensive quality reform that, together with the improvements in the content of the institutions that we propose, will be extremely important in the years to come in order to improve teacher education. In another field, on the other hand, I think we have to go a lot deeper into the problems that could be created especially if we were to follow up the Left Party and the representative of Dørum here. It's about recruitment. The proposal for a year of competence every seven years, which the Left now has, is the last mentioned in connection with the presentation of the message. It is a proposal that would lead to more than 5,000 teachers in addition to the coal we would lose with the Left's policy because of a five-year education quickly being taken out of school – well over 5,000 teachers in a situation where according to the statistics now there are more vacant positions in the school than there are unemployed teachers! Everyone knows that there is a completely unimplementable policy if we are concerned that students should have competent teachers. It will take the teachers from the students. That's also why there was no year of competence when the Left itself had power. There was not even a day of competence for the students in the school. That's what the challenge is now. We need to start the systematic training lift that we are doing, at a rate that the recruitment situation in the school tolerates. It's a good ideal, which we're all a lot of people about, that all teachers should have professional competence in their subjects. But let's also imagine that we dragged out to a school and told you that no, you've been working at school for 30 years and taught in physical or music or mathematics or whatever it should be, but we see from the papers here that you don't have 30 or 60 credits in your profession, so to be qualified to teach, you first have to have it. I think there might be quite a number of people who would wonder if we had heard the word «real competence», if we understood that having worked for many years in spite of everything gives a good deal of experience. It's a good ideal, but now we have to start with the new teachers, set skills requirements, and then we have to carry out the further training, which we've got in place for the first time, at the pace that the recruitment process can take.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1189	There has been an exciting debate and a debate with nerves, and that is quite fine, I think there is political disagreement. What is important to me is to emphasise the professional ambition of the Government in this matter. Ambitration can obviously be measured in many ways. The opposition measures it in terms of quantity, we measure it in terms of quality. What's the main argument for the main direction we're going into in terms of the length of education is that that's what's professionally sound. It is not that everyone wants a five-year master, but the government actually adds to the message – in addition to having good arguments to strengthen the qualitative content of a four-year education, which is too weak and too weak today – that, in addition to all the schemes that you already have at the master level, you get 800 new master degrees. The reason why it takes time to figure out what we want to have master education in is that the masters who are are are not well adapted to the childhood and youth stage today. Those taking master’s education today, whether it is five-year-old integrated, PPU in addition to what they may already have, or experience-based masters for teachers at general school institutions, often take a master’s degree adapted to secondary school. It's great, it's good and good, we'd like to have more people deepening on a high level, as a master's degree is, but what's most important, and as we know, is that the challenge and the problem in primary school today, the content weaknesses we see, are not being solved by adding another year. It is not the additional year that solves the problems, it is to go into qualitative and to get both better organised and integrated practice training, and not least to take into account the process that state universities and, let me say, universities are also facing in terms of future teacher training. There was talk about the Finnish Academy here. It's one of the colleges we think it's important to maintain, and it's important to have a good teacher training there. But we know that both this and other colleges are vulnerable in terms of size, in terms of recruitment, and then we have to bring in good processes for example. division of labour and cooperation. We have a good process with our colleges and universities, and I am convinced that teacher training, as it happens with today's decisions, will be a test of good cooperation between universities and colleges. I am absolutely sure that we will receive a professionally sound and good education with a continuing four-year teacher training as the main device, but with many new, exciting offers at the master level.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1202	Today, a majority proposal is being put forward and voted on in the Storting. This Decision is important because the majority of the Committee asks the Government to return to the United Kingdom with a status of the recruitment challenges associated with Sami teacher training and measures to ensure recruitment. It's worrying, the development that has been in the recruitment of Sami teachers, and it's important to get these numbers up, because it means the development of language, culture and identity. The representative, Eriksen, said in his speech that government parties are not involved in school-home cooperation. This provokes a lot. If the representative listened to my post, school-home cooperation was one of the very first important things I raised. We have strengthened the appropriations for FUG. We've backed up on FUG. We've got a new purpose paragraph in primary school, in primary education, where parents are central. If you look back at the last government period, the civil government proposed to lay down the FUG, drop the parental committee for the initial training, but this prevented us. I'm very busy not playing with numbers, but getting into reality. It's important that we have a teacher training, and we get a teacher training now, which has clear requirements, and that we take important action. We're continuing the tightened recording requirements that you've had in the past, but we're not strengthening them. We could say it's a parallel to university education in teacher education. There they do not have characterisation requirements and there are several higher grades applying for them. So the recording requirements are not critical to getting a good quality and getting the candidate numbers up. We're also introducing a compulsory bachelor's degree project that brings about a professional didactic. We're setting up national research schools. We strengthen teacher training in very many areas, both in terms of guidance from the student in practice and guidance after the student has finished. We were also criticized because we haven't been involved in the multicultural. The new pedagogical subject will address these elements – that students are different, they come from different cultures and have different backgrounds. This is one of the important elements, which I also had in mind in my introduction, to ensure that all teachers should have this competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1216	I'm not going to take the past for myself, but I'm going to leave it with great joy to my party trap Trine Skei Grande, who was sitting on the Stortinget then. Let me just say that the Left prioritised the promise of knowledge at a time when the SV had still not left behind the things that the Council of State Solhjell has left behind today, and that I will not quote him from the election program he has chosen, because he has left it behind. Then to the debate today, because that is where we are going to be. Then I want to say that when the government presents what is in the four-year education, they do some important steps. I've said that before, and I repeat that, and when the left thinks about the master degree, we're based on this. What becomes the big difference – and where I have not intended to let go of the state council – is about further education, where SV now suddenly delivers. No, it doesn't. You start delivering something. You deliver something like in 2011, if you're very kind, you're going to give 2,500 teachers a year this opportunity. If we have 2,500 teachers this year, with 80,000 teachers in Norwegian school, it'll be 32 years. It'll be like this, not because teachers are missing. SV is good at operating with teachers who don't exist, they. When they're going to make a growth reform, etc., they're going to be there all of a sudden. But let's think practical. If you go over to five years, you're going to have to get rid of a coal all of a sudden. Yes, but there are thousands of teachers out there who don't work at school today. Would it be a powerful signal to the thousands of teachers out there if we said that if you are in school, you will receive systematic further training at regular intervals, in a practical way that we tackle – one semester? This is clearly a strong signal. It's a state-of-the-art signal. It's a handshake for the teachers who work at school today. Of course, we should not act with professional requirements in such a way that we do not recognise real competence. Real skills can be fully recognised. We're going to be smart people in life, based on what we have, but it can't be wrong to have ambitions to increase competence. Therefore, in the case of continuing training, there is a real distinction. SV has taken over Left's rhetoric, but not Left's monetary priority. It's the priority of the crowns that make policy differences. That's what determines what you're going to deliver. You have to do the most important things first. And the left puts further education first, in front of a number of other measures. We have been completely consistent on this, as well as recruitment, seniority and the focus on basic education, which is the topic today. We have been completely consistent in our priorities, just as we have been consistent in putting research effort first. SV is a party that does not have three priorities in relation to the Left, but they have 50 priorities. It is more difficult to deliver on 50 priorities than on three. It's one of the fundamental differences in real policy: the rhetoric is approaching, but the actions are not parallel. Then I have to say at the end: there are several of us who now, fortunately, know what it means not just to adopt resolutions but to implement policies. Therefore, I would like to say to both representatives of the government parties that you should treat some of us as knowing what it means to implement politics, and not just to adopt a resolution, so that you can see that when we have ambitions, we have both ambitions and knowledge about what is going on in order for the resolution to become a policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1233	The council has made an article here that was a history description which, in relation to the previous period, had to be viewed most of all through SV glasses from SV's office. In the last period, a promise of knowledge was made here in this room. The left had one errand in government to influence the promise of knowledge, and it was getting a binding plan of continuing education for teachers. It was our delivery in the Knowledge promise, that was our priority. The Council of States should be very pleased about this, for the money that was put into the promise of knowledge he has been writing with for all years. If the Swedish government did not have the money that was put into the Knowledge promise to borrow, it is not much that this government could have boasted about continuing education, because there have been no new priorities since that. So it was actually our delivery in the Knowledge promise to get to that promise. Then we've been sold out of government offices. But what we've got and gone around and delivered in the local communities where we actually have power, where we actually have the opportunity to influence the budgets, is obliging continuing education programmes and a level of competence for teachers. So that the Council of State might claim that this is something we have just discovered, and that the Council of State may claim that this is something we have never been concerned about before, should make him look at this reality not through SV glasses from SV's party office, but he should actually want to read the minutes from this room. Because this has always been our priority. The most important thing, says Left, is to have ambitions on behalf of teachers and ambitions on behalf of students – and that's what this is about, it's about stretching to knowledge, it's about a desire to get something – is actually to give priority to this field. It's more important than the other things you went to the elections. SV went to choice on two things. It was spaghetti, and it was more for freshies. That is what should ensure good education for all students in Norwegian school. We've always had the same priority. We want good teachers who are safe teachers, teachers you can respect in the classroom, teachers you have respect for both your behaviour and your knowledge. The claim that this priority has been different in the past must indicate that there is a somewhat delicate relationship with the way priorities have been. We can refer to in the budget by budget how we have prioritised. We've held the same line. It was our delivery on the promise of knowledge, that was our task. And anyone who knows how the Left put and negotiated there knows that it was our priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1250	The representative Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide has spoken twice and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1253	I react very strongly to the description of the history of the government council Board Vegar Solhjell, because while the previous government made the promise of knowledge, SV's representatives in the committee were most concerned that the promise of knowledge could lead to children risking learning the multiplication table at school. While we were conducting a new teacher training from 2003, SV was most concerned that the teacher training was not to be evaluated, and they were concerned that there should be no admission requirements for the general teacher training. While SV sat and was busy with completely different things, such as school food and SFO, we were busy getting in place an obligating race for continuing education for teachers. We put in almost 400 million. kr annually. It was a historical lift of competence for the teachers. That's what the government council should be happy and grateful for, because he's been able to build on it in the government. Instead, there is now a sudden debate about the other parties as well as just playing politics, while the SV and the parties in government are now, as well as the practitioners of politics. I react very strongly to such a kind of history description. You have to be so clear that you can indicate that the other parties have done in government before you, and that has worked well, should be quite clear as a sign of what the other parties have been doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1258	It's just respect for Odd Einar Dørum's seven years of the last twelve years of government that makes me take up the relationship between producing resolutions, bringing politics and implementing things. For SV, in 2002, the Stortinget proposed a permanent, mandatory escalation plan to strengthen continuing training. It is very good that there was more further training in connection with the Knowledge Lift, but it is now a permanent system. I repeat my question, which it is important to get an answer. The left's proposal involves 6,000 to 7 000 students each year out of school in a situation where we lack teachers, where we don't have too many of them. Something that was in the vicinity of an answer was that several of those who are teachers and do not work in school should come back again. That's about. 11,000 of them. Should the majority of them go back to school in a few years? Can we do that? No, I think we have to be so honest as to say that it is not possible to implement a scheme that takes well over 5,000 students out of school every year. On the other hand, we should be able to gather on what we have now for the first time, simply a permanent system of further education that will provide – as was correctly said here – approx. 2 000 to 2 500 teachers each year. It could be more in the long term if we get to a better recruitment. The problem today is not that there is too little money for it. The problem is that we'll probably have a lot of problems getting many of them to continue training because there are no qualified temporary workers out in Skule-Noreg. We must have the extensive recruitment effort that is now. Then we have to start what the government has done, a permanent further education, but we have to do it at a pace that makes the students in Norway actually have qualified teachers to teach them. Then I have to do two words about the priority that the left does. They're right to spend more money on the further education of their teachers. Where do they take the money from? Yes, they cut the government proposal for more students' s dorms. They cut students into more physical activity. They cut the reduction in the nursery price that is important in order to enable the maximum number of children to go to kindergarten and provide a better basis for learning. They cut out free teaching material in secondary schools, and they cut out the order of fruit and greenery. So they cut into all of the things that improve students in school to get more people to learn more, which is probably not the basis for now, because we simply lack enough teachers. That's the problem. Finally, what is important here is that there is a deal between the broad grips that are taken, both in teacher training, in continuing training and in mentoring. So let's get together about the big grips, have a discussion about the points that are uneasy and move on with the enormously important improvement of teacher education that we are now receiving.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1269	Lena Jensen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1272	First, I just want to make it clear that it is incredibly important that we have a broad consensus on large parts of the teacher education that is going to be adopted today. It is important, because the measures promoted by the Government are comprehensive and demanding. They want us to spend a lot of resources and a lot of time on teacher training in the years to come. Eriksen Soreide has referred several times to SV voting against and was negative to an overall NOCUT evaluation of teacher training. The reason SV was negative at the time was that we had just received an evaluation from the Norwegian Web Council. That evaluation pointed out a lot of the things that the NOCUT evaluation is now saying. We had it on the table when the previous teacher education was adopted. Among other things, SV proposed because of the new pedagogical subject that we are adopting today, but which was proposed in 2002. We also proposed a follow-up of offers to all students after finishing education, which is not happening today. But I am happy that we did not get through, because otherwise SV would not have implemented its policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1279	State Council Solhjell and I know what it means to fight for crowns in competition with others. I then, after speaking from the representative of Skei Grande, find that the Council of State is in practice pleased that it was being fought through a knowledge gap in the government that was set before 2005, and that 400 million. kr of it was for the purpose of continuing training. Governments have turned it into further education. It's praiseworthy and positive. The practical disagreement is about how far we're going to go. I walk, like the Council of State, around Norwegian schools. There are a lot of teachers who are taking part in further education today. They'll pay for it themselves. And they find practical adaptations in many ways that I'm not going to use the Storting Chair to go through. But that's the way we have to take advantage of the practical knowledge that people have, which enables us to deliver ambitions beyond 2,500 teachers a year in further education. Where the Left sits with influence, as the Schei Grande denominator, e.g. in Oslo, it is decided to carry out a teacher's vow with systematic further training for all teachers in the Oslo School. It's going to be phased in in a practical way. The difference here is that the Government's ambition is 2,500 teachers and not more. The left has a higher ambition and it commits to the heads. To the list that the Council of State went through: Yes, it costs something if you prioritize as follows: fresh construction – it is the Council of State and I fully agree, I am sure – and many enough and good teachers. Then you have to put the money in the cost of recruiting teachers – whether it's through senior measures, teacher II schemes, systematic further training or basic training. This is called priority. When you give priority to politics, you have to put the most important thing first, and then you get it done. And that's a wonderful thing: our neighboring country, Sweden, is now implementing a system where over three years 30 000 teachers in Swedish school are going through a systemic further education in a practical way because they see it as absolutely necessary. And what happens in Sweden? Well, people get engaged to get it done. And that's the way it is in politics. If you give priority first, responsible organisations and everyone else come up with solutions and discuss how to do it. So it's no harder than that. But I think I have to sharpen it again: the left, which has been a small party – and which is a slightly larger party – but which has taken responsibility in government, learned to count to three when we went into a government. When you count to three – public transport, research and teachers – there is a certain chance of getting to public transport, research and teachers. That means there's a lot of other things you can't do. But if you go into a government and count both spaghetti, hours and everything that SV does, it becomes difficult to prioritize, and then even a real government council trying to do their job will have problems by having to take the spaghetti in relation to the priorities. That's a political difference. I am simply elected on a programme where the priorities are clear. That's why I can also have the strength that I have when I agitate and argue for this in Stortinget. Then I have to say in the end: SV has ambitions to get rid of petrol cars in 2015 – it is a reasonable ambition to pass a master's degree in general teacher training in 2014.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1294	Dagrun Eriksen has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1297	SV dresses incredibly bad to be in a majority and to have government power. They call the opposition’s proposal – and we have heard it throughout this period – individual proposals, impossible to implement, standing by themselves, and then in the next round they are willing enough to refer to their own proposals that they promoted before they came into government. This is not a matter of concern. In addition, I would just like to say to the representative Lena Jensen, who is trying to present it as if the Christian People's Party has not been able to rely on home-school cooperation: then she has to do the homework again. In order to refer to the purpose paragraph as a symbol that this government takes home-school cooperation seriously, it is not correct to make history. It was the Stortinget who took responsibility for getting parental cooperation back into the purpose section after proposals were submitted for a purpose paragraph where this was completely gone. I believe that the history subject should be further strengthened in the school in the future, especially where SV's future representatives will be present.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1304	This counter-to-three method is new to me, I will honestly admit that. I record that the representative Dørum came with two other fields – and then to the teachers. But then it's probably the problem, if one's going to pick up what I said instead, that one stops before one comes to the elephant. What the left actually does is cut into several fields that are important for students in school, to finance more for the further training of teachers. I repeat: they cut the hours to the students in subjects such as Norwegian, math and English, cut the physical activity of the students, cut the pieces of fruit and green to the students, cut the vows of continuing school, learner, and go against reducing the price of kindergartens. So it's the funding — and the students have to do it — to ensure that one, quite correctly, adds more to the further training of teachers. The problem with further education now is to get room to get a lot of people to take it initially. It is true, as the representative Dørum says, that many teachers in Norway are taking continuing training today. At the top of it, we suggest a government investment that can give 2,000 to 2,500 possibilities for this from the beginning – maybe more eventually if we get the chance to do that. So the problem is not that there is too little money, but that in many places in Norway it will be very difficult to get qualified temporary workers. We already see in school today, not least here in Oslo, that a hard time getting qualified teachers to fixed settings, not least to temporary settings. We have to take that seriously. That is why we must give priority to a massive recruitment effort while at the same time implementing a further training lift at the pace we are tolerating. What I believe – and the priority one has to do – is that knowledge is the very basis of future value creation and well-being. Then one must be willing to prioritize a whole set of actions within it. Teachers shall be no. 1 – that is the most important priority within the school, and that is why we are implementing a new teacher training and more further training. But we can't fund it by cutting for hours and physical activity and other important things in school. The students are the whole human being who will learn more in several hours in the field, and who need to be more active, where fruit and green are a popular and important measure, for which several of the opposition parties here have voted. That's what separates us. We don't have to cut important things off for the students to finance this. We are able to prepare with further education, recruitment bets, several hours more physical activity and free learning material in further education.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1312	I have been in a situation where the Council of State attacked me after all my speaking time was exhausted, but now I have speaking time. Then I just want to say the following: I think the Council of State Solhjell has to learn the following lessons: prioritizing means that something is put first. SV is a party that wants a big growth reform, it's the ambitions of the program – and you want to have it with teachers, who don't exist. In addition, he wants to try to settle the bill for the left, and then I get the answer on behalf of the left. The left has two priorities, and the student organisations also have two priorities: to have fresh buildings. We've got back an interest compensation scheme for school construction, that's fine. The left will have many and good enough teachers. It's absolutely vital for a good school. The reason why we are so strong on this priority, as we are on research, is that we believe that the fate of the Norwegian public general school is determined over the next four to five years, in the sense that the quality that develops in school is essential for us to remain a country where an overwhelming majority, regardless of social background, sends their kids to that school. We know that the option is not the private schools that SV will prohibit, but it is the private schools that people will pay to send the children to. So the effort to keep the enormous good that lies in a public common school, which is a meeting place, is just to give priority to the most important thing, namely the teachers and the buildings. So it has some consequences. It's not like we cut in existing hours in physical labor. We cut this off in relation to what was in the government's supplementary proposal, but at the same time we added money to non-profit organisations and others who are doing excellent actions, including: at the schools' premises. The left has always been completely honest and open about that instead of having more hours, we'll spend the money recruiting more teachers. Politics is about prioritizing. At this moment, I will conclude with one of my favorite quotations, Olof Palme’s famous sentence: ‘Politics is to want to.’ I want to say as Leftman: ‘It’s also to choose’ – ‘will’ and ‘choice’. It's a priority, and there's a confrontation between party cultures in the Left and SV. It's all right that it's presented in full transparency in the staging room.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1325	It is funny to hear the debate between SV and Left on how to prioritise, but that was not what made me take the floor. There has been a discussion of physical activity in connection with teacher training. I thought it was the teacher training we were going to discuss. The way SV has introduced the offer of physical activity is a good example of either lowering the content and competence requirements or weakening the level of freedom of municipalities, so that most average municipalities in Norway now have a deficit in their operating budget. So two hours of physical activity and 48 million. kr to it. The calculation from KS is that it really costs three or four times if you want to have quality in the offer – just to get the debate a little bit more down on the ground compared to, among other things. priority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1332	I agree that the Left has definitely shown the ability and the will to prioritize. It's just so sad that they deprioritize the students in a proposal I don't think can be implemented at the level proposed when it comes to further education. I repeat, I think it's a big mistake. For students and children need to learn through several hours, have more physical activity, get free learning material, go more to kindergarten, etc. Let me finish this little round by saying that what I have a lot of respect for is that the left is a game with a lot of commitment to the teachers. I think what we're now getting through this learning message is a lot of big grip that's been discussing over time, but that hasn't been implemented. The main thing is that we share the teacher's education in two races in order to have a greater chance of deepening and specializing. If it's a broad term. The next thing is that we get to do what we've been proposing for a long time, that's an expanded pedagogical and learning profession, which provides a better basis for the teachers, both as exchangers and trade brokers. The fact that we are now receiving a continuing training scheme that is permanent, in the first round, based on what came in the Knowledge Lift attached to the reform, is very good. And that we get a mentoring system for newcomers, I think will mean a lot too much to the possibility of preventing the drop-out in the first year of school. There's things that there's a big deal about here. That's the big picture in the message about the teachers we're dealing with today. There is a debate not only between Mr Dørum and myself, but there is a broad consensus in the opposition on the proposals put forward by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1339	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Fotation, see page 2619]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1355	The first speaker was Mr Aksenssen, who has the floor on behalf of the rapporteur, Mr Bjørnstad.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1358	Unfortunately, as the President says correctly, the spokesman for the matter is not present. I'd like to say a few words on his behalf. There is no doubt that Iceland is one of the countries that has become the most heavily affected by the international financial crisis. They have a very difficult economic situation in Iceland, and this has led to a reorientation in several areas. Among other things, the debate on EU membership and euro cooperation has been exacerbated. In winter I visited Iceland twice, with a few weeks' space. In those weeks, there were dramatic changes in Icelandic policy. Several parties had held extraordinary national meetings and replaced the rental. The government had resigned and printed new options. None of these things were foreseen just a few weeks before. Today, Icelandic policies are very unstable, even more Icelandic parties have had extraordinary national meetings with major changes in the lease. Iceland today has an interim government, and a new option stands for the door. The conclusions of the various political parties vary greatly on the measurements. The same is true of the emergence of a possible Icelandic EU membership. In other words, there is a great deal that is undecided in Iceland and in Icelandic politics. It is therefore very difficult today to lead the development of Iceland in the future. This applies in general, but it also applies to the issue of possible Icelandic EU membership. So today we don't know if Iceland is going to apply to join the EU. But we can't rule out that that's what's going to happen. I therefore found it wise for the Government to inform by letter to the Committee that one will follow developments in Iceland closely, that one will keep the Stortinges informed about developments and that an assessment of possible consequences for Norway will be started if Iceland decides to apply for membership of the EU. I am pleased that the approach adopted by the Government in this matter has been widely welcomed by the Committee — and by the European Parliament.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1371	In the wake of Iceland’s deep economic crisis, there has been a debate on Icelandic EU membership. I believe it is understandable that Icelanders see a need to both strengthen their economy and in the long term exchange their strongly weakened currency with the euro. Our point as proposers is that it may have dramatic consequences for Norway. EEA experts such as Professor Per Christiansen at the University of Tromsø and senior researcher Ulf Sverdrup at ARENA have pointed out that the EEA Agreement could hardly survive in its present form if Iceland were to enter the EU. The reason is that institutions no longer have the necessary credibility as monitoring bodies if only Norway and Liechtenstein are to be monitored again. One can imagine that changes will then have to be made to maintain the EEA structure, for example: transferring responsibility for monitoring to EU bodies. However, it was rejected when the EEA Agreement was concluded because it could conflict with the Norwegian Constitution. These are among the areas for which we believe membership may have consequences, and for which it would have been important for Norwegian opinion, Norwegian political life, to take over and debate. The fisheries sector may also be affected by any Icelandic EU membership, as the dynamics of quota negotiations change, the strength of Iceland's situation increases considerably and the connectivity capacity will increase. The idea of meeting an Icelandic fisheries commissioner or an Icelandic negotiator — with the whole EU at its back — is not obvious to many Norwegian fishermen and fishing organisations, who have been in such negotiations and who know how important this can be. A completely different problem is that the competitive situation of Norwegian fishery products will be exacerbated. Today, customs duties on both Norwegian and Icelandic products are being paid to the EU at varying levels. As an EU member, Iceland will also have duty-free access for fish to the EU market. Central organisations, such as the Fiskarlag and the Fiskarbooderbund, have expressed concerns about the impact of an Icelandic EU membership on the Norwegian fisheries sector. I believe that these are serious problems that we should be prepared for – no matter what we may think about the European Union. I believe that when the majority of people today do not want to launch an investigation, it is not possible to prepare Norway for the adaptations and scope of action we have, given a possible future situation – not primarily on the EU issue, but on the issue of our fisheries, trade relations, relations with the EU. I believe that the Stortinget today commits a sin of omission that we may pay dearly for later. We need to consider the consequences of an Icelandic EU application. I think that both the Stortinget and the Norwegian people should have the opportunity to debate this thoroughly and balancedly, with the information that only the Government can provide as a basis for the discussion, rather than a ‘vision’ discussion, where we all ‘popper’ up with different opinions, which have not been evaluated, and which are not necessarily based on the foremost expertise in international law. That is why we have proposed that the Government submit an urgent investigation to the Storting – simply because what the Storing is doing today is stabbing its head in the sand. What should be done was to get these questions and issues up on the table, discuss them and not let the EU fear that is raging this government be what actually prevents us from making real, wise decisions and good discussions about conditions. This weekend, the Social Democrats and the Independence Party in Iceland held their national meetings in advance of the April 25 elections. The head of the Social Democrats, Johanna Sigurdardottir, announced that she would like to apply for membership of the EU as soon as possible after the elections. The Green-Left Party and the Independence Party have also opened up to send an EU application. In other words, an Icelandic EU membership can come quickly. Everything also suggests that Icelanders want rapid negotiations on membership. This makes it particularly important that we follow developments here in Norway and think about what this will mean for us. I have no excessive belief that there will be any Icelandic suction that will make Norway a member of the European Union, but I think we have a responsibility to discuss it if our main form of association with the European Union, the EEA Agreement, is in a difficult situation and can come under pressure. I am not the leading EEA member in this room. I am actually against the EEA Agreement, in that I would rather have EU membership. However, it should worry all those who have thought that the future link to the EU should be the EEA, that the EEA is now on its way to confusion. That is why you should have done something other than what you are doing today, namely that, for reasons of convenience, you put our proposal in the drawer. I think evolution makes it important that we have a rational situation. Norwegian fishing industry should also have a good basis for an informed and good debate, based on how it is believed that the strategic conditions surrounding Norwegian fisheries will develop given an Icelandic EU membership. I just want to say that I am quite disappointed with the other parties' attitude to our proposal. It is a proposal to investigate something, acquire knowledge to have an open, honest and honest debate, and use the body that in this country actually has the obligation to investigate on behalf of society, namely the Norwegian government and the civil service. It is not that we have other major investigative agencies in Norway. It is the government's responsibility to ensure that the Norwegian people are informed about the things that are happening around, about the consequences of different changes around us, and to ensure that we have a good, balanced background to make these decisions. I am surprised that only the Right is going to vote for this proposal today. I would have thought that there was a desire for information, knowledge and an open and honest discussion about what the consequences of an Icelandic EU membership could be – even in more parties than in the Right. Parties that regard the EEA as the best EU link for Norway should be particularly concerned with ensuring the survival of the agreement, and it will be precisely those parties that are concerned about how best to ensure which strategies we should have. In the Question Time of 19 November 2008, the Prime Minister said that the EEA Agreement is ‘a good agreement for political Norway’ and that ‘we shall take good care of it’. Anyone who has been involved in a Norwegian EU fight can understand the desire to avoid political unrest around the EEA Agreement. However, when this desire leads to a lack of ability or willingness to take on the developments that could weaken the EEA Agreement, I believe that there is a danger and that is dangerous. By not being prepared for an Icelandic membership, there is a risk of weakening Norwegian action spaces, weakening the Norwegian debate on EU issues, weakening the basis for Norwegian fisheries, and thus helping us to be less well equipped for a debate that can bring with it to Norway. This is done for the sake of convenience. I really think that people in this room today should be sorry about that. We want to take that debate. We see that this debate does not necessarily lead to EU membership for Norway – I have ambitions that the Icelandic suction will have the effect – but I honestly and sincerely believe that the Storting should today have manned down to say that we have come so far in this country that we dare to look at the challenges in our relationship with the EU, without being afraid that there will be a debate either on EU membership or on the EEA Agreement. Illustrative knowledge and competence should not be feared by anyone in Norway and in Norwegian parties, but they are obvious today. I'll take up right hand suggestions in the setting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1409	The representative Erna Solberg has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1412	I will first be allowed to say that I agree with the statement made by the President-in-Office. I really didn't mean to say that much, but some of the things that Solberg's representative addresses, I don't think I can stop commenting. It was said that the other parties – i.e. all except the Right – ‘do not have the ability or the will to take over the developments’ that one sees. I think this is a very strong claim that I, at least for my own party, do not feel at home, and I would think that the other parties do not feel at home in that claim either. It's about taking things in the order that's natural. As the representative of Solberg refers to, it is a violent and active debate in Iceland. It goes a little in wave valleys, but it is possible that it has the outcome that Solberg's representative refers to, that there is an Icelandic application. And I have understood it this way – the Foreign Minister can probably comment later on this – that Norway is following this actively, and that when it does, it will take the necessary steps to ensure that Norway is in the best position, also to ensure that the EEA Agreement is respected. And for the Progress Party, our EEA Agreement is anchored to Europe, to the European Union, and it is important. We don't tend to try to make things very convenient for the government, if that's not true, and that's not the reason this time either. We dare to challenge the Government, if required. Here we believe that the conduct of the Government, government parties and the other two non-socialist parties is the tidy conduct, and that is why we choose this procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1423	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1426	I assume that Morten Höglund to the same extent as I know that the day an Icelandic membership application is on the table, the debate is going to take place in Norway. What are the benefits of not having investigated this before that Member's request is on the table? Are we going to investigate the situation about this after the membership request has arrived at the table, and wait for our top office to answer these questions after the debate in Norway has been going on for a few months?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1431	The EEA Agreement is known. The treaty work that is there in relation to Iceland's entry is well known. All of these things are known. First of all, this is about politics, about what political choices we want to make as a possible consequence of what Iceland is doing. Yeah, let's look at the legal stuff. Yeah, let's look at the formal one. But this isn't just a question of law and law; it's a question of where we'll sit in the political landscape. We have recorded that many years ago the Right has made a clear choice in this way, and we have respect for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1438	My question was about the benefits of the fact that when the debate takes off after an Iceland membership request, we do not have an investigation into the consequences of this, but come up with it a few months later, when the political debate in Norway has paused for a while. What benefits are there for the public debate in Norway that we do not have a good knowledge base until that debate really takes off?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1443	I and Solberg's representative probably have a slightly different view of what such an investigation will give of decisive answers. I do not think the solution for Norway is there. We may be able to answer some important questions – but the important questions may not be known until we have seen the negotiations between Iceland and the EU, and after that process we will also run in parallel with the EU on the consequences of the EEA Agreement. These are questions that cannot only be addressed on the Norwegian side. These responses must be addressed in a dialogue between Norway and Iceland and the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1451	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1454	It is generally commendable that the Right is concerned with Norway’s relationship with other countries. But unfortunately, this proposal for a representative is going to be wrong in a number of ways. Firstly, the situation in Iceland is so serious that the most important thing now is to show solidarity, not to try to drag this into a Norwegian EU debate, into a Norwegian context. Iceland's banking crisis is the largest, relative, ever experienced by any country, according to the IMF. According to the OECD, Iceland’s banks had accumulated a debt almost ten times greater than the annual output of goods and services in the country by mid-2008. The country's going to have a hard time paying off this debt for many years. It is not surprising that many Icelanders are now looking towards the EU and the euro at a time when the Icelandic krona has lost confidence. However, there is reason to warn against believing that the EU and the euro will resolve Iceland’s economic crisis. One thing is that possible EU and euro membership is well ahead of time. Iceland must first become an EU member and then fulfil the so-called Maastricht criteria for euro membership. These criteria include, inter alia: the country's inflation, interest rate, budget deficit and debt must be at a relatively low level. Last, but not least, the Icelandic krona must have a price trend close to the euro over a period of two years. This is, to put it mildly, not easy when you're in the middle of a historical deep, economic crisis. However, the main problem with this euro strategy as a solution to Iceland's problems is that it will not work. The Economist wrote already on 13 November that calling the euro a refuge for the storm, not only is economic nonsense, it makes little political sense since no one is going to be shielded from this flood. So let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, let's say, In the wake of the crisis, these countries felt that the common level of interest rates in the euro zone was so low that it helped to strengthen the situation in all countries. Now unemployment in these countries is rising sharply, and it does not contribute positively to the euro being so strong that it weakens the competitiveness of enterprises exporting to countries outside the euro zone. It is also very uncertain whether Iceland will join the EU. When the representative proposal was promoted, the polls on Iceland showed a majority of EU membership – but now the wind has turned. Now it's about 54 pst. of the population against the EU, while around 46 pst. is for. When the representative proposal was promoted, the yes side tried to make it appear that all Icelandic parties would now be in favour of EU membership. But still two of them are opposed to such membership. However, if Iceland were to become an EU member, there is little to suggest that it would have dramatic consequences for Norway. The EEA Agreement is dynamic and related to changes. Although some institutional conditions will change, the agreement will be as stable as it is now — even without Iceland. In the case of fisheries, there is massive EU resistance in the Icelandic fishing industry. There is probably more reason to fear what will happen to Icelandic fisheries resources if Iceland becomes an EU member than what will happen to Norwegian fisheries. As we know, EU fisheries policy is not sustainable, unlike what we have based our policies on. The Christian People's Party is therefore satisfied that the Government ensures that it follows the situation in Iceland closely, and that it will keep informing the Storting in the light of developments. That is why we will support the inclusion of the present proposal in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1471	The case concerns a proposal from the representatives of Erna Solberg, Inge Wohnning and Elisabeth Aspaker for an urgent investigation. So, on the right, it seems that one on the Norwegian side should urgently assess the consequences of an Icelandic EU application. The central party is very satisfied with the answer from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs that one is following developments and does not see the need to address the matter now. It is therefore also very gratifying that all parties, with the exception of the parties of the proposers, are behind a common position where one does not support the proposal. Some comments on the situation: The situation in Iceland is extremely difficult. The economic situation affects the degrees of discussion. One goes from an ‘all-hour high’ development and situation to deep difficulties that even cause Icelanders to be afraid that they may lose an entire generation of young people through emigration. It's no wonder you're looking for firm points in the economic development of the country. However, the worst hallelujarop in relation to the EU has now been slowed down, and there is a very unstable opinion with strong swings. In Iceland, there is little common knowledge of what membership of the European Union will mean, and therefore there is a very immature debate. It is important, then, that a person should have time to discuss in a sober and realistic way what will be the consequences of a Union membership for Iceland. On the Norwegian side, a number of attempts have been made to underpin the efforts of the Icelandic Government, various governments, to stabilise the situation. The centre party has been very pleased with it, and hopes that one can continue it if necessary, so that at least one can develop the good spirit and culture between Iceland and Norway. Opinion polls in Iceland show that there is no country that has greater confidence than Norway in the challenges facing it. It is a declaration of trust that we must take good care of. It is today a majority to start negotiations, but that majority, and the majority parties, make great demands on the outcome before they will vote in favour. Already today is over 45 pst. in opinion polls, opponents of membership. For example, Vomsoknarklodurin in Iceland, which is in favour of an application and is one of the supporting parties to the two government parties, inter alia. full availability of fishing resources, securing Iceland's agricultural production and a clear right of re-disclosure. New elections will be held on 25 April, and the Greens and Social Democrats, i.e. the Interim Government, have already submitted proposals for changes to the Constitution. These include: that constitutional changes may be adopted without any intermediate choice, i.e.: An opener for Iceland to enter the EU without intermediate elections, cf. the Norwegian debate. It is also said – and it is very interesting and crucial – that legislative changes are introduced in which the state is prohibited from permanently renouncing natural resources owned by the nation. In the EU, the situation is that there are different signals. Both the leader of Germany, Merkel, and the leader of France, Sarkozy, have said that the EU should not make other enlargements during the current financial crisis, while the EU enlargement Commissioner, Olli Rehn, and the Nordic countries, welcomed Iceland. There are claims in the document that the fisheries sector can be affected. Yes, no one can disagree that it can be affected. It does not say "will" or "become", but "can" is affected. Furthermore, it states that it can be affected by changing the dynamics of the quota negotiations. Today there are bilateral negotiations between Norway and Iceland, Norway and the EU, Norway and Russia, Norway and the Faeroe Islands, etc. In any Icelandic EU membership, the EU will be involved in Iceland's fishing interests. That's obvious. Furthermore, Iceland will have its percentage of what the EU gets, while becoming a common EU sea, and there will be no derogation for Iceland. This is why the EU's fisheries constitution is in sharp conflict with the general Icelandic policy, namely full rights over Icelandic fishing resources. Therefore, it is not a bad prediction of the future that there will hardly be any Icelandic membership. In the case of any Icelandic membership, if one takes it as a premise, it is clear that Iceland will lose a direct negotiating agreement with Norway – a negotiation agreement that in its time gave Iceland a quota of 10 000 tonnes of Norwegian-Arctic cod, the so-called sluthole stork, about 10 years ago – as one of the consequences. Furthermore, the proposal states that the competitive situation of Norwegian fish products will deteriorate. Today’s competitive situation is such that Iceland has a preference for the EU, a preference, so that there is almost zero customs duty on a wide range of products. It is also the case that Norway has preferential customs duties, and the proposal here relating to fish products and exports will have marginal consequences for yes or no in the case of membership. Therefore, we are very pleased that there are parallel views in the Storting today, with the exception of the Right. There is no need to make an urgent investigation at this point in time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1499	I appreciate our broad support for the approach adopted by the Government and supported by the majority of the Committee. I agree with many of the assessments made by the representative Solberg about the issue of Icelandic membership. You can discuss many aspects of it, its consequences for the conditions in the Nordic countries, the EEA Agreement, etc. Let me, on behalf of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, thank you for the great confidence in our investigation capacity, and I fully agree with that. In this respect, I would like to say that the ongoing assessments we make of the situation in Iceland, in itself, are a capacity to carry out that investigation at short notice. As for the capacity we have in the EEA-legislative areas of the ministry and in the Brussels delegation – we are actually experts in the EEA, there are not so many of them – I think that in a short time we are going to turn to give the picture we need, if the situation arises. But I think what's the swinging question here is when you might start doing something like this. I notice that the representative Solberg refers to my party party which is in favour of EU membership. I could refer to her party trap that goes against. It says a little bit about the situation in Iceland and the fuzzy picture that's there. Otherwise, I would like to say to the argument of the representative of Solberg that we are doing this for the sake of convenience: I will distance myself from that, if she thinks that we find it uncomfortable to address that kind of question. It's probably more based on respect for the use of state resources, and accuracy in that regard, that we don't start an investigation that we don't think is necessary, because the question is not raised. There are a number of demanding issues in the EU today, which could have been interesting to learn: the outcome of the Treaty of Lisbon – what happens if it is not ratified? What happens when an EU country, for example: becomes bankrupt, withdraws from paying ability – Hungary and the Baltic States? These types of issues are very important, and they could all have had interesting investigations associated with them. What I want to say around the EEA is that it is up to everyone who is always in government responsibility for Norway to take good care of that agreement until we may have something else. I'm putting a lot of emphasis on that. If the situation arises from the opening of a realistic, likely scenario, that one of the parties is going out, we must work intently to take care of the EEA Agreement as a good alternative for us. I think it's actually so that if we had started today a thorough investigation of an Icelandic membership before Iceland once decided to apply, there could have been a significant input into Iceland's debate, which I think the Icelanders could recover in the situation they are now in. I sum up by saying that we follow the matter continuously and carefully. I think the embassy reports we have from Iceland are among the best that are from any country that is represented in Iceland. We all have party contacts with the Icelandic political environment – we can do it. And of course, we also think about the EEA Agreement and are ready to work out what is needed, the day it is needed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1514	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1517	Many of the statements made earlier have basically been about whether Iceland should become an EU member or not. It is not a question of this proposal. These are: If Iceland becomes an EU member, what are the consequences for Norwegian interests? I think that is actually the responsibility of Norwegian politicians to think through. The Council of State has just implemented a major project to discuss Norwegian interests in an international and new world – a project that has led to a wholesale notification. But now something is happening in our neighbouring country, which is a participant in our main relationship with the EEA, and which has a significant proximity to decisions and areas directly affected by Norwegian interests – a lot of what has been part of the large project initiated by the Council of State. Then I am a little surprised that you do not have the capacity to do this – what is closest, what is most important, so you do not have the time and capacity to figure out now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1524	We have time, we have capacity, and we have the full opportunity to do that. However, that notification also emphasises that Norway should be able to prioritise and use the resources where they are most needed. The only thing the Icelandic government, which has an EU-friendly Prime Minister, will do on the EU side before the elections is to present a report on the EU, which the previous government had already adopted. And it's very unclear what a new government constellation, on the other side of the election, will decide for. Then it's too early to rush forward such an investigation now, before we have seen what the elections bring, what the Icelandic government decides, and what the government is going to do. So I say again: At the time when it is likely and realistic that Iceland will become a member of the EU, which requires them to apply and negotiate to become a member, Norway will be able to live and be fully capable of taking care of both its own elections and what we may have to do with the institutions we are part of today. But there's no need to start it today, per. ==References==
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1533	I must allow myself to say that I disagree. I believe that in the Norwegian political debate there would have been a need to create a professional basis for this. After having heard more articles here, it is obvious that there would have been a need to talk about how fisheries negotiations work in such a context — how they might be. I also believe that there is an underestimation of the anxiety in parts of the coastal population in Norway, which needs to think clearly about the future if it becomes an Icelandic membership – one underestimates it and will not do so now – plus that this debate will come in day one in Norway after a membership request. It will consolidate attitudes. And then we choose not to have a professional basis for making those assessments, because the government won't give priority to that. I just want to say that I'm disappointed in it. I think close interests, the EEA Agreement and fisheries had earned more in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1540	I think we just have to live with that here is the different view between the Right and all the others. I repeat that I respect the underlying motives and arguments that Erna Solberg uses. It is important to have an ongoing debate on it. I would assume that we should also discuss the EEA Agreement as it works, experience, etc. into the next major period of time. – make suggestions from different teams and take it in order and in the right order. But I can't say more than that we're going to follow the case on an ongoing basis. We have the capacity to conduct the investigations requested by Stortinget when necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1547	Several have not asked for the word for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1551	The backbone of this debate is, to a large extent, the financial crisis, which is a shadow over most of the time, and which will have major consequences, mainly economic, but I believe that it will also have political consequences. Which and in what way is too early to say, but I also think there will be unexpected political consequences in view of different countries' relations with each other. Iceland may be the first country where it happened. The EU debate speeded up after what happened in the autumn, making it particularly interesting for Norway, of course, since Iceland is one of three EEA countries. Liechtenstein is the second, and we're the third. Moreover, Iceland is a Nordic colleague, with whom we naturally feel solidarity. The reason I am now taking the floor is that last week I attended an EEA/EFTA parliamentary meeting in Strasbourg. It was also marked by the financial crisis. That's why there was a slightly different meeting than usual. From Iceland it was as far as there were any present. It was a parliamentarian who came one day. The other days the seats were empty. Norway provided full delegation. From Liechtenstein it was a newly elected parliamentarian who came and defended himself with beaks and claws against the attack they felt from especially the Germans on tax havens and so on. The financial crisis has also affected the kind of regimes and nations that have been hiding places for people who want to avoid taxes. Switzerland was also impressed by that. It was once again updated that Switzerland’s relationship with the EU is characterised by a strong progress in negotiations directly with the EU, including in the field of drugs. in the case of Schengen, which makes the situation of Switzerland different from that of a few years ago. This underlines that this is a very fragile situation, in which the EEA Agreement is also. It is very difficult to predict, and therefore it is the wrong time to make such an investigation, I believe, like the setting. The EEA is the best we have so far, and it must be protected, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs said. An additional information, which we also received in Strasbourg, is that Andorra knocks on the door of the EEA and wants to be a member, because they want to enter the internal market, and the EEA is the only option they have. The Faroe Islands became an observer. And there are other small countries that can hardly be called countries, but perhaps in practice are cities or small territories in Europe, which look at the EEA as a kind of port of refuge. In other words, the EEA is changing even more in character, compared to what was meant many years ago, when the EFTA countries were many, where they were much larger, and where they entered into the EEA Agreement with the EU. The sum of this is that we now know too little about what's going to happen, and we know very little about what's going on in Iceland. We should therefore await an investigation. The representative of Eriksen said that the EEA Agreement is dynamic. I don't think it's dynamic. The EU, on the other hand, is dynamic. The result is that the EEA Agreement must adapt and do what the dynamic EU does at all times. Therefore, I would say that it is a strong exaggeration to call the EEA Agreement dynamic. In a comment to the representative Lundtigen on fishing interests in Iceland, it may well be an exaggeration to call the fishing resources ‘the property of the nation’, because in many ways it is the same people who have now taken over Iceland through the banks, who are also heavily liberalised the fishing industry in Iceland, which means that it is owned by a few people and is not ‘the nation’s own’. That's how I see it. The EEA Agreement ensures stability in our economic approach to the EU, and I think that is very good. We still have to make sure of that. But I notice in this debate that it turns out that the view of what is happening in Iceland is influenced by what you think of the European Union. The whole background, which has not been seen by so many in the debate in Iceland, is that they have problems with the Icelandic currency. It's their big headache and something all have in common in Iceland, whether you're for or against the EU. What has happened in the last six months has probably trained the population in many ways — in the sense that there are hardly any on this planet who know more about the impact of unstable currency and exchange rate fluctuations on both home and home. This is something the Icelanders are very concerned about. If they choose not to join the EU, they must have a different solution to that particular problem. The time is wrong to investigate this, and therefore it is good that the majority of Storting concludes that such an investigation is not in place now. But I think we'll see soon that need comes, but we have to wait for the situation in Iceland.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1579	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 2621]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1597	Today it is 18 days for the UN World Conference on Racism, Racial Discrimination, Xenophobia and Intolerance to begin in Geneva. In three weeks we will know the outcome of the conference. It is not that this conference differs so much from other UN conferences. The theme is important. But it should not only be controversial, because racism must be combated. It's important. Nevertheless, this conference has almost had its own life, both as an arena and a symbol of a struggle for value – a struggle for the content of parts of the human rights regime, especially linked to freedom of expression. Why is the Right so concerned with this question? We see that the nation-states are already stronger than the individuals on the issue of fundamental rights. Human rights are precisely about providing protection from arbitrary and excessive State intervention in the lives and innermost sphere of individuals. For that very reason, the Right wishes to develop the international human rights regime towards more and more protection of individuals at the expense of repressive state powers, hidden behind concepts such as state sovereignty, relativisation of concepts of rights, and reference to vague collective rights of groups. In the last few years, we've been in a positive development. We have seen a strengthening of universal human rights. Out of the 1990s' humanitarian disasters, state sovereignty was weakened by competition with world society's responsibilities or obligations to protect the civilian population, including against its own authorities. It was an important advance. Not later than one month ago, the Stortinget debated ‘the responsibility to protect’ — the right to life and protection from physical abuse, including where the international community must intervene within the sovereignty of a country. That's why it's extra unfortunate that we've seen in the last few years a development in which the international human rights regime not only risks staying at rest on the ground, but where it's systematically put under pressure and reinterpreted in other areas, to the detriment of the fundamental rights of individuals, of freedom of expression and too many people's right to participate in democracy, but to the benefit of the states and forces that want to suppress it. Today, then, we see that the arena for this battle is particularly important in value matters. So we know, and have heard many times, that the Foreign Minister believes in dialogue. He makes that clear in most contexts. The main point — Norway must engage in the institutions that exist, and if we do not participate, our voice will never be heard — often repeated. We in the Right are not opponents of talking to people, states or forces that do not share our views or values. On the contrary, we believe that it is in the break between opinions and through the force of the good argument that new ideas win. But dialogue only for the sake of dialogue, on the premises of actors who partly have a diametrically different approach to value issues, inevitably raises a number of dilemmas. Our disagreement with the Minister for Foreign Affairs on these issues is that he has been less willing to problem the dilemmas of the dialogue line. We've seen the need to travel some of these difficult dilemmas, for example. the negative development of parts of the work on human rights of the United Nations. In St.meld. No 15 for 2008-2009, the Minister of Foreign Affairs writes that nothing can replace the legitimacy of the UN and its various institutions and processes giving rise to work on human rights. That's how we're used to the world. However, through this approach, the Foreign Minister and the Government have little relation to the institutions and processes that are intended to protect human rights or protect people from, for example, human rights. racism and hate, now in itself risks becoming a threat. Last week, we saw that the Human Rights Council took decisions to combat atrocities, so-called “deflection” of religions – a difficult theme! Yes, we should not discriminate against individuals. Individuals shall not experience persecution because of their faith. It's important rights. But it is also dangerous if it is drawn so far that the veneration of a religion is drawn to criticism of that religion, and gives a new room for interpretation. It is far from what must be acceptable to Norway. It shows that that agenda has not yet been put to death, and that it is going to pop up again and again. The Geneva Conference on Racism has been discussed in this Chamber in the past. The conference has an important objective, and it is to gain a strong and clear position against racism and discrimination. But at times it has become totally in the shadow of the attempt at anti-semitism and undermining human rights. It was particularly clear in a previous draft communication: 66 pages containing such a nature that, among other things. The United States stated that it could not be saved, and chose to withdraw from the preparations for the conference. There are now new drafts, including: a significantly shorter and clearer document dated 17 March. The draft was presented by Russia and is reportedly drawn up in cooperation with Belgium, Egypt and Norway. It is therefore sold internationally as a Norwegian-supported initiative. Much of this is a positive development. In the new draft, there are direct, explicit references to the prohibition of religious criticism and press censorship, and the excessive unilateral condemnation of Israel has now been removed from the previous documents. Language usage is down. On the surface, this document may appear to be an unproblematic document. I have registered that the Minister for Foreign Affairs has now said that he is satisfied with what is there. But the situation is not entirely unproblematic anyway. Firstly, we need to ask ourselves some questions about the process further. Will the draft meet the demands of further preparations or of the conference itself? Will those countries that have so far wanted to impose their own agenda now withdraw in silence? And will you be able to get those countries that have so far jumped off back to the negotiating table? Then, too, in the proposal that has been put forward, you see the danger when you start to read the text more thoroughly. A number of critics have pointed out that individual points in the 17th March draft could be interpreted as maintaining restrictions on freedom of expression. In particular, Article 11 of this draft, prohibiting opinions on race, religion or nationality which lead to violence, conflict or discrimination. This statement is blatant and can be misused, for example. by prohibiting statements which lead to riots or violence by those who feel that they have been taken. Then we're really back to the starting point. And so this is sold in some bodies as a Norwegian initiative. So that means that we should have banned cartoons in Norway because there are riots in Pakistan or the Middle East. There is a basis for interpreting this paragraph. It does not have the support of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, and I have no faith that he has the rest of the Storting's support for it. That's why something has to be done about it. I am concerned that this is being interpreted in other countries as a Norwegian-supported proposal. It's not because we have failed to believe in our own values that we have chosen to point out these dilemmas that are being raised. Nor is it because we doubt that the Minister for Foreign Affairs considers these values important that an overall opposition has asked questions about the strategy you have chosen. It's rather because we're genuinely concerned about the evolution we're seeing. It is not my intention to polemise against our participation in the Geneva Conference, but it is my intention to have this interpellation clarified by the Minister of Foreign Affairs where Norwegian borders go. I mean, for example. that the Norwegian border should go through the fact that we cannot join Article 11 as it now exists, because it can provide a basis for people to believe that if others demonstrate against opinions made by others, there is a basis for limiting the opinions they are required to make. Finally, there must be limits to Norwegian compromise. I am a little afraid that we have now put ourselves in a situation where we have been involved in a draft that contributes to a development that the Government does not, at least, have the support of the Right to contribute to. There are limits to Norwegian compromise, and I would like to hear the borders of the Council of State. For, as Groucho Marx once said, these are my principles. If you don't like them, I have someone else. It is not my position that this is Norwegian policy. There are also limits to what we are willing to compromise on about freedom of expression and human rights.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1629	In three weeks' time, the United Nations Follow-up Conference on Racism will be held in Geneva. There will be an important test of the ability and willingness of world society to gather on clear positions against racism and on the ability of Member States to focus on what the conference will be about, namely racism, and not on a number of other issues. It is the Government's clear wish that the UN and the participating countries pass this test. Norway has therefore made a clear and strong commitment to the success of the conference. Just in the time we now live in, we need the mobilisation of common will, not stronger expressions of polarization and we-and-the-other thinking. We need more clarity about international standards and rules on human rights and freedom of expression, not dilution, restriction or attempts to weaken the universal validity of rights. As always, in the request of such a negotiation process, the texts are focused and the issues of conflict are different. We're now in this query. Norway has entered into negotiations on the final document with five main objectives. Firstly, we want a strong and clear text against racism. We are working to ensure that the conference focuses on the fight against racism and the responsibility of states for the implementation of the Durban final document in 2001, and not on new initiatives. Such a clear indication is at least as necessary in 2009 as in 2001. Secondly, as a consequence, Norway cannot accept a language that calls for the prohibition of so-called violations of religion, which has been mentioned by some other countries. This is one of the most controversial issues and has marked much of the work on preparing for the audit conference. Norwegian position is clear on this point. It's people and not religions that have human rights rights. It's people who in vulnerable situations need protection, not religions. It is the freedom of expression to promote criticism of gods and religions. Thirdly, Norway cannot accept a language that weakens its freedom of expression as defined in the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, Articles 19 and 20. This Convention has more than 155 acceding States and has been followed up by regional human rights instruments. Freedom of expression is one of the most central human rights. Without it, we cannot reveal human rights violations – and we can add: without freedom of expression, nor any freedom of religion. Fourthly, we want a text on the role of the media in relation to racism based on the balanced text of the Durban Declaration of 2001. While recognising the positive role of the media, it expresses concern that in some cases the media can contribute to racism. Fifthly, Norway has worked intently to remove all references to the Middle East conflict contained in the previous draft final document in recent months. In 2001, Norway contributed to the text adopted on the Middle East at the conference in Durban. The Middle East question was difficult, the time that now. In my view, the text in 2001 was fairly balanced. This time we have worked for a text which is generally valid worldwide and which does not highlight one geographically limited conflict or issue. Our minimum requirement is that a final document does not go beyond the 2001 carefully negotiated text, which Norway has signed. In order to secure these objectives, we have committed ourselves. We haven't threatened to draw at every crossroad. It's not Norway's tradition. We've drawn on our solid multilateral experience, and we've played across the entire width of the contact network Norway has been working on. We have close dialogue with close allied countries, to which Solberg refers, also with those who have threatened to withdraw repeatedly in the last year. But our ambition goes further. We talk to all countries to help keep the focus on racism. Today's task is to establish trust and contacts across old dividing lines, not least when it comes to defending established and universal rights. Let me say a few words about how we've worked. Norway was elected as a member of the Agency to the Preparatory Committee in 2007. The Agency consists of 20 members, where Norway, Belgium, Greece and Turkey are representatives of the West Group. The work of the Agency is managed by Libya and is responsible for procedural issues related to the preparation of the conference. The substantive negotiations on the final document, on the other hand, are outside the mandate of the Agency. Norway has also actively engaged in the negotiations on the final document. In the last year, we have initiated two regional meeting places and informal consultations to provide the basis for compromise proposals on the content of the final document. This active role led to Norway being asked at the beginning of March to assist the Russian negotiator in revising the draft final document – a text that was then very controversial and on 350 paragraphs, a text that aroused much legitimate attention and which is certainly the basis of Solberg’s legitimate interpellation here today. Under the direction of Russian diplomat Yuri Boychenko, a group of diplomats from Norway, Belgium and Egypt prepared a revised final document, which was presented on 17 March. The document has been well received by the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights, Pillay, by a number of states and groups of states and, most recently, by the UN Secretary-General in a conversation I had with him on Monday. Equally important, organisations for freedom of expression, such as Article 19, have given praise and support to the proposal. But we're not yet in the goal. The road is still open to new text proposals, so we keep our attention focused. And I have not, contrary to the representative Solberg suggested, given an assessment of this document before we see the final document finally negotiated. Equally full: As the document now exists, I believe that our objectives are reasonably well respected. Like the EU and our close allies, we believe that the text provides a good basis for the final negotiations. But let me say – as I underlined in my foreign policy statement in February, and as the representative quotes in his interpellation – that Norway does not sign a document in advance. It's always an option not to sign and not to miss, but it's not an option we take before we see the final result. And so our ambition is to make our contribution to the final one. Solberg refers to the 2001 Israeli rage. It is true that negative and even gross anti-Semitic statements were promoted in Durban. But it may be appropriate to recall that this happened mainly outside the conference, in the so-called NGO forum that was organised at the edge of the conference. Norway as a country did not participate in this forum. In Norwegian debate, the impression is that this year’s conference is a follow-up to the NGO Forum in 2001, but this is wrong. The UN High Commissioner for Human Rights stated in December that wrong information was deliberately sent from groups wishing to turn the conference's focus away from racism and the Middle East conflict. In her question, Solberg mentions two countries that she thinks we should adapt, the United States and Canada. We notice their vision, we have good and open contact with them, but they are not the most relevant examples for us. None of these two countries signed the final document after the World Conference on Racism in 2001. Neither did Israel, who also withdrew from the conference. But we signed. It also did so in Denmark, Sweden, Finland, the United Kingdom and all other European countries, all African countries, all Asian countries and all Arab countries. Of all the countries of the world, there were three countries that moved in 2001, Israel, Canada and the United States. In 2009, only these three countries have signed up. Italy has confirmed that they are still there, after some confusion. The United States, among other things, drew. on the grounds that they did not wish to make reference to the 2001 final document, which they thus never signed. We don't want to, but we can't, with the reasons of the United States, because we actually signed the document in 2001. Not only did we write a fan, we committed ourselves to following up the fight against racism at home. We have. In 2002, when Solberg’s representative was the municipal minister, the Bondevik government presented Norway’s concrete follow-up to the Durban Conference with our National Action Plan against Racism. The 2001 World Conference and the 2009 Conference of Supervisors are UN conferences. As a UN member, we have a responsibility to participate. We committed ourselves in 2001 to follow up on what was adopted. Although it stormed around the conference at the time, as it is now, the action plan in various countries showed that the conference was worth following up. Norway has always been a multicultural society. In addition to the Sami and the Nordics, national minorities such as women, forest fins, romanists and Jews have lived in Norway in the last few centuries. Racism goes as a dark one also follows through our history. At the same time, in 2009 Norway differs in many ways from the Norwegian community as it was 20 or 30 years ago. Immigrant population has increased from 3 pst. to 8-10 pst. in the last 20 years. Norwegian society also faces new challenges in terms of racism and discrimination. The national action plan, which includes indigenous peoples, national minorities and people with a migrant background, shall be followed further. A successful outcome of the Geneva conference gives us a new impetus to focus on and anchor this important work. The representative asked me a question about individual formulations in the text of 17 March. We shall carefully evaluate these wordings forward towards the end of the request in three weeks. But the assessment we have made with the help of the law department so far suggests that the formulations that are now in place are within the lines of and in line with the international conventions Norway and the vast majority of countries in the world have already concluded. We therefore believe that we have a good starting point for the final negotiations, but it is important to note that proposals can also be made in the interview. The fight against racism has not been won. That is why this conference is important, and that is why we are engaged. Instead of threatening to fail, we show that we want to participate, influence and take joint responsibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1673	I accept my joint responsibility for the follow-up work of Durban II and for action plans against racism and new laws against ethnic and religious discrimination in Norway and much more, because I believe that the part of what is going to happen at the Durban II Conference is important. It is important to have a strong and clear position in the international world, but also in each country in the fight against racism. The Durban I Conference was largely a discussion on antisemitism, and the argument was linked to the description of relations in Israel between Jews and Palestinians and other. So what's new about Durban II is this attempt to reinterpret human rights and create new concepts into them, which we see systematically working for, to limit the individual's rights in relation to state and religion. There are two articles in this document. One is Article 11. Article 11 can be read with no concern whatsoever. So it could be -- and sometimes you can see -- that some of the people who read it read it, read it with glasses that make you read more into it than we want. Sometimes we feel that such articles are being turned around. The fact that you have to have restrictions and bans on calling for violence is absolutely right. But it is possible to read this article in the opposite way, too, that if the reactions to something done become violent, there should be grounds for restriction. I just hope that we make sure that it's not an interpretation of, and vice versa. The second is a principle introduced later, such as: a new requirement for laws in Norway, namely Article 97, which obliges us to impose a legal ban on organisations based on ideas and theories of racial superiority or for some ethnic groups. Norway has never chosen this as an approach to how we deal with these issues. We have not chosen the law. We've chosen openness. We have chosen to have the attitude that we can discuss the question in the open room. But we do not use the law to ban some types of organizations and others. I'm not so square in the question of whether we're going to ban laws if this is a limited area, but I'm just saying that there are many issues related to this that are going to be difficult. My main challenge to the Minister for Foreign Affairs is: Can we now be sure that Norway does not sign anything, or can we go into a situation where, for example, we, perhaps the main theme, contribute to the criticism of religion, the critique of ethnicity and activity, which can lead to normal freedom of expression being able to meet with restrictions and interpretations of international conventions? Then we're going the wrong way on the human rights trail.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1688	I think I've answered the last question: The answer to that is yes, we're going to work to counteract that going in that direction. I believe that the representative of Solberg is getting away with the constant references that have come to the conclusion that Norway should now be absent. Should Norway participate? Should we retire? If we had withdrawn before Christmas, I think the text that is here now would look different. This is the result of the influence you have by participating in the world, in the United Nations. The representative of Solberg said in his in-depth question that she is to participate in the international arena. Well, what's the price is that you meet opinions that can be contradictory. The document that is now here, I believe, shows that not only Norway, but also diplomats from Egypt, Belgium and Russia and a large number of others have achieved a good result. So, as the representative says, Article 11 is being read today under international conventions. She fears that it can be read in another way. Well, this is the case with most of the legal texts and statements. Now, this is not the Norwegian law, and Article 97, to which the representative refers, states the Calls Upon States, which a lawyer is not legally binding if he is afraid of the text as such. But I believe that in the controversial time we live in, with this question of religions or people, I have been very clear in my speech that there are people who should protect human rights, not religions, and that freedom of expression is crucial not only as a fundamental right but also for freedom of religion, and also to expose violations of human rights. It's well taken care of. It is therefore true that we have gone through thoroughly — and will continue to do so — how these texts relate to our own criminal law, for example. Paragraph 135(a), which is a paragraph on protection against racial discrimination. It was adjusted, intensified, in this decade in the light of the obligations we were reminded of from the Human Rights Court. This shows that in our legislation we are also dynamic. Therefore, it is our opinion that these Articles, 11, 66 and 67, do not say anything other than what we have already committed ourselves to after the human rights declarations. So these are political statements, no less important than that. But the killing of Benjamin Hermansen illustrated in our everyday lives that we have this with hateful remarks and the way to violence as something very, very close, and we need to focus on that. Otherwise, I would like to say that although I – I must say – react to this means of action «let us withdraw», because I think it is a bad strategy when we have a good case, I will nevertheless put it aside and praise the representative for asking the question, because it gives rise to a good and important debate. It also strengthens us for the request for the negotiations, and I am, to say it in all modesty, proud of the professional competence of Norwegian diplomats here, the ability they have to intervene in the crucial moments when texts are to be drafted. And that's what we're going to do in the last few weeks. I have also planned to participate in the interview in Geneva at the end of April.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1701	The UN and various UN bodies have been an important part of Norwegian policy for many decades. It is through alliances with other Norway countries that the international arena can be achieved. Norway is encouraged that we have an international legal order, international dispute settlements and not least that we have an international negotiating table where one can address important issues. Through various UN decisions, the world has received running rules and universal justice decisions. The accession of countries to different UN Charters, Conventions and Decisions provides legal protection for the inhabitants of these countries. Unfortunately, we see that many countries do not follow up or comply with the international operating standards that they themselves have signed. On the contrary, violations of various UN conventions happen every day. However, there is no argument to give up or reduce the value of such international decisions. UN decisions are one of the strongest instruments of international society. Such decisions can be used to put pressure on and confront Member States with bad policies in several areas. This is also one of the instruments that Norwegian politicians have when we confront representatives of other countries with human rights violations, with violations of the Children's Convention, the Women's Convention or other conventions. Therefore, it is important to work through the UN to strengthen the common running principles and norms that will apply in the world. The UN is the sum of the Member States. Many countries have completely different approaches or agendas than Norway. We must not allow it to be an excuse or an argument that, through participation, we should not fight for our vision. If we look at the page line, at least we have no impact on the final result. If Norway and like-minded countries don't participate, we'll leave the arena to others. The decisions that may then be taken under the United Nations will hardly benefit either the United Nations or its Member States. Personally, I find it difficult to see that the fight against unacceptable decisions should be seen as a legitimisation of such decisions. Unfortunately, there is much to suggest that individual human rights and the value of different UN decisions have been weakened for much of the world in recent years. There are certainly several reasons for that, but personally I believe that what happened in Abu Ghraib and in Guantanamo is a large part of the cause of this negative development. The fact that the United States wasn't a human rights driver, but on the contrary even broke these, made it easier for other countries to do the same. It is therefore very gratifying that, after the presidential change, the United States has completely changed its policy when it comes to human rights. The fact that the Guantanamo camp is closed and the prisoners have access to legal procedures means that the United States no longer needs to be in the pit of shame when it comes to human rights. On the contrary, the country can now once again sit in the driver's seat in the fight to improve these dishes. It's very happy, and it promises well when the United States has now announced that they want to get back into the UN Human Rights Council. When it comes to the preconceptions that were made before the United Nations Conference on Racism, I think Norway has reason to be proud of the results that you have achieved, and that the Government has chosen the right strategy. Norway now has a possibility to modify the final document, which we would not have had if we were not participating in this process.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1716	I will first be allowed to thank the interpellant for an important interpellant. I would also like to say that we mainly support the assessments made by the representative Solberg in his comments. Before I start commenting on the matter itself, I will also give some commendation to the Minister for Foreign Affairs for two current events that I believe are relevant in this matter. One was perhaps the Foreign Minister's silent protest when the President of Sudan was present at a meeting where the Minister of Foreign Affairs was also present. If I understand correctly, according to the media, the foreign minister chose to leave the room, which I believe was a correct and correct behaviour. The second was quite recently, this week, when the Foreign Minister correctly addressed the situation of women in Afghanistan. It is important that we are clear on these questions. It's value issues. It's about international law and law. We also support the focus that has been set up and that Norway is trying to achieve, that this conference primarily and hopefully exclusively has racism and the fight against racism as its main focus. We've picked up Durban II on several occasions. In the budget debate before Christmas I expressed myself so that Norway should perhaps threaten to stay. But I said it had to be under the condition that we intend to hit hard on the table, that we will be clear and say so. This is perhaps where we have a small difference of opinion about how clear we, Norway, have now been in the drive up to this conference. There have been many preparatory meetings, and State Secretary Raymond Johansen was in Geneva on March 2nd this year and made a contribution. We think it was not as clear as we wanted it to be. He talked about building bridges over misunderstandings and preventing a conflict based on ignorance – so far. Freedom of expression was also pointed out. While other countries – and the Minister for Foreign Affairs will probably feel that it has not been wise – have threatened not to do so, we believe that the pressure has now given us a better document as the basis for the conference than we had before the pressure was put on it. Norway was not on the path of supporting, at least not familiar to me, other countries. The United States and Canada have been mentioned and more European. Denmark has, for example: have been much clearer. France has also said a lot about what are the red lines for the EU. So let's see the concrete thing about these formulations. It is true that Norway, together with Egypt, Belgium and the Russian Presidency, has now moved in and made changes. So the question is, have those changes always been positive? We want to think that maybe it hasn't been. I'm not going to go too much in detail, but there's a reference to the Holocaust. It was quite long and extensive. It's important, and not least it's important when we have the history of Durban I in the back of our head. With the help of Norway, this stripped and all the relevance to the number killed by the Germans, the Nazis, was lost. I believe this is a negative development, and it is not in line with the clarity that Norway should have exercised in its role to influence the document. So when we're going to talk about moving the document, we have to talk about the realities and what we're doing. The Foreign Minister points out that we're all going to go together, we're going to try to build bridges. But in some areas, it might be very important to stand on some principles. A dilution of a holocaust formulation was not what we wanted. Finally, the situation is that in some of the countries that have been most active in limiting freedom of expression, the focus has been on other conflicts and other situations. Perhaps that is where the core of the problem lies: how Pakistan, Iran, Algeria and others treat their own minorities – religious as others. And what you've contributed to in this misfocus is getting the attention away from what should be the real focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1731	The Minister of Foreign Affairs has explained in detail Norway’s commitment to the Durban Conference, which is really to provide a clearer protection for all those exposed to racism. The fact that Norway has chosen to participate actively in the final work and has not withdrawn or threatened to resign, as other countries have done, may prove to be very important for the final result. The Durban Conference is part of the UN work, and like the representative Olav Aksen, I would like to stress how important it is that we have an arena like the UN to fight for a better world. It was in the UN World Declaration on Human Rights, with a clear emphasis on all human beings being equally worthy, was adopted. Then not everyone agrees with this important principle, that is, how it is carried out in practice. In practice, regimes that oppress their own people will break human rights. But it is important to sit at the same table and be clear and responsible for them. It is not the same as legitimizing these regimes – it is to believe that in almost all cases dialogue is better than exclusion or withdrawal from dialogue. The Conference on Racism — the Durban II Conference — has been controversial, as was the case at the 2001 Conference, which was also the subject of the inter-pellant. In retrospect, most people agree that the result in 2001 was good. This is what the Minister for Foreign Affairs said, for example. This result is the basis for Norway’s action plan against racism. That this work is more important than ever shows the fact that both here at home and internationally there are forces that will create dividing lines and fences between us and the others, and thus also lay the basis for racism. Then there are several issues of conflict at the Racism Conference. I want to raise a question that others have not had to deal with, namely, that several countries in Africa and Asia want a text that is more responsible for previous colonial powers for the gross injustice that was committed during colonization and slave trade. In fact, at the global meeting of national institutions dealing with human rights issues, there were critical voices against the fact that the document is too euro-centric. But one thing was all agreed on, and I want the representative Erna Solberg to listen to, and it was that one had to attend the Durban II Conference to defend a global strategy and dialogue in the fight against racism and to prevent the improvements that, after all, are not to be destroyed by the forces that want to polarize. And that's it -- forces that want polarization. But I fully agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that it is not possible, for example. to join a text condemning the violation of religions. It's people – individuals – who need protection, not religions. And we also see that fundamentalist religious practice can just lay the foundation for the violation of human rights. I am pleased with the approach of the Minister of Foreign Affairs and the Government to this conference and to this work. I am pleased that the Minister for Foreign Affairs says so clearly that there is a limit to what Norway can join. But let us keep in mind that the Durban Conference in 2001 was important and that it has made significant progress in this area. The world needs it to be fixed at a new conference. So Olav Akselsen said something very important, that the setbacks that we've seen in this area, and what has been of negative development, can have their basis in the fight against terror that we've seen have been practiced both in Guantanamo and in Abu Ghraib. I want us all to stick to important principles, but that also means that many should have been much clearer in the criticism of the gross violations of human rights that were carried out there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1755	The first United Nations Conference on Racism, known as the Durban I Conference, took place in 2001. Unfortunately, it's gone down in history like a scandal. Israel and the United States, the latter led by Congress representative and Holocaust survivor Tom Lantos, protested. The reason was the conference's gross anti-Israeli use of human rights and abuse, voted out by a number of Muslim countries and their allies. The follow-up conference, the Durban II Conference, will now be held in Geneva on 20-24. ==References== Canada withdrew as mentioned already in January 2008 from the preparation of Durban II, because they feared a repetition of Durban I. In November 2008, Israel announced that they would boycott the conference for the same reason. Barack Obama's administration announced a month ago that the United States would boycott the United Nations conference if its final document was not amended, among other things. three points: it must not expel Israel as the only critical country. It must not restrict freedom of expression by reference to the violation of religion. And it must not give its support to the scandalous Durban I declaration of 2001. As I know it now seems as the last draft of the final document of the Durban II Conference of 17 March no longer mentions Israel, and that it is no longer religious criticism that is condemned, but religious hatred. I agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that this is a progress, but that is not good enough. Firstly, the last draft of Section 1 confirms the content of the Durban I Declaration of 2001, and the Durban I Declaration states that the Palestinians are victims of Israeli racism and that Israel is the only UN country guilty of racism. In this way, the gross and unilateral accusation against one country is repeated in practice. Secondly, it may be problematic for a UN declaration to address racism to include a ban on religious hatred. The draft declaration calls for the fight against people and organisations that encourage religious hatred with legal and political instruments. There's reason to fear that this might be abused by authoritarian regimes to crush opinions you don't like. Thirdly, there is a significant risk that the final declaration will be worse than this draft that is now on the table. The resolution adopted by the United Nations Human Rights Council on 27 March can indicate that. It re-established a unilateral criticism of Israel, and the term «religious hatred» was again replaced by the broad term «religion of religion». It gives me the desire to ask the Minister for Foreign Affairs what will be Norway's strategy if we become members of the UN Human Rights Council. The Christian People's Party fears that members of the Organization of Islamic States appear to have a dangerous, long-term strategy. They are constantly trying anti-Semitic propaganda and a unilateral hanging out of Israel as a racist occupying power. By making blasphemy speeches almost a kind of violation of human rights, oppressive regimes can provide political basis for defeating the opposition that criticises the lack of democracy and human rights in a host of Muslim countries. It would be tragic about countries such as the United States. Libya and Iran would thus succeed in ‘kidnap’ human rights. The Christian People's Party believes that Norway should normally participate in UN conferences to support a global forum for peaceful negotiations and influence the outcome. But there are limits to dialogue. If participation involves the legitimisation of premature attacks on one country and the undermining of the values and human rights of the UN, Norwegian support is gone. In that case, the message from the Christian People's Party is clear: the conference must be boycotted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1772	I want to start by thanking the interpellant for addressing an important and topical question. I realize that this is a difficult question, as a borderline is requested in relation to fundamental human rights that freedom of expression is part of. As the Council of State said, and as the U.D. website also shows, the Norwegian position is to promote a strong and clear text against racism in connection with the Durban II Conference on 20 April. Furthermore, only humans – not religions – have human rights rights. Therefore, Norway cannot accept any language on the violation of religions in the final document. Nor can Norway accept languages that weaken freedom of expression as defined in the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights. This is a clear and fundamental position that the Left and I suppose most people in Norway can stand behind. As I see it, the issue of the interpellant in the recently submitted St.melding is being addressed. No 15 – Interests, responsibilities and opportunities. On page 106: ‘The shift in the international power relationship in human rights work is one of the main challenges in Norway’s work on human rights and democracy. [[...]] In this situation, we must dare to be principled, while actively dealing with a new real political reality." Of this I read that we are going to be principled, but this has to be adapted to a new reality, where countries that do not support human rights are doing more strongly than before. The question is what the wording ‘we are actively dealing with a new real political reality’ implies in practice. So what does it want, for example? in Geneva on 20 April in connection with the Durban II anti-racism conference? Some of the answers may have been received in the March 27th VG this year, where it appears that Norwegian diplomats in Geneva, together with Russia, Egypt and Belgium, are working on a compromise proposal for the final document of the conference. According to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, this work had not been completed, but the parties had made significant progress in relation to the original draft. The question is whether this new compromise text is clear enough to remove the ban on Islam criticism – and whether it is clear enough to protect freedom of expression. Furthermore, it remains to be seen whether the Islamic states of Africa and Asia will join the document. I'm not in a position to speculate here. For me, however, it is a small cross of thought whether the Government is going to translate its fine words into «weighing more in principle» into a draw with Russia, Egypt and Belgium, and since all Islamic countries in Africa and Asia, about words and phrases in a compromise text. Does the Government’s word reduce itself to find formulations that crawl within the framework of human rights obligations that Norway and many other countries have with regard to international conventions? Or is it “weighing to be more principled” about something more – about standing up with a clear message? I'm going to follow the Durban II conference with great interest in finding answers to just this. I really hope that the Norwegian line will be something more than saving a compromise with which all parties can so far live. On the contrary, the Government should, with its clear position in principle, stand up and speak in clear terms during the Conference. I therefore agree that it is initially right to participate in the conference – just to influence it. However, we should not go along with our principles and engage in anything that legitimizes the dilution of fundamental human rights. Therefore, leaving the conference en route should potentially be a real option.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1804	Like Morten Höglund, I would like to begin by commending the Minister of Foreign Affairs for having taken up the new law that will apply to the Shia Muslims, i.e. 15 pst. by the Afghan population, which must be called grossly discriminatory and oppressive. Fundamental human rights are universal and can never be culturally related, whether we are talking about freedom of expression, women's integrity and human dignity or the right not to be discriminated against because of racial or ethnic affiliation. We do not accept that culture and religion are used as a pretext for partly extreme repression of journalists and writers, or for keeping women down. Nor do we accept racism — believing that some ethnic groups are worth less than others — which in history has had its perhaps most extreme expression in the southern states of the United States and in the apartheid regime of South Africa. That is why it is important to have a strong and clear text against racism at the UN Conference in three weeks' time. It is therefore necessary to work to ensure that the conference focuses on the fight against racism and not on restricting human rights. Something else would be a mockery both of the work on human rights and of the important fight against racism and of integration and diversity. That is why we cannot accept a text that weakens the freedom of expression as laid down in the International Convention on Civil and Political Rights, Articles 19 and 20. So it's that you never achieve results by staying out of a conference or a summit. It is the very dynamics of the preparatory work and during the meeting that are driving important matters further. The final document of any conference will be based on the art of the compromise, while not allowing for four basic principles. I'm not saying this is easy. The preparation of Durban II in Geneva has thus been extra challenging. Some have had – and have – agendas other than to get binding action plans in each country against racism and xenophobia. But Norway wants, as the Foreign Minister put it, a strong and clear text against racism. In that work, of course, we cannot accept that other human rights are trampled on by someone with completely different agendas. But that is exactly why we need to talk both to allied countries and to countries that are more distant from us. This is not least important in order to ensure a wider focus also on defending established and universal human rights. In this regard, let me address another case concerning human rights, which is in many ways related to this matter, and which was mentioned in the Official Journal of Bergen yesterday, namely Norway's systematic work of becoming a member of the UN Human Rights Council. I strongly disagree with those representatives of the opposition who oppose Norway's attempt to become a member. As far as I understand it, they justify the fact that some countries that are not the best in human rights are in the Council. I have to ask then, isn't it important to make the UN Human Rights Council work as intended? And don't we have to do what we can to both get there and help other crazy countries get there? Now the United States is also signaling that they want to enter the Human Rights Council. We can't leave UN agencies to the wretched. If we want to use the UN – the UN – we also need to do what we can to gain influence, get into forums that matter and that produce results. It really doesn't mean we can't cooperate with Jordan, Nigeria or Slovakia, as I read Bergen's Official Journal yesterday. The work on human rights is too important for that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1817	The challenge with some final communiqués, some compromises, some things that we solve here and now, is that they often become permanent. When someone now sees the final communication of the Durban I conference as a challenge, it lives on because it is referred to in a new document in subsequent rounds. That's the way it is every time we make the little compromises that find a solution that shifts the understanding of a term in one direction. They live in the next conferences and in other areas. Because it is always easy in the world of international compromises and diplomacy to say that we agreed on that wording at the time, then we take it back in. That's one of my reasons why I'm very concerned that in these areas we don't make compromises that reinterpret some of our human rights in the narrower sense of the individual's right to states, to groups, to the environment around. For they will live on and be perceived as an interpretation and a narrowing of the human rights we have. That this government has problems with human rights and their understanding, we have seen time and again in Norwegian national politics. SV did well at the top of their national meeting, as they had not realised that there are two conventions — the Children’s Convention and the Convention on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights — that guarantee parents the right to choose school for their own children. But it is also so that even in a democracy, the majority may think that they should limit them. Then, in fact, human rights are a pillar to stop regulators. But the challenge in Durban II is not to make small compromises that live on as an incision. Then I think this debate has been good, that it has given a very clear mandate to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: Norway is not involved. We don't want to. There's a limit. But then I have to say to the question of the Human Rights Council that I think it is okay that we become a member. I have been asked the following question: why are we so quiet on the way to it? Is any of the process, where in individual cases we do not criticize things in other countries, a reason why we want to become a member of the Human Rights Council? Because I was very optimistic when the UN formed a Human Rights Council, because then I thought that now it became dynamic in the future. My hope, then, is that Norway, if we become a member, will be a fireworks factory in the Human Rights Council, that we will show a clearer, bigger and stronger direction than we have so far done under this government. For in too many things, people have chosen to tone down criticism and tone up dialogue, which has made even human rights champions and organisations not quite sure where we should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1828	I think we have had a good debate, as the representative of Solberg says. I thank her for the interpellation. I think we have had a debate about content and one about method. I believe that on content there is a great deal of consensus. Let me just say that we've used the existing conventions to put a compass in the conversations that were necessary to clean up the very unbridled document that was, and that led to this document of 17 March, using the references there as posts. So I think we agree on a lot of that. So to method that's interesting. In the contributions of the representative, Eriksen and the representative, Larsen, there is an underlying tone: Should we work with countries like Russia, Libya, Egypt? – and you name the country of the world. My answer to that is yes, because the picture being drawn is that the countries, because they are with them, decide, and they are estrangements. But that's not true. These countries are in a minority in the world, if we play our cards right, because many countries want to be in and use the human rights instruments. And those that don't, we have to try to isolate. We must draw with the new democracies, new countries, respect for the conventions. Then I take it quite calmly when the representative, Solberg, says that I am in favour of dialogue for my own sake. It's completely wrong. But the alternative to dialogue is to go, or it's monologue. My experience is that if you're principled, well prepared, and having good alliances, dialogue is the language's usage, the engagement of the other side. What does it mean to be principled and to understand the new reality of real politics? It means understanding the world we're in. What's happening today is that the Obama administration takes note of it. U.N. Ambassador Susan Rice says we have to enter the tent and not stand outside. And we know that we will be fighting because the West – narrowly defined – does not have a majority in the Human Rights Council. But we have to go in to influence there. Whether fireworks are the right tool, we can look at them. But we're going to be clear, in principle and use our entire network when we're working. I would like to say to the representative, Mr Höglund, that the 2001 document is a good document. It is mixed with the NGO Conference. The representative, Eriksen, also did. Read the 2001 document. I believe that this is an acceptable document, and the so-called Middle East paragraph is balanced, also in relation to Israel. Now we have succeeded in getting all the references to individual conflicts out. I think that's good, and Israeli representatives have also given us very much recognition. But it's not like this text doesn't mention holocaust. The Holocaust is mentioned, in much the same way as in 2001. But it's not a long episode of holocaust, because then one would have opened up to a long number of chapters of various other terrible human tragedies. So we're going to stand up to the Geneva Conference, and I see it as having broad support in the Storting for what we want to achieve. Then I also hope that we do not give up the Norwegian tradition that it is on the inside that we manage to influence, not by standing outside like a small country and shouting in the woods.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1845	The debate on substance is closed. 3 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1861	The next two days, NATO will hold an important summit that will bring together the leaders of the Alliance. Prior to this, on behalf of the Christian People's Party, I would like to give the Minister of Foreign Affairs an opportunity to update the Greatness of what the Government is doing to contribute to progress in the work of nuclear disarmament more generally, and especially in the context of the NATO Summit. The safety risk associated with nuclear weapons is high. They're only used twice – over Hiroshima and Nagasaki. But never have two simple bombs created so much death, destruction and misery. In this hall, we all have a common desire that nuclear weapons never be used again. The explosive power of nuclear weapons has increased enormously since 1945. Today, at the atomic powers, we've picked up a completely frightening overkill capacity. The United States and Russia, the two nuclear powers alone, over 95 p.m. by the nuclear weapons, can destroy each other several times if they use their weapons. In the Storting there is a broad consensus that the long-term goal must be to create a nuclear-free world. But it's a fact that the public debate and commitment around nuclear weapons and disarmament issues are somewhat bleak. Someone will go as far as to call it sleeping. Others have said that the issue of disarmament has recently fallen asleep. At the same time, we know that the commitment and pressure of civil society from grassroots is absolutely vital for us to make significant progress in this field. We need commitment, and we need political leadership. We need to focus on practical and feasible disarmament measures. We need to define specific objectives. Without that, we will find no solution, and the threat will not be reduced. Despite some progress on the road to disarmament between the two central nuclear powers a few years ago, we have recently seen alarming trends in the proliferation of nuclear weapons to new states. And if nuclear bombs were to come on the hands of terrorists, the situation would be disastrous. Russia’s president, Medvedev, recently announced a massive upgrading of the country’s nuclear weapons. The head of the International Atomic Energy Agency, IAEA, ElBaradei, has said that the danger of nuclear weapons being used again has never been greater than it is now. The killing capacity of nuclear weapons gives nuclear weapons an unsurpassed military power. The price may be very high if, for some reason, whether it is an accident or an unstable actor, it breaks the balance and triggers a nuclear weapon. Today, more and more countries want to enter the nuclear club. Communist North Korea is developing both long-range missiles and has ambitions to acquire nuclear weapons. However, the Islamic regime in Iran is the main challenge of the proliferation of nuclear weapons. The regime has not shown sufficient willingness to cooperate with the international community. It's very worrying. In February, one of the Muslim world's most famous theologians, al-Qaradhawi, went out into a television broadcast sermon and encouraged Arab countries to acquire both nuclear and chemical and biological weapons, so that Islamic states could frighten their enemies, to use his own words. When I mention these current and alarming features, it's because this image has been dominant. It is rooted in international agreements on arms control and not least in a cornerstone of this contract building, the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons – the NPT Agreement. In the last few days, however, we have seen a special, new and positive development. In the Washington Post on Tuesday, the Russian President Medvedev stated that he agreed with President Obama that resumption of the disarmament process should be an immediate priority for Russia and the United States. It is a really good news that the United States and Russia will now start new negotiations on the disarmament of nuclear weapons, as President Obama and President Medvedev confirmed in London yesterday. For a long time, the question of disarmament has been hibernated, among other things. because the Bush administration did not show a strong commitment to disarmament, to say the least, a bit neatly, especially after 11 September 2001. The hope now is that the new American administration can give a new give in the disarmament work. The economic situation suggests that it makes sense to reduce the number of nuclear weapons now. This means that the last days’ signals may be economically dependent and may not necessarily indicate a major breakthrough. But as a step in the right direction, it's very positive. The change of President in the United States and the financial crisis are both factors that enable us to now be helped by the main actors in disarmament. We now have a historic opportunity to cut deep into nuclear weapons stocks, and we have to use that opportunity. Norway and NATO should also help to reduce the risk of nuclear weapons being used by adjusting the role of such weapons in the defence strategy. There are cross-political expectations that the Government will actively contribute to the revision of NATO’s new strategic concept in a way that reduces nuclear weapons’ position in the security policy. Unfortunately, NATO's nuclear strategy, as it is today, helps to legitimize that NATO's nuclear weapons states maintain and further develop their nuclear arsenals. NATO's strategic concept keeps the possibility open for the first use of nuclear weapons. If NATO renounced this strategy, it would make an important contribution to the disarmament committed by the NPT. NATO's strategic concept is important as the external face of the alliance. Positive changes will increase the credibility of NATO countries in their disarmament and non-proliferation efforts. The Christian People's Party believes that NATO should reduce the role of nuclear weapons in security policy and change the doctrine of the first use of nuclear weapons. Norway must fully support a United Nations-led world order based on peaceful cooperation between countries committed to binding agreements on international law. We need to strengthen the role of the UN as a watchbow in the non-proliferation sector, the IAEA, so that they can effectively carry out their control tasks. Norway contributed through the 7-country initiative, where we mobilised some NATO countries, a nuclear-weapon state and non-aligned countries in an attempt to move the UN. It did not work in 2005, but the intention must be maintained. We have to do what we can to make NATO contribute to the nuclear disarmament work. It's in our own security policy interest and in the world's common interest. In the NATO context, there are several options for action. We are all aware that we need to maintain the balance between being an active driver and an active consensus builder in order to achieve practical results. But we now have an area of action where more initiatives can be assessed. In the summer of 2007, Norway and Germany took an initiative to strengthen NATO’s disarmament exposure. It was to some extent reflected during the previous NATO summit, in Bucuresti. A week ago, Minister of Foreign Affairs, Støre, in Oslo Military Society, confirmed the importance of this being reflected in NATO's new strategic concept. The aim is to reinforce the clarification that nuclear weapons are being reduced in the area of security policy. And the question is, what can the Minister of Foreign Affairs say to the Stortinge today about the possibilities of doing this in practice? Before this NATO summit, it is working on a so-called Declaration on Alliance Security. And the question is, does this declaration provide stronger guidance for the disarmament of nuclear weapons? In this respect, let me mention that, when the Foreign Affairs Committee dealt with the disarmament notification last autumn, a unanimous committee for this work showed and supported the fact that NATO's nuclear strategy must be discussed. I hope the Foreign Minister can say something about the prospects for positive adjustments to NATO's nuclear strategy. I would like to give the Foreign Minister an opportunity to update the Stortinget on what Norway has done during the preparations, and what Norway will do during the NATO summit itself, which is going off the stack in a few days in Strasbourg.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1912	I would like to thank the representative Sahl for giving me the opportunity to present more closely the government's efforts to raise the disarmament dimension in NATO, and not least in relation to the forthcoming summit. Let me also thank you for having, for the first time in this Chamber, a debate about the role of nuclear weapons – that is very important. In the summer of 2007, Norway and Germany took the initiative to strengthen NATO’s commitment in the area of disarmament, as the representative mentioned. The background was that both countries believed that this important aspect of security policy had come into the shadow of the alliance in recent years. This was an unfortunate development, since disarmament has been defined as an important pillar of NATO since the adoption of the Harmel report in 1967 – and it was clearly in line with the Soria Moria Declaration and the Government's foreign policy in general. The Norwegian-German initiative gathered after each broad upturn. Our commitment had both short-term and long-term objectives. In the short term, we wanted to raise disarmament on the political agenda of NATO. This was achieved at the summit in Bucuresti last year. We had adopted a summit statement that reflected far more strongly the importance of disarmament than had been the case for many years. A special reinforced NATO Council on Disarmament has since been held. There is a broad consensus in the alliance to continue this practice. Our short-term objective of lifting disarmament on NATO's agenda is now well on track. However, the real challenge is of a longer-term nature. Our ambition is that NATO will contribute to the achievement of the ultimate goal of the Nuclear Non-Proliferation Agreement, the NPT, the goal of a world free of nuclear weapons. However, this will be a more difficult process, naturally enough. There is no secret that NATO still has different views on the emphasis of nuclear weapons in its security policy. Firstly, we have the nuclear weapons states in NATO — the United States, the United Kingdom and France — which have for several years underlined the need to maintain nuclear deterrence. These three countries have been supported by many of the new Member States in the alliance, giving their historical experience. Other countries, mentioned by Norway and Germany, have worked to reduce the role of nuclear weapons in the security policy of the Alliance. In other words, it's not a simple consensus here. The first milestone is the negotiation of a declaration of Atlantic security, as the representative said, to be adopted at the NATO Summit which will begin tomorrow. The declaration will lead the work on a new strategic concept for NATO. Our goal is to establish that NATO will support the global disarmament and non-proliferation agreements, such as the NPT. We also want to avoid a statement that gives the impression that NATO will base its security on nuclear deterrence in the foreseeable future. Let me stress that the declaration on Atlantic security will be briefed and of a general nature, that is, the one that we will adopt tomorrow. The real test of NATO’s nuclear doctrine comes only when the negotiations on NATO’s strategic concept – the last one is dated 1999; we are now starting a new one – are launched. These will be challenging, but at the same time will give us an opportunity to influence in NATO. So the last time NATO revised its concept was in connection with the 50th anniversary of 1999. Attempts were then made to defuse the role of nuclear weapons, but these attempts led only in part. It was not possible to obtain a pass for a non-first-use doctrine of nuclear weapons. However, the concept stated that the prospects for the alliance to use or threaten the use of nuclear weapons are extremely distant. Nevertheless, nuclear weapons were defined as a pillar of the alliance's security. So it's status today. The ambitions this time must be higher. Firstly, our main objective must be to create an understanding that NATO's nuclear deterrence is not of a lasting nature. This is also in line with the letter and spirit of the Non-Proliferation Agreement. Today, as such, the United States and NATO are clearly superior in conventional means of combat. At the same time, if we stick to our nuclear deterrence as crucial to our security, countries that do not possess nuclear weapons will emphasise that they want the same security coverage. Secondly, the nuclear doctrine of the Alliance should be even clearer that our nuclear deterrence is directed towards the use of nuclear weapons by states outside NATO. Countries that do not possess nuclear weapons or are not in alliance with a nuclear state shall not be exposed to or threatened with nuclear weapons. Such a message will have a strong confidence-building effect on the vast majority of countries without nuclear weapons. In this context, I would like to stress that I am skeptical about linking nuclear weapons to biological, chemical or other conventional weapons. At my discretion, nuclear weapons are in a special position. The threshold for using such weapons must be raised rather than lowered. Thirdly, the level of preparedness of outsourced weapons should be considered. Germany, Spain, Portugal, Belgium, Iceland and Norway have been the only ones in NATO who have voted in favour of a resolution at the UN General Assembly which calls for concrete action to reduce the level of preparedness. We believe that this will be important to prevent weapons being fired as a result of a lack of security systems, and not least it will give policy makers more time in a serious tense situation. This is something the new political leadership in the United States is also concerned about, and we will seek to work further with them. Fourth, as a result of the discussions on the strategic concept, the question of the future of the US tactical nuclear weapons deployed in Europe could be debated. This is a question that concerns parliamentarians in countries such as Belgium, the Netherlands and Germany. The demand for withdrawal is increasing in strength, while there are strong forces suggesting that these weapons constitute the very glue above the Atlantic Ocean. I am convinced that the cohesion of NATO is and should be built on a much stronger foundation than the deployment of these weapons. Fifth, a trend towards a reduction in the emphasis on nuclear weapons will have to lead NATO to look at the concept of deterrence in its full scope. I believe the alliance should be equipped for this. We are conventionally strong, and we stand for values based on international law. It is clear that the outside world will follow closely in the design of NATO’s new strategic concept. Many will consider the new concept as a test of whether NATO is serious about nuclear disarmament. It is therefore important that the alliance meet these expectations. This, in turn, will have an effect on the work of ringing and further strengthening the non-proliferation agreement. We should do this based on our own interest. A weakening of the NPT will be very serious. This agreement has been instrumental in preventing the uncontrolled spread of nuclear weapons for nearly 40 years. However, we cannot take this agreement for granted. Today, we are facing major dissemination challenges, such as North Korea and Iran. If we do not have the power to solve these politically, we are facing the danger that other countries in, for example, the Middle East or East Asia will see themselves serving to break out of the NPT and acquire their own nuclear weapons. The NPT was a historic compromise in which the vast majority of countries renounced the right to nuclear weapons, against having access to civil nuclear power, and – it is important to stress – that the nuclear powers had become rusted down. Many ask themselves why the richest and most powerful in the military still feel that they need a weapon that most countries do not own and that the same nuclear weapons countries are actively working to prevent its spread. Full abolition will not be possible overnight, but NATO must show will and lead the way. But as I said, there are still different views in NATO about nuclear weapons. We must be realistic. We must therefore have realistic expectations of what will be possible to achieve in a new review of the strategic concept. However, we achieve nothing without being ambitious and working along several tracks. It is important to continue close cooperation with similar countries as Germany, Belgium and Spain. At the same time, we must engage our allied nuclear weapons states. Norway has already developed, as the representative said, a good cooperation with the United Kingdom through the 7-country initiative and a groundbreaking bilateral project on the verification of disarmament. We have initiated the new Obama administration. I want to attend a seminar on disarmament in Washington already on Monday and have conversations on these issues with the US Secretary of State. As a candidate, Obama expressed views that are in fact close to those pursued by Norway in the 7 country initiative. Now we take him to the floor. I would especially like to take up disarmament when I, as I said, meet American decision-makers in the United States next week. I am also following up our disarmament agenda with my French colleague. I also think it is important that parliamentarians engage in this work. I want to commend the many from Norway who show commitment and profile in this area. I know that nuclear weapons are central, among other things. at the forthcoming annual main meeting of the Interparliamentary Union – IPU. Finally, during the treatment of St.meld. No 27 for 2007-2008 on disarmament and non-proliferation last autumn, there was a broad consensus on the Government's goal of a world free of weapons of mass destruction. I can assure you that we are working systematically to translate this into practical policy – including within the NATO framework. Then I'll finally share the assessment that the representative Sahl gave for the cautious reason of optimism we might have after the meeting between the American and Russian President. These two states are on 95 pst. of the rockets. Now, when argued for deep cuts in the context of a START extension, this is positive. It shows that politics works. A new president in the United States with a new programme can put a move on a question that is clearly also wise in the face of the economic crisis, because the world needs to spend money for far more productive, important purposes when we have both food crisis, climate crisis and financial crisis.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1961	Let me first thank the Foreign Minister for a full and interesting answer. The Christian People's Party is pleased that the Council of State and the Department, as far as we now have the impression, are following up the Norwegian people's and Stortinge's goal of a future nuclear-free world. We will follow with great interest the further work and further development, not least what is to be done at the NATO Summit. It is important, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs stressed, that the short-term objective, seen from the Norwegian side, has been achieved by raising the issue on NATO's table and that it is for debate in NATO. But the objective is a little further ahead, which is what will be the formulations of the future NATO Security Policy concept. So I would like to mention one thing that the Foreign Minister touched on as one of the points, and that is interesting, namely that there are tactical nuclear weapons in Europe, located out in nuclear-free states. American tactical nuclear weapons are still deployed in five nuclear-free states: Belgium, Italy, the Netherlands, Turkey and Germany – if I remember correctly. In peacetime, these weapons are under American control, but if war breaks out, they can be transferred to the national forces of the countries. Today, these airborne nuclear bombs have hardly any function. They are said to have no significant military significance. However, stockholding in many places increases the risk of, among other things, thieving. In my view, it could be a step forward if these atomic bombs could be removed, for example. while Russia removes some of its corresponding nuclear bombs. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs view such a scenario, in addition to what he so far had in place, as a first step in the negotiation of withdrawing some of the tactical nuclear weapons that both countries possess?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1972	I do not think it is easy to give a clear answer to the question that was asked here. What is now important to hold on to is that Russians and Americans seem to be starting a constructive and hopefully trusting cooperation on disarmament, and then first of all the strategic weapons. It's interesting, as the representative also pointed out in his post, that only a few days ago Medvedev announced something that could remind us of great use for upgrading. More analysts said that this is more talk than practical politics, because the resources to do it don't have Russia, and it's hardly likely that they're going to prioritize it. So we saw another Medvedev in London yesterday. It's obvious that that process is now going the right way. I think we have to do everything we can to support it, and then hope that Russia and the United States will be a couple in moving forward, both to strengthen the test stop regime, to strengthen the non-proliferation regime, to strengthen the commitments under the NPT and to contribute to the success of the NPT conference in 2010. President Obama has stressed that it is an important topic that is now going on in the nuclear nations on the modernisation of the existing weapons and that will raise many challenges. We have noticed that Obama has said that the United States should not have new types of nuclear weapons. We should also hold him responsible for that. So I want to say that in terms of NATO -- let me just elaborate on it -- it's probably likely that at the summit tomorrow we're going to see a repetition of what is NATO's existing strategy in this area where nuclear weapons are involved. But at the same time, we have to try to get a process element into the statement that we're going to help have disarmament as a goal. Although one can have a critical view of the first-use doctrine, that it is both tactical nuclear weapons and that nuclear weapons are part of the strategy, I think we can say that without NATO, several countries in Europe would probably have nuclear weapons as a project for their security policy, which they do not have in today's situation. It's turning it into a process where we can become less dependent on nuclear weapons, which must be the goal we're going to work for. A country like Norway, which does not have nuclear weapons, can make a lot of good impressions. An important point in terms of the right to use civil nuclear power is to be able to develop systems that allow you to obtain fuel without producing it yourself. It's important for security. For this reason, Norway has been supporting the proposal to set up a fuel bank, where fuel can be picked up without producing it itself. We were in favour of this at an early stage. We also allocated money to it early. With US money and money from, among others, Norway is fully financed and can in principle enter into force.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e1983	I've been to several disarmament conferences and non-proliferation conferences internationally for the past year. Every time, I am equally proud to be able to show that Norway has a government and a parliament that agrees that we should have a world free of nuclear weapons and that goes into the brink of arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation. everywhere we meet Norwegians praise, recognition and enthusiasm for Norwegian initiatives and our work on disarmament, among others. by the International Parliamentary Network against Nuclear Weapons. Interpellant referred to as St.meldning. No 33 for 2006–2007, which came a few years ago. However, the size has dealt with several relevant cases after that, first and foremost St.meld. No 27 for 2007-2008 last autumn, with debate in Stortinget on 20 November last year. Then a unanimous Foreign Affairs Committee joined the three main objectives of the Government in its communication, which are: working for security at the lowest possible level of armaments through legally binding agreements to work for a world free of weapons of mass destruction to work for the abolition of weapons causing unacceptable humanitarian suffering The Committee also stressed that we must work for disarmament and non-proliferation of all kinds of weapons of mass destruction. Nevertheless, the Committee agreed and acknowledged that nuclear weapons are in a special position. It also said the Foreign Minister here from the pulpit. Remember, there were as many deaths in Hiroshima and Nagasaki as in the tsunami in Southeast Asia in December 2004. But the nuclear bomb was man-made – an intentional event. Today there are bombs that are many, many times bigger than the bombs that fell on Japan. Norway has been, and is, very active in NATO to get arms control and non-proliferation. At last year’s NATO summit, Norway, together with Germany, managed to obtain special disarmament obligations in the final document. It can be claimed that NATO's nuclear strategy violates the obligations of the Non-Proliferation Agreement, the NPT. The 2000 Supervisory Conference presented an action plan of 13 steps for nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation. Although the same conference ended in failure in 2005, the so-called 7-country group, led by Norway, continued to work. It is important to work for a new vision in the NPT process, in particular in view of the Conference of Supervisors next year. But it's a problem that NATO still has an atomic strategy that's adapted to a cold war situation. It would be an important signal for the NATO Supervisory Conference to take up the nuclear strategy for discussion next year. That is why it is so important to reach a decision at the summit now — starting tomorrow — to develop a new strategic concept for the alliance. NATO has, as the inter-pellant and foreign minister said, started a process of a transatlantic charter. The plan is to adopt a so-called Declaration on Alliance Security at the summit, which also marks the 60th anniversary of the alliance. It is important to reach agreement on a new strategic concept, which must be worked on until the next summit. As the Foreign Minister stressed, the negotiations on a new concept are likely to be challenging, not least in the field we are talking about now. Ten years ago, it turned out impossible to reduce the role of nuclear weapons. The Foreign Minister said here a few minutes ago that ambitions must now be higher. I agree with the Foreign Minister that the cohesion of NATO is built on a much stronger foundation than the deployment of tactical nuclear weapons in Europe. There is an increasing demand for withdrawal, particularly from the parliaments of the Member States. Finally, the point of light today is that the United States and Russia have agreed to negotiate a new agreement on mutual disarmament, among other things. Strategic nuclear weapons. These two superstates have 95 pst. of all the nuclear weapons. In fact, the world is moving forward too. We sometimes need some patience, while we're very impatient.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2017	First of all, I want to pay tribute to the representative, Sahl, who is focusing on this very important issue. The size was treated a short time ago St.meld. No 33 for 2006–2007, where various disarmament issues were addressed in depth. During the treatment, there was broad consensus on important issues such as nuclear disarmament and the objective of a nuclear-free world. It was also established that it is important to work for disarmament and non-proliferation of both chemical, biological and nuclear weapons, and that this was a fundamental part of security policy work. It is also essential that the path towards a world without nuclear weapons should be based on binding and verifiable agreements, which must cover all countries. Russia and the United States are currently in possession of most of the world’s nuclear weapons – 95 pst. has been claimed here today. Although it may not be these people who are most concerned about today, it has been essential that these countries start negotiations again in order to bring about a necessary and sensible reduction. It was therefore very joyful messages that yesterday came from London, where the Russian and the American president had agreed on a continuation of disarmament negotiations between the two countries. This disarmament process stopped a few years ago and the START agreement expires at the end of this year. Hopefully, stocks of offensive strategic weapons will now be further limited, as evidenced by an improvement in the climate between these two countries. NATO, which is also to play an active role in arms control, disarmament and non-proliferation, can and should have a driving role in order to achieve a substantial reduction in such weapons. In the past, the size has underlined the importance of NATO’s continuous assessment of its nuclear strategy to reduce the role of these weapons in international policy. The process of the transatlantic charter and the presentation of Declaration on Alliance Security opens up the reassessment of NATO’s nuclear strategy. The aim of the process is to strengthen NATO’s vision of its role in meeting new safety challenges and the ability to carry out its mission. This means both the responsibility of NATO for collective defence and the contribution to international security and stability. As the interpellant claims, here you have to try to develop a new strategic concept where you have the ability to give nuclear weapons a less prominent place than before. The majority said – unanimously – during the discussion of the Disarmament and Non-Proliferation Report that NATO’s nuclear strategy had to be re-examined during this work. Norway should therefore actively participate in this work in the future. I am so pleased with the feedback from the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the Government's work to contribute to this purpose in front of the NATO Summit. I also expect the Foreign Minister to follow this up and take an active part in the forthcoming summit, so that, hopefully, NATO will also contribute to a sensible and necessary escalation of disarmament processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2043	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is soon to come. That is why the meeting of the morning is being cancelled, and Stortinget will be back at 0 p.m. 18th@item: inlistbox The first speaker at the evening meeting is Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2076	In my contribution to the debate on the disarmament message before Christmas, I said that we live in interesting times when it comes to disarmament issues – not interesting in a positive sense, but challenging in the sense. And we're still going to do that. So the representative of Sahl's interpellation comes at the right time, and goes, in a sense, to the core of one of the most important challenges of our time. The challenges are real when it comes to disarmament issues, especially in relation to nuclear weapons. The number of nuclear weapons countries has increased considerably in the last 20 years, and several countries and non-governmental actors are trying to acquire such weapons. The proliferation of nuclear technology is increasing as the expected expansion of civil nuclear power in the years ahead. This will create new challenges for non-proliferation. We know terrorists are working to get weapons of mass destruction. These challenges need to be met with long-term and committed cooperation in all relevant multilateral fora. As the world's strongest military alliance with three of the world's nuclear states as leading members, there is a responsibility on NATO, but at the same time great opportunities for change for the better. The alliance is a central player and will be a very important premiscuous provider for further development in this area. The revision of the strategic concept will allow for a broader discussion of the role and tasks of NATO to adapt the alliance to new challenges. With disarmament and non-proliferation high on the threat agenda, the Right only welcomes the work done to increase the integration of the disarmament dimension into NATO's work. We give tribute to the work that Norway is doing together with Germany in this area. The signals from the new U.S. administration indicate a willingness to reinvent nuclear weapons. Obama made clear signals about disarmament and the elimination of all nuclear weapons during her election campaign. Vice-President Biden has also signalled such a move towards zero approximation in the meeting with European leaders. Domestic policy support for such a principal approach in the United States is said to be increasing. But then it is also said, as was said when the Foreign Affairs Committee was visiting our delegation in Brussels, that when the US Vice-President suddenly comes and says that he would like to listen to their agenda on disarmament, the answers are not as clear from the European allies. That means that we have a job to do with assembling the agenda for how we work with disarmament and non-proliferation. So there's an exciting development in the United States, and several commentators believe that Obama can already give clear signals about the future during his visit this week. A total mass shares the vision of eliminating all nuclear weapons. A world without nuclear weapons will be a safer world. At the same time, we must be realistic in that way. On the way to vision, we meet an unpredictable and insecure world. Russia still has nearly 10,000 nuclear warheads, and a unilateral American or Western disarmament seems to be a little bit topical, including for Obama. Reciprocality in disarmament is the keyword. Other keywords are firmness and cohesion, not least in the face of threats from Iran and North Korea, which are still equally topical, and which can be expected to become more and more topical in the course of the year on the international agenda. North Korea is most likely to launch a new long-range ballistic missile later this week. The threat of nuclear weapons combined with ballistic missiles must be met with all instruments, mainly political and diplomatic, but also, if necessary, others. It is important to stop this development. So far, unfortunately, deterrence still has a function, including for NATO. The challenge for NATO will therefore be to address current challenges and threats in parallel with a forward-looking strategy to help achieve visionary goals. So it requires a strategic concept from the alliance, adapted to a new time and new challenges, based on an open and knowledge-based debate. This is a debate where emotions often run faster than actual knowledge should say, and a debate and strategy that the whole alliance can stand together behind. We are attending a revision of NATO's strategic concept from the Right. We also hope that all the parties in NATO will be able to coordinate on that kind of way of thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2099	I would also like to thank the representative Sahl for having now raised this important issue and, as Erna Solberg said, it was in time. Because it's one of the most important issues of our time. In reality, it's a matter of life and death, because the nuclear weapon has such a terrible character as it has. Mass mobilisation against nuclear weapons has led to results earlier, but then we know that the fight against nuclear weapons has sometimes been led by very few. In return, these have kept up knowledge and preparedness. I would like to take the opportunity to thank No for the nuclear weapons and other organisations that have been clear in their message, namely that the fight against nuclear weapons is at least as important as it was in the 1980s, when the great mass mobilisation took place. This vision also had the former director of the IAEA, Hans Blix, when I heard him at a Nordic museum conference yesterday. Then he said that he dreams of taking his grandchildren and grandchildren to a future museum with exhibitions showing how the world was rid of nuclear weapons. The point is not the museum, but that he so clearly emphasizes in every context the importance of the long struggle for a nuclear-free world. One of the people who has fed us with knowledge is nuclear physicist Morten Bremer Märli. He writes in an article in the newspaper that today's total nuclear arsenal would take four and a half days to detonate if a Hiroshima bomb was detonated every second. An unpleasant truth, really! But, as many have said, there is light in the tunnel, if it is now being worked purposefully from several countries, including the United States. Norway. There is reason for hope when Obama and Medvedev may seem to start the discussion of reducing the number of strategic missiles. When NATO appears to be starting work on a new strategic concept, it is important to get the discussions into public space. As Märli points out in his article, overall discussions on nuclear weapons have been taking place in closed NATO spaces for a long time. Now you might wonder how many discussions have taken place, but to the extent that they have taken place, they have taken place in enclosed spaces. There was also not much discussion when NATO changed its concept in 1999. But getting the discussions out in public space must be done if you are to hope that the efforts against the proliferation and use of nuclear weapons will lead to some results. The Minister for Foreign Affairs has outlined the initiatives taken by Norway, including: together with Germany, have taken place in NATO. Norway has been a clear voice also against the rocket shield – a different voice from that of the Bondevik government. We're ready for our resistance to the rocket shield, both because it can lead to upgrading in itself, and because it's a crazy use of resources in a world that has so many challenges in other fields. This will be clear to several NGOs at the current NATO meeting. There is therefore a need for debate and mobilization against NATO's nuclear strategy, the first-use doctrine and the crazy idea that nuclear weapons can lead to security. So to say that all states that have acquired nuclear weapons have pointed to existing arsenals as a basis for security. New states trying to get nuclear weapons respond to one threat with a new threat. The Commission for Weapons of Mass Destruction, led by Hans Blix, pointed out that the dynamics are frightening. As long as some countries have nuclear weapons, others will always want it. Therefore, it is important to work to change the first-use doctrine. It is important to revitalise work on the non-proliferation agreement and new disarmament initiatives. And it's important that the work on a convention that prohibits the use of nuclear weapons is started. In this work, it is also important to bring in the discussion on the withdrawal of the tactical weapons that the United States has placed in Europe, as the Minister for Foreign Affairs was also concerned. This will certainly be a long and hard work. It is not certain that Hans Blix will bring his grandchildren to that museum with the exhibition showing how the world has abolished nuclear weapons. But there is no alternative to this job. Someone's got to go ahead. Norway does, and Norway will continue to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2122	I would also like to thank the interpellant for raising a very important question, namely nuclear disarmament. The left's vision is a world free of nuclear weapons. In the meantime, we need to go in to achieve greater security for everyone at a lower level of armor than today. We want to see a strong UN in the driver's seat in the disarmament and non-proliferation area. More specifically, the International Atomic Energy Agency, the IAEA, which is the United Nations Security Council, should be strengthened and given sufficient resources to carry out its control tasks effectively. Unfortunately, disarmament has been given relatively little attention in recent years, many claim that it has come under the shadow of other major problems, such as terrorism and climate change. However, nuclear weapons now affect as much as before fundamental features of our own security. Following important progress in the area of disarmament in the 1990s, we saw a renewed arms race in the wake of the terrorist attacks against the United States on 11 September 2001. The challenge today is to get the disarmament going again. I miss an even wider popular commitment to nuclear weapons, which was an important driving force behind disarmament in the 1990s. No, nuclear weapons have been working successfully, and we need a lot more. I also agree with the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we need an active civil society in the fight against nuclear disarmament, just as we needed it in the processes that led to the ban on land mines and class weapons. The Interpellant refers to the NATO Summit in April 2009, which is to provide a Declaration on Alliance Security, with a view to developing a new strategic concept. This gives a good opportunity to launch a new course in the field of nuclear weapons and disarmament doctrines. The positive thing is that the new President of the United States, Barack Obama, has announced a strong willingness to promote disarmament, as several of my colleagues have mentioned. This is crucial, as the United States must go ahead and show leadership. Obama has also said that he will bet on dialogue and cooperation, which really promises well. But Russia is also an important player. In total, the United States and Russia have 95 pst. by the nuclear weapons arsenals of the world, as many have mentioned before me. A decisive step is therefore the renewal by the United States and Russia of the two-sided START agreement on strategic nuclear weapons, which is due to expire. One important prerequisite here is that trust between the United States and Russia is built up. The desire of the Obama administration for a new start — a ‘reset’, as they call it — in relations with Russia is a good starting point. Furthermore, the parties must agree on the rocket shield. I believe that this should be possible, as it appears to be an incomplete defence system aimed at an unfinished threat. In addition, outstanding problems related to Russia’s suspension of participation in the Conventional Powers Agreement in Europe – CFE – need to be addressed. Last but not least, it would be helpful if Russia failed to repeat the threat of placing medium-range rockets in Kaliningrad. As we recall, this was President Medvedev's welcome gift to Barack Obama as the newly elected president. The United States and Russia are not left alone. Since the Cold War, the list of nuclear powers has been extended. Nor should we forget the importance of Iran, North Korea and probably other states being able to obtain nuclear weapons within a relatively short time. In addition, the danger of nuclear weapons or fissile material coming into the hands of non-governmental actors and terrorists who have their own cruel agendas. The non-proliferation issue is therefore very important and should be emphasised. Without an effective non-proliferation regime, the importance of nuclear disarmament among the established nuclear powers will be weakened. Finally, I would like to point out that even though we face many challenges in the area of disarmament, I am optimistic and believe that the world can make new progress in the years to come. Also non-atomic countries such as Norway can play an important role as drivers. This applies not least in non-proliferation context. Norway has also played an important role in North-West Russia in cleaning up nuclear waste after the cold war.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2150	I would like to begin by thanking all the representatives who have taken part in the debate. In many ways, I think the summary is fairly straightforward, because there is considerable and large consensus among all the parties that have now taken part in the debate, that we are on our way and will push this towards a development and a vision that we will have a nuclear-free world. There have been different underscores and different references – that is the close perspective, it is the NATO meeting that is coming soon, it is the 2010 Supervisory Conference, and we all hope that this will lead us a few small steps further on the way. I just want to briefly refer to a little bit of what has been said and that points in the same direction. Marit Nybakk stressed that nuclear weapons are in a special position and require special attention from the Norwegian landfill, but also from international bodies. She also underlined hopes for the 2010 Supervisory Conference. Øyvind Waksdal of the Progress Party underlined that NATO can and should have a driving role. This is also agreed by the Christian People's Party. The representative Erna Solberg from the Right was concerned with the concept of ‘reciprocity’. Reciprocality is very important for the development towards a zero vision. I would also like to stress that if we are going somewhere, we are primarily dependent on having Russia and the United States with us, but also on strong pressure against the countries that are currently developing nuclear weapons. Ågot Valle from SV said it was «a question of life and death». Yes, it's actually a matter of life and death, not just for the individual, but for our globe. And then she underlined the important work of the volunteer organizations here, and I'd like to join in on the Rose of No to Atom Arms, which has held for a while. This has been a difficult topic. Finally, Anne Margrethe Larsen from the Left, who stressed that the IAEA has an important role, and that the IAEA needs to be strengthened with resources to control, so that we can feel confident that the reports we get from there are voting. Then we'll look forward to the close meetings that are coming, and we'll enjoy the results that we hope will come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2167	I would also like to reiterate the thank you to the inter-pellant and to those who have contributed to the debate on an important matter. Now the interpellant has summed up the debate well, and I'm joining that summary. There's been a lot of focus on NATO and the United States, and that was the starting point for the question. But I think we also need to focus on Russia, which has a significant arsenal close to our borders, and where there has been reason to ask security questions. I want to use this post to go through some of what was discussed between the two presidents, Medvedev and Obama. There is an important reading of the Joint Declaration. The aim is to reach a binding international agreement on strategic cuts to replace the START agreement. Such an agreement shall contribute to facilitating a successful Conference of Supervisors — NPT — in 2010. Provision is made for strengthening the IAEA, including its security arrangements, such as the additional protocol and full implementation of Security Resolution 1540 against Dissemination. The declaration underlines the importance of the entry into force of the termination agreement. The content underlines the need to reduce the use of high-rich uranium, etc. Iran and North Korea are being addressed, where the desirability of political negotiated solutions is being underlined. What is important here is that the two countries now take fully justified leadership responsibility to achieve a successful NPT – we cannot afford a defeat there, as last – and that the long-term goal of a world free of nuclear weapons is clear. This is what we're going to follow up with the U.S. authorities next week. In Norwegian terms, it is important that the cuts are as deep as possible and go beyond what is provided for in the Moscow Agreement on Strategic Reductions, which provides a ceiling of 1 700 to 2 200 outsourced strategic weapons. We believe that, at first, we can set a target of 1000 on either side of the road towards further reductions. Then we are pleased that a new agreement should be legally binding and have verification mechanisms. This is the case in the START agreement, but not in the so-called SORT agreement. The review of the IAEA and the probationary agreement is uplifting, especially the language here is leading towards what we want to see in the NPT. It represents a break with the steep attitude that we have seen in recent years, especially in the United States. As far as missile defence is concerned, there is one issue where there are still disagreements – and it is highlighted – but where there is also a dialogue that is important to include. I think it was useful to mention this, because this is an expression that the last few days have come to motion in an area where we now have to do what we can to make it also reflected in the way that NATO works and prioritises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2182	Case No. 4 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2196	Let me first point out that during this magnification period we have dealt with several similar or similar proposals. I would like to make it clear once again that the government parties and the Workers' Party are initially not against joint ownership in companies. The proposal by Jan Tore Sanner, Svein Flätten, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland and Torbjørn Hansen to strengthen employee participation opportunities in an enterprise is initially twofold. One part of the proposal is that the Stortinget asks the Government to present during spring 2009 a broad assessment of measures that can help several employees become co-owners in their own enterprise, in particular looking at ongoing processes in the EU and experiences from other countries that have favourable legislation for employees who want to buy shares in their own company. The second part of the proposal specifically states that Stortinget asks the Government to make proposals to increase the tax-free discount on the purchase of shares by employees in its own company and to assess the shift of the tax date for the benefit of the purchase of discounted shares from the date of purchase to the date of sale. The proposal from the Right is supported by the Progress Party, the Left and the Christian People's Party. The difference from the last one we considered a similar proposal, for approx. Three years ago, the Christian People's Party has now crept into the bourgeois fold. Whether it is developments in the United States and internationally in recent times that have led the Christian People's Party to support the proposal this time, I don't know, but it's probably being clarified by representatives of the Christian People's Party. What distinguishes other countries from Norway is that they have few trade unions, a low level of worker protection, few statutory labour rights, local wage negotiations instead of nationwide collective agreements, and a large low-paid sector with precarious jobs without career opportunities, with many part-time and temporary workers working at minimum tariffs. Furthermore, they have virtually no or weaker population, lower health insurance rights and weaker collective agreements that are not legally binding. The proposals are therefore, as I see it, primarily ideologically justified. Proposalers will provide more tax relief for people who have funds because this contributes to more private ownership and less professional rights. The left side of Norway has always had a different angle of incidence. We have ensured employee involvement in processes through representation in boards and business meetings, and through work environment laws, shareholder laws and other rights laws. At the same time, all employees and owners shall have the freedom of choice to decide for themselves whether to own or sell. In the areas of law, the right has been opposed to and opposed to the rights of employees. During the previous period, they demonstrated their view through decisions relating, for example, to: the environmental protection law. They weakened the influence of employees on the organisation of working time and the use of overtime and weakened the protection of employees. We have gone the opposite way in this period, because, in our opinion, these are key points for the success of a good employee strategy and the good development of the business. The right forces have gone against the Norwegian model, which ensures employee involvement on his own working day and his own reality. We also have a tradition in Norway of co-ownership by allowing workers to buy shares in their own businesses, and we have collective forms of ownership, such as housing and cooperatives – forms of ownership that have proven to be beneficial and tolerating changing and new times. Unfortunately, in such forms of ownership, the argumentation or support has not been equally intense from the right-wing parties. It is essential to look at non-taxable instruments to ensure the development of business and workers’ rights and participation. There are, of course, positive aspects of employee participation that should be mentioned. It can contribute to more distribution of power, and it can stimulate greater responsibility and interest among those working in the enterprise, depending on the size of the enterprise. It can stimulate longer-term thinking, as employees are in many cases more closely linked to businesses. So there are positive conditions because the employees are also owners in their own company. That is why it is also free of the individual, and therefore we already have a tax incentive that contributes to co-ownership. But ownership and profitable businesses are, of course, much more than tax havens. It is about framework conditions, market forces, innovation and not least about prospects. The government’s industrial policy facilitates the development of a forward-looking and innovative business throughout the country. We are concerned with good, stable, long-term framework conditions for businesses, entrepreneurs, employees and owners. We've filled the toolbox that the civilians emptied in the last period. We have guaranteed workers better rights, and we have put on the table several hundred billion in banking packages and action packages, including targeted tax reliefs. In the serious situation we are in now, the debate should go about tools for entrepreneurs, innovation and development. That's what's going to build the welfare society in the future, not more tax relief for those who already have a lot. All participants in society must be given the opportunity to influence their own everyday lives through different systems of representation and democracy. Of course, this also applies to partnership in your own company. It's a policy that the government parties want, and that will create what we in the South call the good life. With this, I recommend that Stortinget vote in favour of the majority vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2230	As the rapporteur has already said, earlier in this period we discussed a similar matter in the Financial Committee – spring 2006. Then I actually had the honour to be the case rapporteur and got to put myself well into the matter, which of course I have also done this time. The need for a broad assessment of measures that can help several employees become co-owners in their own enterprise has not diminished since then, on the contrary, both in view of the time we are in now and the trend we see in the rest of Europe and in the United States, which shows that Norway is lagging behind in this area, with the negative consequences it has had and will have for businesses in Norway. There are a lot of good reasons why more and better measures need to be considered to help more employees become joint owners in their own company. Firstly, if employees are co-owners of their own business, this will help to further share in the company's economic life and understand its significance. Secondly, state dominance in business is quite widespread, and it is unfortunate. It can create monopolies and concentration of power that are both economically inefficient and allow for undesirable use of power. We've also seen more examples of this in recent years. Third, we know that the state owns over 40 pst. of the values of Oslo Exchange. Individuals only own approx. 5 pst. of the values of Oslo Exchange. For comparison: In our neighbouring country Sweden is approx. 20 pst. of the values of the Stockholm Stock Exchange owned by individuals. Thus, the Norwegian State has an abnormally high proportion of ownership measured against comparable countries. While the ownership is approx. 40 pst. Here in Norway, the EU average is approximately zero. In Denmark, the state holding is less than 6 pst. In fact, the ownership of the Norwegian State arouses wonder internationally. Even the OECD has pointed out that state ownership in Norway is far too large, and the stimulation of private active ownership is far too weak compared to other countries. So a little bit of experience from other countries. Research and studies show that where there are good co-ownership arrangements in their own enterprise, this results in increased productivity – productivity increases by 20–33 pst. where employees have shares in their own enterprise – increased competitiveness, increased pay flexibility, reduced wage growth, increased innovation, increased loyalty to the company, improved team spirit among employees, increased motivation among employees, enhanced creativity and not least more jobs. There is also some reason why the EU wants more use of employee ownership schemes. But that doesn't make the socialist majority see the meaning of it. We have only received positive feedback from the hearing bodies in this case, and there is good reason to believe that both employers and employees will appreciate the introduction of even more incentives for employees to buy more shares in their own company. Who is against – can anyone tell me – except, of course, politicians from the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party? Otherwise it is a little interesting that when we dealt with this matter in the spring of 2006, the majority, consisting of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, proposed that the proposal be annexed to the Minutes. Well, about. Three years later, when it is even more important, in our view, to stimulate increased ownership in our own company, the same majority of people propose that the proposal be rejected. The comments of the red-green majority in the vote are one sentence: ‘The majority of the Committee, the members of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party, oppose the proposal.’ What's happened in the last three years that makes them even more opposed? I think that is quite defensive, little explanatory and little helpful. In conclusion, I would like to address the proposals that the Advance Party is promoting together with the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2261	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2264	It seemed to the case-rapporteur that he was tired, almost worn out, by dealing with as much as two proposals to stimulate ownership in one period of staggering. It's not us. We think it is more than ever necessary to try all the methods and use all the tools to promote activity and progress in the Norwegian business community. This proposal is precisely such a tool that can strengthen the ownership of employees, strengthen the working environment and competitiveness. Then I hear the case rapporteur calling on the financial crisis in the United States – that this is more for those who have the most from before, etc. Then I will give tribute to the Council of State for her reply to the Committee. At least she's not talking about outside things, although she's absolutely negative in her answer. She sticks to the issue, and the case concerns Norwegian companies, how to get an incentive for more employees to buy shares. The Council of State writes – and to the extent that it is also the case-rapporteur – that occupational health and safety legislation solves the problem of employee involvement. With all due respect, I think there is also another glow in the people who work around Norwegian businesses, than the one that occupational health and safety legislation can establish. It sets up the framework, and then we need to stimulate further. A few comments to the Council of State letter otherwise – the comments from the position I cannot comment on because they are absent. It is written that the purchase of shares at a discount can be treated as cash pay. That sounds weird. Of course, in smaller enterprises there is no trading market for such shares. Often there are also related trading clauses. The comparison with cash pay seems to me to be sought, perhaps also remote from reality for most companies for which this would be relevant. So to that, this increases the employee's risk. I don't think the income will be more or less dependent on whether you have ownership of the company to the extent that this is the case. It's the company's development that determines whether you really run a big risk or one, and you can just influence it even better both as owner and as employee. The fact that any assets should depend on the company's performance also sounds strange. It is true that if you have any wealth, maybe many would rather put it in, even if it was small, in their own job and could influence, rather than place it in securities, unit trusts and similar ones, which actually have done almost a million ordinary Norwegian workers. The wealth – and we have seen that in the last year – can also be subjected to fluctuations in the share prices. There is certainly no need to instruct the State Council, she is well aware of being politically responsible for that type of investment through the State pension fund – abroad, and is likely to follow this closely. I believe that if you wanted to reduce the risk of employees – and then I'm talking about those who are already involved in this type of scheme – you should at least be in favour of the last part of proposal No. 2, which is about to move the tax date from the date of purchase to the date of sale. It would actually be a help for those who are already in the scheme, when you think it is so unattractive.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2277	Owning your own business is very high in the Center Party. There are very many positive aspects to individual enterprises or enterprises where a person has few employees. However, in larger companies owning their own business is a far more demanding matter. We have a number of examples of either employees or suppliers of large enterprises acting in such a way that they become owners of the enterprise in which they work, or owners of the enterprise that buys their goods. Thus, in many cases, in a difficult dual situation, one is on the capital side at the same time as one is on the seller's side in the case of raw materials, or on the seller's side in the case of its own labour force – a demanding dilemma in many cases. But the main point of the Center Party is that we are very concerned that owning our own business has many advantages. We are very concerned that to the extent that an individual operates his own business, he can operate it as a seafarer, i.e. a seafarer owns his own resources. The size of the company has a great job of equalising the form of company tax and welfare in relation to those operating in the form of shareholders. If the Right is very concerned with ensuring ownership where one is going to have a large influence on one's own company, the form of a cooperative enterprise is more suitable than the form of a limited liability company, because there is one member, i.e. one owner, having one vote. It is also a form of company that has limited liability, so one has that part of the positive aspects of the form of shares in that one does not have to risk more than the capital that it has actually invested. However, as far as the form of partnership is concerned, the Right has consistently been, throughout history — and today, too — a strong opponent of what governments want to organise for the form of partnership, fiscal or regulatory. That's why we're dealing with the question we're dealing with here, namely tax-free discounts on employees' purchases of shares, i.e. joint ventures in limited liability companies. As everyone knows, public limited liability companies are such that their multiple shares, their multiple votes. The majority of the general meeting determines the choice of management, and management determines the strategy of the enterprise along with the representation of employees. On the right, there was no special initiative to bring employees into the management and management positions of the limited liability companies in their time. If you had been consistent, you should have shown another story at that point in the case of large companies with which we have a significant employee representation today. This topic is currently being reviewed historically. This is true of the lessor's democracy in the form of a corporation, and it has historically been discussed in many variants. There has been little use, either in Norway or internationally. Shares are in principle, as was said here, freely negotiable, and tax-stimulated share purchases in many cases lead to a premature sale. No trading clause has been proposed in the proposal. Therefore, the conclusion of the Center Party, which is the Government's conclusion, is that we are principled that employees are partners in their own enterprise, which is also organised as a limited liability company, but we do not naturally see it as a natural priority to further stimulate the tax incentives of employees' purchases of shares in their own enterprise.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2292	I understood that I was given a visit at the introductory part of the case-rapporteur that the Christian People's Party has changed its mind. Then it runs into my mind an expression and a definition of an old man. It's not meant to be in Klungland, but it's called that an old man is a person who's been thinking the thoughts he's been thinking. To put it straight, we've been thinking a little bit since the last time we dealt with a similar proposal, and we've acquired new knowledge, and we're actually going to vote differently this time. I understand that is quite unimaginable for Mr. Klungland to change his mind, but to say it like this, I think it's a bigger problem for him than for me. From the government parties, it is argued that you should be in principle against this, until you say that you do not want to further develop the existing system. The Minister of Finance wrote in his reply to the Committee in a commendable manner: «We have maintained a certain incentive for this method by allowing individual employees to receive a tax discount of up to NOK 1500 on the purchase of shares in their own company.» So you say it's going to last. That's okay, but then the point is that we're not talking about the principle anymore. We're talking about the rate we're going to have on this deduction, this discount. Then it becomes a little special, I think, when the case rapporteur talks about both the good life and targeted tax credits and all the good things this government has done, I understand: the good life is not to make sure that you get a discount on the purchase of shares in your own company. But you've, after all, been in favour of the principle. So there was a talk with big views, but I don't think the completely related to the government party actually thinks in this case, where the difference lies in the dosage, and not in principle.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2306	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 5th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2621]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2322	The Committee had proposed that the Committee should: 8:32 from the Christian People's Party on tax cuts for voluntary sector for treatment. The proposal includes several proposals. It is proposed to present a case on how to exempt the voluntary sector from the VAT burden linked to the purchase of goods and services on a permanent basis. It is a proposal to extend the VAT compensation scheme for the voluntary sector to become a universal right-driven scheme. There is a proposal for an increased limit on the payroll obligation and an increased limit on the employer’s obligation to pay taxes per year. employed and per year organisation, and there is a proposal for an increased framework for the right of deduction for gifts to non-governmental organisations. The Committee agrees in principle that the voluntary sector is of crucial importance to society. The same cross-political consensus can be found in the treatment of St.meld. No 39 for 2006-2007, Freedom for all, where there was unison agreement in the position that: ‘voluntaryness is a fundamental driver of social development, and it is a cornerstone of our democratic society’. [[...]] I do not know if it is the heading of this proposal on tax cuts that may have scared the government parties from going into the proposal to remove the tax burden. I'm assuming that they themselves will explain it in an excellent way. I have come to understand that some of the government parties, most recently the Central Party at their national meeting, have a completely different attitude from what is stated here, to improve the conditions of volunteering by removing the tax burden. I see little trace of the national meeting exposure when the party operates within the co-operation's coercive spell here in Stortinget. That is a pity, especially since the party's representatives in the Committee are usually very liberal about many social issues, and most often those that are not currently at the discretion of this House. In this context, let me also mention the so-called rapporteur's appeal, where half of the country's rapporteurs have signed a call to exempt voluntary organisations from VAT. Have the rapporteurs been misled in some way? Nope. However, they are so close to voluntary Norway in their daily work, so close to organisations and teams, that they see more clearly than many others the importance of lubrication in social machinery as the voluntary work done around the country. I'm not going to go into the majority's comments and reasons. I'm going to go a little further with the Right's positions, which are happily also the entire opposition's positions in the notes. The opposition is strong and united in this important matter, and we have many with us. Voluntary work in Norway now needs concrete action, not programme declarations on what may come next. The tax system is well-suited to improve the voluntary economy in such a way that organisations are strengthened by means which can be used by themselves, not by means of guided allocations and priorities. For us, it is not a problem that volunteering is organised in such a way that the state does not control the voluntary activity – on the contrary. Therefore, the removal of VAT is a good tool to achieve exactly what the organisations and we want. Exemptions from VAT on purchases of goods and services to the voluntary sector will be very striking. There is no reason in the Passover now that snowmobiles used for the rescue operations in the Easter mountain – we hope it will not be too many of them, but still – will be 25 pst. more expensive when there is a Red Cross that is out and running than when the hotel snowmobile is used. It is a paradox that traders and municipalities with public service output are deducted from VAT on their purchases, while organisations based on voluntary efforts and collected funds are required to pay 25 pst. more for their purchases. Therefore, such a proposal as this will make good and simple and unbureaucratic to the organisations. But it's urgent. This has been promised for a long time – not least in its Declaration of Accession, the Government has been until now. And it is precisely this lack of follow-up that now there is also a need to possibly extend the current VAT refund scheme for services to a rights-driven, general VAT compensation scheme covering both goods and services. Therefore, such a proposal is also made in the vote. Changes in VAT legislation require the existence of a register of voluntary activities that works, and not least that this register sets out clear criteria for what is a Community voluntary activity that could be registered in order to benefit from the scheme. Through a number of budgetary procedures, an overall opposition has made several proposals to raise the limits of payroll obligations and the obligation to pay employers' contributions. Voluntary activities, especially in the field of sport, are currently impossible to operate without paid professional assistance. With low limits on fees and reporting, many smaller teams and associations end up working unnecessarily and timelessly to satisfy bureaucratic arrangements instead of working on the voluntary work on which they really want to spend their time. Under the previous government, we had a lot of attention to stimulate giving gifts to non-governmental organisations, and several increases in the amount limits for tax deductions were made. In her reply to the Committee, the Minister of Finance wrote that she wanted more government governance and control of the measures to be supported by public funds. And she doesn't want any exceptions in the tax law. Now it is to say that this exception has existed for a long time. We're also talking about dosages here. This has stimulated significant gifts that have been important for volunteering. This is not the only exception to the general rule that all income should be taxed. I do not understand this, but I am used to the concern of the Minister of Finance that mediated donors should channel public funds to his private preferences. For the Right, we're not worried about the social benefits of the winged, and we're very rarely looking for suspicious thoughts with such behavior. We also see that if more people, both middle-minded and, for that matter, were to contribute gifts to voluntary work, it is positive, not negative, as I allow myself to perceive the Minister of Finance in his letter to the Committee. I think it is good that the state can encourage good moral conduct. We need that, even in these times. In this way, perhaps even more people will have their eyes on the importance of this kind of contribution. Finally, I address the proposals that the Right with other parties promote in this setting, and recommend them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2349	The representative of the Svein Fleet has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2352	The fact that so many individuals choose to use their precious leisure time for work in teams and associations, I think we should praise. It's really quite amazing that, despite the fact that we've built the world's most comprehensive welfare state with liberal welfare systems, at least from an international perspective, we've also managed to become world champions of volunteering. That is why I say that specialist leaders, assistants, cordials, sports trainers and everyone else who is active in voluntary work in Norway are in their full right to demand greater contributions and greater recognition for their efforts from the public. I believe that the Government has been providing a new gift in the field of voluntary policy, and a comprehensive report has been presented. When the fleet calls for concrete action and not programme declarations, I agree with that, but unlike many other large-scale announcements submitted by previous governments, the government has also fulfilled the concrete promises made by the big business message. When we debate the proposals that are on the table here, it's a little funny that the opposition has voted against several of the proposals for strengthening the area of volunteering that the Government has set up, but leave it at this point. Let me take a few examples: NOK 1 billion has been added to the table as a substitute for lost slot machine revenue for the years 2008 and 2009. We introduced a grass root fraction, so that people who tap, can now choose to give 5 pst. the turnover of the association or association of which you wish. I myself very much enjoy opening the series the next weekend at home in Mjøndalen, i.e. for Mjøndalen Sports team. There they now say that many have registered, and in a very short time they have received 60 000 kroner to go to voluntary activity in the Mjøndalen Sports team – an amazingly accurate and beautiful arrangement. We've set up volunteer registers. We have increased the limits of the reporting obligation for the employer's fee and the obligation to pay the turnover, and not least: while the previous government would remove the money from the Freefonds, the best and most accurate order we have for activities for children and young people, the red-green government has stepped up its support for this important work. In addition to the concrete strengthening of the field, we have announced in the 2009 State budget that the Government is ready to return to the 2010 budget with a new billion. It also says that we haven't decided how to give that money or what kind of support you have. But the billion will come into place. Here we are at the heart of what I see is the main proposal, and there are a lot of volunteers now talking about: the proposal for a zero rate or VAT exemption for the voluntary sector. Such exemption may be one way of supporting voluntary work. For my part, however, and for the Labour Party, I must say that I am not sure and convinced that this is the right method. Let me just bring you some short counter-conceptions. Firstly, I believe that there should be particular good reasons to do something about what is the pillar of the welfare society, namely the VAT system. It's a system you have in a lot of countries. In Norway, it is the bearer of public welfare goods. For example: top taxes or taxes on wealth amounting to approx. 13 billion kroner each for the welfare state of Norway, we get over 200 billion kroner from the VAT system, which is a fissure layer and a very easy way to generate income for the community. I'm not saying you're not going to do anything about it, but I'm saying you're going to have very good reasons to hollow out the system that provides income for the community. The second is that in order to achieve a zero rate with full deductibility for the voluntary sector, voluntary teams and organisations are most likely to have to enter the VAT staff. It's not just a dance of roses. It's a system designed for professional actors, i.e. business. It is quite clear that by entering the mandate you will at least be given greater use, greater criminal liability and not least a good deal of bureaucracy. I'm not so worried about the Red Cross, the People's Aid or other big, national organizations that have people to help themselves, and economic muscles to deal with this. But I'm worried that small choirs, small cookers, small sports teams are not quite aware of what you're going into if you're going into the VAT crew. I'm not saying that it's impossible, but at least I think it's an important counter-conception to bring with me. Although I've explained some of the counter-conceptions, we're going to be pragmatic when we want to provide increased support for the voluntary sector, because it's a fantastic work going on all over the country, and it needs recognition. But in any case, I believe that the government that is now sitting, with a majority behind it in the United Kingdom, has nothing to be ashamed of when it comes to supporting this important sector in Norway. What other governments have managed to get a billion - already in place - that have committed themselves to a new billion. Then, in these days, we are discussing internally both in government and in big business how this support is to be set up. The 2010 state budget provides the answer. The voluntary nature has itself estimated that a VAT exemption for the sector will amount to approximately 50 %. One billion kroner. We're willing to meet that claim for heads. We ask for understanding that you have to be absolutely sure of what you do when you have to choose an instrument for setting up such a support. At least I am absolutely sure that we will be able to find a good solution to the problem of volunteering, which is unbureaucratic, and which gives an important recognition to a fantastic voluntary work going on in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2376	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2379	I understand that the representative Micaelsen is not quite sure how to set this up, but he had many good counter-conceptions about using the VAT system. I have one question -- actually, a little rain example, but it's not very complicated. The Mica says that there are particularly good reasons to do something about the public welfare pillar, so do something about the VAT system. Now we know that deducting VAT would have cost the state $1 billion. It would decrease a billion dollars on the carrybar. So the mica says he's also going to spend $1 billion. I'm assuming it goes off the same carrybar. Does he think that it is practical to make a special difference to the other welfare?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2386	No, there is no practical difference in such an approach. But there's an important difference here, and that's that we, who are elected by the people to represent some electoral groups here in the National Assembly, are also set to be able to prioritise between different purposes. If you want to step up support for the voluntary sector, and believe that it is an important group that deserves recognition in today's society, and say that you, for example, are doing so. If you would like to support it with DKK 1 billion, it is more straightforward to put the proposal on the table here in the Grand Duchy, set it up for all other good purposes – because there is still a great deal of still, unfortunately, even in the welfare state of Norway – and have an assessment and make a decision. There is a significant difference in the sense that politicians who are set to rule by the people can also be in assessing this. We're taking that option away from us by hollowing out the VAT system. It's an important counter-conception. At least I think so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2391	We must then note that the Labour Party's spokesperson here probably knows better what Freedom Norway needs than what a collective Freedom Norway itself believes is the most important thing for them. It actually doesn't surprise me much, with the composition that this government has. But I want to address something else that the Micasen was in, namely that there should be a support of NOK 1 billion – he said in 2010, and the letter from the Council of State says it over a few years. Well, we can figure that out. In addition, I have now been in at least two debates with representatives from the Central Party who categorically say that the Government is working on exemption from VAT for non-governmental organisations. So what's the view of the majority government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2400	The views of the majority government and the majority parties are very clearly described in the comments. It's that we're willing to step up support for the voluntary sector – and it's true that I was a bit unprecise – with $1 billion over a few years. But the level is $1 billion over a few years. Then we haven't concluded how to set up such a kind of support. For example: that the Central Party itself has chosen to bring this matter forward at its national meeting, which is an important political workshop that makes visible what you want to bet on in the years ahead, so I believe that it has the Central Party's full right to. I guess there are also some issues Christian People's Party and the other opposition parties are going to disagree very much after the national meeting season in the opposition parties is over. And unlike the opposition parties, we have a majority government we want to win the 2009 elections, while the opposition parties still agree very little. So I'm absolutely sure we're going to be able to find a good solution that the volunteer itself will be very happy with when the result is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2407	The representative, Mikalsen, uses, inter alia: the argument that VAT staff numbers and VAT legislation are very complicated and difficult to apply to non-profit organisations. Therefore, non-profit organisations may still pay 25 pst. VAT – i.e. because they will have problems getting involved in legislation. I would like to ask a question to the representative of Ms Mikelsen. If this legislation is so complicated and difficult to understand, it may also be thought that it is a challenge for small businesses already today. Should it not then be considered to simplify the legislation, make it simpler, more understandable and transparent so that even non-profit organisations can get under it and small businesses can get a simpler everyday life?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2415	I have had conversations with many representatives from voluntary teams and organisations. Let me do an example. I have a father who's active in the spear. He laughed at me because he had to pay VAT when he was going to buy sleeping bags for the kids. I understand that very much, but I don't see him or anyone else as necessarily the VAT they want to live for. What they're looking for, what the whole volunteer is crying for, is increased free money, more money for activity. And then VAT becomes a picture that you have too little of it, and I totally agree with that. The mom system can clearly be easier, and we're going to work on it continuously, but this is a system that is the support of the welfare state, and which requires very good reasons for making major changes. These include: a tax professor who has estimated that only being in the number of VAT staff is a cost of NOK 10000 to NOK 20 000 for a company or a voluntary team or an organisation. Yes, it is expensive to run a shop in Norway, but there are also great opportunities if you succeed. That is why we have organised what we have done in Norway, with quite comprehensive welfare measures for all, while everyone is involved and contributing with their things.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2424	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2427	Now a part of this debate has already been said, both from the case-speaker and from the representative, Ms Mikalsen. This suggests that there is a broad consensus that non-profits make a great and necessary effort in a range of areas. Non-profits save public for huge sums. Only the Red Cross in Norway has approx. 320 auxiliary corps consisting of approx. 12 900 members, and they carried out in 2008 approx. 700 rescue operations. To perform these rescue operations, of course, the Red Cross and other non-profit organisations depend on good framework conditions, so that one can also have satisfactory equipment. Now there are many organizations that experience it as untimely, which the case-speaker was also concerned with, that one has to pay 25 pst. VAT, e.g. one has to pay 25 pst. more for snowmobiles and equipment other than private enterprises, as well as municipalities, have to pay. It feels unfair to many. I have also received feedback that it also feels daunting. Now the representative Micaelsen had a number of arguments for why he was negative to this. It could be difficult for non-profit organisations to get involved in the VAT code, and then it was the problem with the VAT number. I think that a start at the wrong end if this VAT code is so complicated that it costs NOK 10 000 to NOK 20 000 for each company. There should be room for simplification, so that private enterprises too can get better out, and that non-profit organisations can enter the VAT staff so that they can eliminate VAT. It will be an important contribution. I'm also quite sure that the whole community will focus on it. The representative Mikalsen had a lot of great words and visions about this. I think what's important in the future is that one has to show action. It was shown that Norway is the world champion of volunteering and that there is a lot of social work done by voluntary organizations. It is important that we prepare and encourage them to have a good framework so that they can continue – and perhaps increase – this effort. So now it's time for action, and that's why there's an overall opposition that comes with a four-point proposal. I understand that when it applies to the first two points, which are subject to VAT exemptions for both goods and services, there is a certain movement, a certain possibility that something might happen, perhaps in the 2010 budget, perhaps later, but that at least there will be something about it in the 2010 budget. What the conclusion is, it'll show up. When it comes to the other points, that there should be an increased limit on both wage reporting and employers’ fees, it seems more negative, and also when there is an increased limit on gifts with tax deductions. There also seems to be a very negative government party. I think it's sad, but of course it's not that much to do with as long as we have the majority that we have on Stortinget. In any case, it is positive that there is agreement that non-profits do a good, socially beneficial work. Then I think it's a pity that one can't be any more concrete when it comes to improving the framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2444	Let me first thank the rapporteur for very good work on this matter. Some would argue that bringing the whole opposition together in common notes and suggestions is not so bad. Thank you for that, Mr. Fleet. It is also not a small matter that you agree on. For me, there's actually one thing where there's going to be some ideological dividing lines. The question is whether it is the government through its budgets and its mild gifts that is to govern Freedom Norway, or whether it is more right for the voluntary to have funds for what they actually want. The representative Micaelsen described the added-value system as a kind of monster in which the volunteer organisations should, to a large extent, take care to get involved. Obviously, if the arrangement here is that you have to defend the system and not the system to serve, you can see it that way. But the Christian People's Party chooses to see it from a slightly different angle: Is it reasonable that the volunteer organizations pay the state 25 pst. extra for voluntary work goods and services? We answer no to that question – and that is what this matter is primarily about. I have registered that the Central Party agrees with the proposal. Yesterday, I was in debate with the new Vice-President of the Central Party. He was crystal clear that it was this government that actually worked on, but one should have a robust proposal when it came to ensuring that the volunteer would not pay VAT. The representative Trond Lode, who I see is here in the hall, answered the evening post yesterday to the question of why you voted against something you really were in favour of: ‘Because the Government is already working on the matter.’ So the thing is, voluntary organizations don't have to pay VAT. Here, however, the case rapporteur for the government parties, Mr. Torgeir Mikalsen, has now been very clear: nothing is decided in this matter – in no way. The central party, well, they have adopted this at the national meeting, but besides that, the government parties have not agreed on anything. But the central party outside says that the government comes to a conclusion every moment that means that the voluntary organizations are not to pay VAT. That's what I call a kind of double communication that's on a very high level. It's true, as Torgeir Micaelsen says, there's an infinite number of people who provide an incredible amount of volunteering in Norway. I think we fully agree to commend the efforts made. It had become a poor society without their efforts and what the volunteer organizations stand for. Even if we have a welfare state – or welfare society, which I think sounds a little bit better in the ears of the Christian People's Party – a welfare society will never be able to replace the glow, the idealism and the human qualities of the voluntary organizations. For us, a clear consequence of this is to ensure that the voluntary organisations have more free resources, so that they can prioritise what they think is right to prioritise, do not have to seek project support from A to Å in all departments and municipalities and thus, in effect, the management of activities to a great extent, too much. If you were present at the hearing with many non-governmental organisations, there was a repetition that more and more of the support goes through projects that actually run the organisations. It's a dangerous road. That is why there is also something ideological in the answer given by the Minister of Finance to the Christian People's Party on this proposal. It goes on the question of gift deductions. The Minister of Finance writes in response to why it is not appropriate to increase the threshold: ‘Public governance and control of the measures and objectives to be supported by public funds is also desirable.’ That's where the cat comes out of the bag. It is not appropriate for this government to have the voluntary organisations themselves, for example: by means of a tax deduction, they receive increased resources from which they can freely determine. No, it is much better for the State – with a large S – to decide who will get the money and how much. Yes, here there is a clear political difference between this government and the opposition. At least I like one thing. It is that we can see that there will be a different majority – regardless of the constellations – this, this position, will fall after September. And if the Central Party looks a little closer through the answers given by the Minister of Finance, I really don't think they can agree to that either. This is one thing that engages many, and rightly so. I think it's actually just a matter of time before the case is going to go through, because it's so good in itself, and because it provides more justice in the system, which we're all so busy with, but we're not supposed to defend for the system's own sake -- we're going to make sure that the system is managed for the benefit of the individual citizen and civil society. I strongly recommend the proposal that has been put forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2476	Voluntary organisations have an outstanding activity in Norway. They do a very valuable job, and throughout the history of the Center Party, we've been very supportive about it, because a both develops community between people and does a great job for other people. Regardless of the state of public welfare, a strong voluntary sector is needed – a further development and a strengthening of the voluntary sector. It's one of the highest and best we have to point to in Norway. Government is very positive to the voluntary sector and has shown it in practical policy. And the government has said, and the government parties have written in this setting, that there should be an escalation of this stimulus. Stimulation and escalation shall take place in relation to choirs, sports teams, the Red Cross – this in order to follow the government statement. The government is working closely on the matter to use the most appropriate instruments to support the voluntary sector. This discussion and this setting do not go very thoroughly and operationally into the balances and challenges we face. I had expected that the opposition would have been far more operational in its proposal and presented something that shows the dilemmas that are and the obligations that have to be fulfilled here by those who will be entitled to a public stimulus for their activity. This is a demanding and difficult job. It concerns a number of themes in relation to many neighbouring activities. And the practical design of the further stimulation of the voluntary sector with which the government will come is not yet clarified. It's true, as many people have said, and which are present in the media, that the Central Party has had its national meeting and made its decisions, which the representative Micaelsen agreed to, and made visible where we stand, in the same way that other parties make visible where they stand. In our opinion, it is in favour of the voluntary sector being fully exempt from VAT for the purchase of goods and services. Here, a very important condition is met, namely that the organisations must be registered in a category of the Register of Freedoms agreed by both the State and the voluntary nature to grant the right to VAT exemption. In the same way as today, the state does not distribute incentives to the voluntary sector without it being to defined organisations for the purpose of being particularly socially viable. So it's based on the fundamental idea: Do your duty, demand your right! And the community's support shall go to the most deserving organisations, not to commercial activities organised as volunteers. Just in conclusion to the Christian People's Party: the centre party is, of course, completely in agreement with the fact that free resources are absolutely central, and I think it is a full government that is behind it. The distribution of these free resources, to use that concept, can be done in different ways, and I think there is also a broad understanding in the Government that there is currently too much project support for the voluntary sector, and too little framework incentive so that there is a voluntary sector of seafarer that defines what is most important in the situation in which the local team, for example, stands.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2489	The President has reason to believe that a "full government" was not meant to be a full government, but rather a collective government – that it should be interpreted that way. It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2494	I am not going to decide on either the integrity of the government or what may have been at the Central Party's national meeting, but when the representative Lundtägen only makes a statement in this post saying that he is in order to remove the VAT on purchases for voluntary organisations, and instead blames the opposition that has not been operating in this case – that we have not investigated this, and that we have not mentioned the Voluntary Register – then I will ask the representative Lundtägen to read the proposal, where we are just asking the Government to look at this. We have also said that the Voluntary Register must be in place – it is stated in our comments. Then my question to Lundtigen is: Will he and the Central Party now, after the national meeting, and after this matter, do something so that this can be done, instead of blaming the opposition here in Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2499	I can assure the representative Fleet that the Central Party will do something, have done something and will further develop our view on this matter, because it has top priority. I did not blame anyone in my post, and it was not in a petition I presented what is the Central Party's national meeting decision. I just pointed out that what the opposition has written here is far from being thorough enough to indicate the rights and obligations of the organisations that will be involved in this matter. This is a document from the opposition that I think should have been considerably better, but it is the opposition's case how a form of its proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2504	What was thought to be a clear decision from the Central Party National Assembly is hardly so clear after this debate, because there were many counter-conceptions in the contributions of the representative Lundtigen. Among other things, he said: Finally, the Centre Party will further develop its view on this matter. In fact, it's in quite a contrast to what the Central Party's own national meeting said: we want the tax off voluntary work. That's what we're going to do,' said party leader Navarsete. - That's it. I want to ask the representative Lundtigen a very important, fundamental question. In the letter of reply from the Minister of Finance on gift deductions, it states: ‘Public governance and control of the measures and objectives to be supported by public funds is also desirable.’ Is this a principleal attitude to which the Center Party subscribes?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2516	I have to say I am surprised at the Christian People's Party when one here interprets my post as containing many counter-conceptions against the Central Party's national meeting decision. Then I must have expressed myself unusually unclear. That's not the case. The gift voucher has been introduced and will be passed. The discussion is about whether to change it so that it involves greater amounts. So there's no fundamental question at that point. As far as public governance and control are concerned, the view of the Centre is, as I said here, that a wish to provide voluntary sector with funds that can be made available according to the needs of the voluntary sector, but those who benefit from this benefit are organisations with the type of activity agreed by the voluntary sector and the state under that legislation. That's the way it has to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2525	Listening to Lundtigen's main post was almost like hearing someone sitting in a boat with the trailer engine on full gas to get in from deep water. Because at least there is no doubt that the Senterpartiet and Lundtägen are on deep water in this matter. And I think it's very sad for all the volunteer teams and organizations that last weekend experienced the head of the Senter Party say clearly that we should now ensure that they are subject to VAT exemptions. Because volunteering was important, it was important to remove VAT. Today, we experience that the majority are moving because the Center Party does not support the opposition in this important matter for which the Center Party is said to be in favour. Can Lundtägen then guarantee that in a future government debate before the 2010 budget, the Senterpartiet does not give this case on the boat, that this is not an issue that can be negotiated away? Will the Lundtigen and the Zenterpartie guarantee that the VAT exemption will now be included in the budget for 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2533	The head of the Central Party has, through the national meeting, cancelled the course for the Centre Party. This is the case with us, as with any other party, in the case of the decisions that are taken. The centre party is a driving force in its efforts to improve the situation of the voluntary sector. And we're going to keep doing that. The Central Party is working with the Government to clarify one in this area before the summer, so that one can realize what is stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, namely that the voluntary sector will have a significantly better situation when the government period that we are now in goes out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2540	No more words have been asked for a line.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2543	Firstly, I have to say that what brings together the Stortinge today is that all speakers have started by stressing the importance of voluntary work in Norway. And our government has taken many steps that have made it easier to do voluntary work. We've done tax evasion. There is no finance minister who has done so much taxing to the voluntary sector as I have done, and who has simplified the daily lives of the trashers around the limit of the employer's fee, and such things that you are struggling with when you run small local organisations, sports teams, or whatever it may be. And we've set up with significant funds because many organizations failed when they lost their automatic receipts. And then we have one billion more. We have also signaled very clearly that we want to step up support for the voluntary sector with the voluntary sector saying is the sum of what they pay in VAT, which is DKK 1 billion, a little over time. So the question now is, how do we do it in such a way that we don't undermine the entire VAT system, make a lot of bureaucracy, but actually manage to make it a strengthening of the voluntary sector? Then I thought I'd do something as unusual as invite the Storting to come with some advice along the way, and invite you to join in solving some of the dilemmas you're facing. Firstly, I wonder whether opposition and position agree that what we are talking about in this context is an increase in support for the voluntary sector of about DKK 1 billion – whether it is in deduction of a fee or in another form – i.e. that the amount of the support we are talking about is approximately. One billion kroner. I have heard that some from different parties in the opposition have talked about any VAT compensation being compensated for other types of support to the voluntary sector. So what I think we first have to answer is: is $1 billion going to volunteer in addition to the support that the voluntary sector receives – which the government parties believe – or does that billion replace any of what it receives? Because if we can agree on what kind of magnitude we're talking about here, it's very interesting for volunteer Norway. So some of the dilemmas we're in. I believe that there is a broad consensus in the UK that support for voluntary Norway should be as unbureaucratic as possible. I also expect that many in the room themselves have experience in doing local, voluntary work, and know that the great heroes of the local volunteer work are of course all those who make up, but perhaps especially those who have the accounts at the kitchen table in the evening and wonder how to get a relatively simple account to go together. If you introduce $1 billion in support of volunteering through a zero rate in the VAT system, all small organisations will also be subject to VAT. Then it's right that the representative Micasen was in here: to that it follows a lot of obligations. There is a criminal liability for breaches of VAT rules, which means that the vast majority of small organisations will need help in carrying out those accounts. I'm assuming that it's not the intention of the opposition, and that you agree that you want an unbureaucratic system to get increased support of about DKK 1 billion for volunteering. Okay. Then there's one way to do it, and that's to give reimbursement directly for what you pay in VAT, whether it's goods or services. Then the next question is, where are the limits of this going? For if the extent of the activities of voluntary Norway is taken as a basis, this may be the case. Today, we're talking about $1 billion. But if you don't make any limitations on it, you can easily see that you give tax exemptions to a much larger extent than everyone thought when you introduced it, for example. by the fact that different voluntary organisations on behalf of their members go to the purchase of goods or services, which are then resold with a small profit, avoiding VAT – it could be travel, it could be sports equipment, it could be anything. Without a limit, it is fully legal, but probably not the intention of the proposers. Then is the next question – my third question to the opposition: How do you find a reasonable limit to that? I do not expect that the intention is that more players in voluntary Norway should be able to see that there are some possibilities that go far beyond what will be VAT compensation today. Now no one has to accuse me of suspecting volunteering or anything. Without any limitations, that would be fully legitimate. If anyone has any advice on how to do this, I'd be happy to accept it. Here are significant challenges in how this is to be implemented in practice. But if the opposition and position agree that what we're talking about is a stepping up of support for voluntary Norway, net, at the top of what is, at about. One billion kroner, if we agree that this is going to happen as unbureaucratic as possible, so that even small teams and organisations can distribute that billion without having to pay a lot of money to access any of that billion, and if we agree not to make rules that lead to VAT exemptions for a lot of activities that are currently not part of the volunteer's work, we have actually come quite far on the way, because then there are only questions about how we can arrange this. So just finally, what's VAT? VAT is what the end-user pays. The final user pays VAT – 25 pst. That means that those who are guests of a hotel pay the VAT. This means that the voluntary sector, because they are the end-users and the last ones, does not sell on and take VAT of the ones they sell to. Because if the voluntary sector sells a sausage to someone, they don't take VAT. They therefore pay VAT. I think I get – and I'm sure all the finance ministers, they've probably gotten through history – three-four-five proposals, it might have been an exaggeration, but one or two in a week, about good purposes that should drop VAT, whether it's environmental investment or cancer medicine, or it's a lot of societal tasks, important things, which you think it's unfair to pay VAT on. There are good arguments for each and every one of them, but it is still that the sum of saying yes to everyone is a significantly slimmer common fund and less to all. This was really just to invite the opposition in to give some advice along the way. If they agree with the issues that I have now extended to the Storting, I would like to accept some advice, because voluntary work and the way we can support the job that many do after a long working day for the young people of others and their own, for their own pleasure – let's now remember that it is a very driving force also that someone needs one, and that one is useful and beneficial to society – if there is agreement that that business should be strengthened by DKK 1 billion net, that it should happen unbureaucratic, and that it should happen in such a way that it hits the business that is today, and not a lot of other business that was not intended, we have come quite a long way on the way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2575	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2578	I record that the Minister of Finance is trying to problem – or perhaps better – talk away from what matters. The minority proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case on how to exempt the voluntary sector from the VAT burden linked to the purchase of goods and services on a permanent basis and to assess the speed with which such a permanent scheme can be implemented.’ It's possible I'm a little slow, but what's really unclear about asking the government to investigate this? Why does the Minister of Finance have to come to the main hall and ask us to specify more what we want to know? That is exactly what we are asking the Ministry of Finance, with the staff of the Ministry of Finance, investigating. What's the problem?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2588	I register that Tybring-Gjedde wants me to sit forever. I would have thought that the opposition who is so proud that it has gathered on common remarks for once, has also thought of some concrete thoughts about how they have intended to implement a matter so important to many, many people who are engaged in voluntary work every single day, for which the opposition is out and flagged, but without saying how they have actually intended to implement it. I had actually expected to have some concrete suggestions on how to define this, about what you talk about in sum, and that you had a reasonable plan for how to implement it when you're so tall and dark.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2595	Both the representative Lundtigen and now the Council of State have wanted more investigations from the opposition. We probably don't have the big apparatus for that, at least not until we get to the harvest. Then it's possible that we can do something about it. I think the Council of State is putting this matter a little wild when she wants to have stated an amount from the opposition. What we are talking about here is that voluntary organisations should have the freedom contained in VAT refunds. I think I'll ask the Council of State a technical question. In the hall here it's said from the Center Party that they want this arrangement, and from the Micasen that he might want it. Does the Council of State feel that it is more difficult for thousands of small businesses in the country, often with perhaps one employee, to deal with VAT legislation than it will be for organisations organised through the Register of Freedoms?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2604	Yes, I think it is quite demanding to deal with the VAT register. We have to remember that around the country there are a lot of small, voluntary organisations that don't have a single employee, that carry out all this in their spare time, and that to comply with what is today's law, they will need professional help. However, there is only one way to implement VAT compensation, namely to introduce a zero rate. Another way to think about it is you get back what you paid in VAT. But the opposite is that if you don't make boundaries that make sense, you open a bar door and make a lot of activity that goes far beyond the volunteer in Norway today can get tax exemptions. Otherwise, I have to say that if it is to be on the wrong track to talk about what the government is in favour of, is to increase the support for volunteering by NOK 1 billion, and the opposition is unable to say what we're talking about in dollars and ears, I put a question mark on the commitment to volunteering.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2611	I notice basically that every time the Council of State feels a little shivering, it is high and dark that is being pulled forward. Then you've kind of placed the thing where it really belongs, I see. I think the matter is a little too important for that. I think it is particularly important that the Council of State asks questions about the involvement of the voluntary sector. I'm actually tempted – if you start at that gallie first – to ask why the exposure is so great for a system and not for those that the system is supposed to serve, in this context VAT. In fact, the Council of State has refused to investigate this properly. Coming now and asking for opposition advice is mildly said specifically. We have not seen one attempt by the majority parties to meet something or to ask for a consultation or to join in on common comments. So my question is, is it that the Council of State has, in reality, removed this possibility of compensating the voluntary organizations? Is that what's behind it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2618	No, it's not. That's exactly what it says in this case, that's exactly what we're talking about, and I've also invited the opposition to participate in some of the dilemmas you're in, in terms of how to design and transfer to voluntary Norway a support to an extent that goes about what they're paying in VAT today. There are a lot of dilemmas. It's not hard to see that it's going to be challenges. It's going to be for any government. I have to repeat that I think it is strange that the opposition does not have an approximate, common perception of what they believe the support for voluntary Norway should be increased by. It's not in the comments from the opposition. There are no comments from the opposition on what they believe to be the scope of that support or on whether there are any challenges to demarcation. If we agree that it is approx. One billion kroner, if we agree that it's going to be unbureaucratic, and that there must be some constraints there, we've come a very long way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2625	I am very surprised and provoked by the fact that the government has led the Freewill of Norway behind the light. At the voluntary conference, the Prime Minister expressed expectations that something would happen at the rate of VAT on voluntary work. But the reality is that when the selection went down, it prevented a man from finding out what this would lead to. When the Christian People's Party has taken matters up on the Stortinget and e.g. The Ministry of Finance asked what it would cost with zero rates and various rates, and the Ministry has not been able to answer that, the least government could contribute to a proper settlement of this. But they've trained it and said that one should rather give one billion dollars in extra support and then control it, instead of listening to what the volunteer sector itself wants. Why doesn't the government want it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2631	Yes, but we do. It's the volunteers themselves who say that $1 billion is approximately what they pay today in value added tax. They argue, of course, that they want to use most of what they have of incomes and forces, of the voluntary efforts they make through their organization, and I have a great understanding of that. The question is then: how is it reasonable to support voluntary Norway with DKK 1 billion in such a way that we do not get into difficult balances with other considerations? And those considerations have all the parties -- so does the opposition. I believe that the Christian People's Party does not want small, local organisations to sit and keep VAT accounts in the evening over the kitchen table, and that it should be unbureaucratic. I expect that you do not want to create a system of VAT compensation that is such that it opens a door for activities that voluntary organisations can then start with and that would be fully legitimate. There are some dilemmas about how to design this. I have invited Stortinget to join in and discuss that. I find it strange that the opposition has no further answers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2636	No more words have been asked for a line. The President will propose that the speakers who will be given the floor now have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2641	If we peel away difficult words and expressions, the reality is that the voluntary sector currently has an extra cost of 25 pst. when they buy goods and services. It's called VAT, but it's actually a tax on voluntary work, and it's unfair. For the nth time, I object to a good VAT refund scheme by the Ministry of Finance. Different compensation schemes have been tried out over time, and every time it still has up to date with bureaucratic and little accurate arrangements. Therefore, the voluntary sector is asking for entry into the VAT register – for zero rate. It does it neatly, it's boring, and it's a code to stick to. And it's very good to create a simple reporting system for small businesses. The Christian People's Party has ours, is, and will be crystal clear that this unimaginable treasure of voluntary work must be removed. There is no room at home for many, many hours of voluntary work and effort to disappear in the state register. Norway has under 5 million inhabitants, but voluntary teams and associations have over 11 million members. Practically every Northman is involved in volunteering, and many are part of many organizations. As far as I'm concerned from Soria Moria, there was talk of full VAT exemptions for our 150,000 volunteer organizations. Nothing has happened. Last weekend, the Senterpartie would remove VAT for voluntary teams and organisations. Today, they will vote against the removal of VAT for voluntary teams and organisations. I understand that people are confused by this. Voluntary teams and organisations carry out invaluable and irreplaceable community work and a social effort. Voluntary teams and organisations are quick to obtain VAT exemptions. They need more. It doesn't just help with honest mentions, empty words, and airy promises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2656	The minister said that the volunteer said it was about approx. One billion dollars, and that's the amount that the Minister of Finance is sticking to. Then it can not be very difficult for Halvorsen and the bureaucrats in the Ministry of Finance to make a simple and unbureaucratic regulation on this matter. I am convinced that if you want to, and if it is political will, you will be able to create a code that is both simple and unbureaucratic. When I heard Micaelsen's contribution, it seemed to me to me to be contemptuous that this government has put a great deal of effort into sport, culture and volunteering. But if you listen to the volunteer yourself, it's probably not the same idea of the so-called bet of this government. It is true that all parties, with the exception of the Advance Party, were in order to impose a ban on gambling, which has resulted in the net loss of voluntary teams and organisations. 2.5 billion dollars a year, spent on voluntary work around the whole country. This has meant that volunteering has become much tougher than it had in the past when it had these resources at its disposal to carry out voluntary work throughout the country. So I don't think it's very good that you try to make it like this government has put a lot of effort into volunteering, when the volunteer experience that you have to cut. Now it is also a financial crisis. And for volunteering, it's a challenge, because business may not have the same muscles to be able to contribute financially, as you've done in good times. This means that there will be even more narrower opportunities for volunteering in Norway. I also have to get into the Center Party. At least one thing is certain: if there is no world record in breach of promises, at least there must be a Norwegian record in breach of promises. On Saturday it was decided to remove VAT for volunteering, while on Thursday a proposal was put down in the Stortinget which would have made it possible for the volunteer to retain the funds paid to the State today, in order to be allowed to do voluntary work in this country. I think it is very bad, and I think it is important that we now ensure that we remove VAT on voluntary work. In fact, there is a majority in the UK, if the Senter Party follows up what the Senter Party says they will, which could remove VAT for volunteering and allow volunteering to flourish and get a lot more money to do voluntary work, which is both preventive, and which is also very health-promoting in many areas. So I had hoped that the Center Party today will vote with the opposition in order to decide to remove VAT on voluntary work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2667	I know that adrenaline is rising when I hear the argument about VAT for the voluntary sector in Stortinget today. I am a little confused when writing the following in a press release from the Central Party's national meeting - it should not be a habit to quote from press releases from the Central Party's national meeting: ‘The national meeting of the Central Party considers it unreasonable that purchases of goods and services for social purposes by non-governmental organisations shall be 25 % more expensive than any purchases made in an industrial activity.’;» This is what they find unimaginable. And then we hear that Per Olaf Lundtägen in his post here today argues for having today's system. So when the Central Party sends out a message to the people that it is very unimaginable that the voluntary sector pays VAT, and then argue to keep the VAT system as it is – dear friend – then there is every reason that people may be confused. Then to the Council of State. It is very strange when the Minister of Finance asks the Swedish Government for advice on how to, in practice, possibly narrow down VAT exemptions for voluntary organisations, when the Council of State at the same time prevents the selection that the Council of State participated in, from being allowed to settle both zero and full VAT compensation for the voluntary sector. When a selection that has been set down, which actually has many competent people to give advice, is not allowed to finish it, it is meaningless. You do not want the competence to do this. A lot of people thought that when the Culture VAT selection was reduced, it was exactly what the selection was supposed to do. But that knowledge didn't want the government, and then it's very strange that the finance minister here in Stortinget asks how it's going to be done. When a person knows what a signal he has given to a voluntary sector, when the Council says that there is an increase in support of the state budget they want, there is a lack of willingness to listen to Norway. The Prime Minister has been at the voluntary conference and has been given a clear signal that VAT is very important. But the government would rather be investing in State aid, so that one can manage and give to the organisations that you like. The government wants to increase the focus on voluntary work to the extent that it benefits itself. One knows that in many areas where one has increased support, e.g. In the year of lack, the government has directed it so that if you didn't spend the money on the year of lack, you didn't get any money. The choice of where to use the money, instead of allowing the voluntary sector to decide for itself, I don't understand that a do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2686	I need to get some things clarified. I don't think I'm alone in that. I believe many representatives of Freedom Norway this evening are sitting and taking part in this debate on the Internet. I think there are more with me who don't clearly see what the Center Party means in the matter, and what the Center Party is going to do. That's why I have to go and ask myself if the Center Party can solve something here. After Lundtigen's contributions, I have to say that I was rather confused as to whether you've taken reality inwards, and whether you've figured out what to do tonight. At the Central Party's national meeting this weekend, the Central Party took a decision on Freedom Norway. Lundtigen says from this pulpit that VAT exemptions and voluntary arrangements have a top priority for the Centerpartiet. The representative Lundtigen is standing on this platform tonight and says that the Central Party will be a driving force to facilitate the voluntary sector. I have just returned to Stortinget after giving birth to two children. I've had leave. So someone might claim that I haven't quite come out of the breast milk. But I have to admit that I have never been more confused in this room than after tonight's articles from the Center Party. For is it possible to stand on the pulpit in Stortinget and highlight these arguments, while at the same time voting against the proposal tonight? I think the Senterpartiet must be aware of the expectations that are now created at Frivility-Norway, both after the national meeting this weekend and not least after Lundtigen's posts here tonight. We politicians are often accused of saying one thing and doing something else. Rarely have I seen a clearer example of that. I also think it is new that the Minister of Finance has to come to Stortingen to ask for advice from the opposition on how to set up a scheme, but I take note that it is a new practice. Nevertheless, I need to say that it is strange to experience that there is such a clear majority in Stortinget to do something about such an important matter, while at the same time the Senter party is voting against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2697	Only a few words from the point of view of the rapporteur. The opposition is written off in this case more operational opinions and more investigations. You're also going to get money – almost what you think you're going to grant. In general, I think that's an interesting invitation. But I think that the position much earlier should make it clear that they intend to cooperate with the opposition on important issues. I understand that at the end this has become a little special, since the majority sits a little bit different, not least after this last, famous national meeting that many people talk about. But if you – and this is general – contact the case rapporteurs from the opposition and say that you are interested in getting a cooperation, but that you are unsure about many things, that you think the value added tax problem is difficult, that is, it is often, and that you are afraid that the amounts can escalate etc., we will definitely be involved. But it requires that we also have time to handle it. Most of the investigation equipment has the government. So I could imagine that when things like this appear – and we still have something left of this period – could for example. The answer given by the Minister of Finance, which is what is fundamental to the opposition's comments, contains some of the problems that are being considered and which are not fully addressed. Just at the end of this matter: we have written in the notes that we assume that we should have a voluntary register that works, and we have underlined – as I think is very important in terms of the register – that we should establish clear criteria and definitions for what is community-based voluntary activity that could be registered. But once again, on another occasion we are open to a slightly different procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2708	After the statements by the representative of Hofstad Helleland, I will try to be even more pedagogical. The decision of the Central Party at the national meeting shall be settled. The center part has this thing as top priority. We're going to be a driving force at work, as we've been for a long time. The last sentence of the majority’s remark in the vote is: ‘The majority are satisfied with the Government’s commitment to the voluntary sector and also its emphasis on using the most appropriate instruments to support this sector.’ There we are. So I said that in this design, in the same way that the Minister of Finance has now challenged the opposition, we have to set conditions, so that the organisations that will be part of it must be registered in a category in the Register of Freedoms that the State and the volunteer agree to grant the right to support or exemption from VAT, depending on the solution to be found. So it's an obligation that has to be fulfilled in order for you to have a right. I have not seen here that you are trying to define what we are now talking about, either in terms of commercial business, which everyone should agree not to get involved in it, because there are a number of organisations also within the voluntary sector that are organised as limited liability companies, which I do not expect to be part of what we are talking about. But I can be concrete. We have a number of beer clubs and associations here in the country. Are they going to get into what we're talking about now?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2724	Well, it's still going to sum up if there was anything clearer about what the central part's position is, after the last article. But what the position will soon have to answer is: how is it possible to refuse a selection to address precisely these questions in the mandate that we are talking about? Who should within these rights? Who shouldn't? What should be the framework conditions, etc.? It's the red-green government that has refused to look at it. You say here that you want to afford from the opposition. Is that credible? Why, you do not even want the advice of those who have been appointed experts in this area! And then you come here and demand advice from the opposition. It's parodisk - simply parodisk.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2733	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2622]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2749	What we are about to discuss and debate now is a proposal from the representatives of the local authorities Erna Solberg, Torbjørn Røe Isaksen, Sonja Irene Sjøli and Jan Tore Sanner on equality between private and public providers of care services, with a view to exemption from VAT on services provided. As the draft representative points out, the justification given to the proposers for the need for clarification and a decision to that effect is that the different tax rates operate in different ways as to whether or not they consider private carers to be taxable. In some municipalities, private and public care is treated in terms of the VAT system, while in other municipalities, there are vague attitudes and many different interpretations of the legislation, and thus different practices from those of the tax haven. During the examination of this matter in the Committee, we have also had a hearing. The hearing bodies confirmed the points made by the proposers in their proposal and added additional examples of discrimination between private and public operators. The Hearing Officers therefore not only supported the proposal, but insisted that we also look at the possibilities of extending the value added compensation scheme. In the Financial Committee, as I see it, there is a broad consensus that private and municipal providers should be treated in a non-discriminatory manner. All parties therefore appreciate the fact that the Tax Directorate has taken some action to ensure that the tax law is applied equally, among others. by publishing information on how to understand the legislation, on the Internet site of the establishment and in the VAT Manual. A minority consisting of the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left believe that this is not enough, as the hearing bodies have also pointed out. However, a majority of the Workers’ Party, SV and the Centre believe that these measures are sufficient, and that current regulations are clear enough, and believe that there is no further need to clarify this, rather to support a proposal to extend the VAT compensation scheme to private providers of health, care and care services providing regulated services under State responsibility. Another important element in this case of VAT reimbursement, which is rewritten by the minority in its observations, is the discrimination between public and private in terms of VAT reimbursement for the construction of dwellings or institutions included in the provision of municipal care. For example, if a municipality: even building nursing homes for elderly or organised housing for people with disabilities, the municipality will receive reimbursement of VAT expenditure. However, if the same is built by a law of residence or a non-profit foundation and then operated by the municipality with municipal employees as an integral part of the municipality's assistance, rehabilitation and care services, the law of residence or the foundation will not be entitled to VAT refund, even if the purpose is ideal and no profit is collected. Another related problem is discrimination in school and education. As it is now, schools run by the municipality or county municipality receive VAT compensation for paid VAT on the rental of premises, while private schools do not receive a deduction from the input VAT on such rentals. On the other hand, if a private school itself builds the school building they use, they will be able to deduct VAT, but if the school wants to rent rather than build, the right to deduct will be abolished. It is in stark contrast to public-run schools, which receive VAT compensation. I find it hard to see that this can really be the intention of the law. The point of the VAT Compensation Act is that there should be no difference between public and private. The regulatory framework in this area may at times be rather complex, as the previous case was a good example and pointed out by several, but this only illustrates the need for a broader review of this. Another element that we have not affected, and which may be able to travel, is whether this is in line with the EEA Agreement’s prohibition on distortions of competition and unlawful State aid. In conclusion, I would like to address the proposals that the Advance Party is promoting together the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2770	The representative Jørund Rytman has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2773	Today we are discussing a proposal for a representative to equalise private and public providers of care services with a view to exemption from VAT on services performed. The proposers point out that the right to choose providers of services that meet the basic needs of health, care and care services is small, and believe that freedom of choice is particularly important in these areas, because it concerns people's private spheres. Municipalities are responsible for ensuring that those who need it receive the necessary care and care. The proposers believe that the public should finance the services, but that it should not be a pre-requisite of the municipalities themselves. The Party of Progress and the Right considers that there must be freedom of choice for each user of home-based care services and claims that, in order to be effective, competition, it requires private service providers to compete on equal terms with public service providers. I note that it is soon a campaign, and that the right here comes with another proposal that intends to increase the privatisation of health and care services. The Workers' Party believes that it is the public which is essentially to provide the citizens with basic health and care services. That is why we have strengthened the municipal economy by nearly 35 billion kroner, including the money in the action packages during this period. Our goal is to enable municipalities to provide their citizens with better quality, increased accessibility, greater freedom of choice and greater influence. The Labour Party will improve the public sector and not reduce it. However, with regard to this proposal for a representative, as the Council points out in its letter of 25 February 2009, so that private and municipal operators are already on the same footing as in the case of exemptions from VAT. It follows from the first paragraph of Section 2-1 of the Social Services Act that social services are services that the municipality has obligations to provide. Municipalities may choose to provide the services themselves or to purchase them from private service providers. Therefore, as a starting point, the exemption in the VAT law does not depend on whether it is private or public activities that provide the service. There are some detailed conditions for private provision of health and care services. These conditions are made clear in the letter from the Council of State. Firstly, where a municipality chooses to use private operators to provide social services instead of to provide them, turnover must take place on the basis of a municipal award decision. In addition, the municipality must enter into an agreement with a private enterprise providing such a type of service, if the municipality wishes to use private operators to provide the services instead of exercising them. It is also the case, as the representative Rytman pointed out, that through the Tax Directorate, action has been taken to ensure that the tax law is applied equally. Information on understanding the legislation has been published on the ETA website and in the VAT Manual. With regard to the argument that there are different practices between municipalities because it is up to each municipality to choose whether to agree with private service providers, this will in any case not be regulated by the value added legislation. The proposers point out that VAT exemptions for private providers of health and care services will lead to increased founding of women. The working party is very concerned with female entrepreneurship, and the red-green government included. a separate action plan on more entrepreneurship for women in February 2008. This is a 12-point action plan that has an overall approach to the field, and the Government aims to ensure that the proportion of women among entrepreneurs is 40 pst. by 2013. It is gratifying to note that the opposition is also committed to getting more women entrepreneurs. But in this debate it is a siding. The health care staff are our most important resource, and they make a formidable effort every day to provide citizens with good care and value care. Postponing this sector to more competitive outsourcing under the argument of increased women’s founding, appears to be a strange approach to just increasing women’s founding. We want more women entrepreneurs, but do not want them to compete – mainly – with women employed in public care. Since private and public health service providers are already far on the road in terms of VAT exemptions for services provided, the majority see no need for a further extension of the VAT compensation scheme. We therefore propose that the proposal for a representative should not be accepted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2805	This proposal focuses primarily on freedom of choice for individual users of home-based care services. Having the opportunity to influence who enters your own home to assist with care services is important. Knowing and trusting the caregivers is one of the most important things when you are in such a situation that you need daily help. Unlike many municipal services, a smaller company can agree that there are only regular care providers who know all the procedures to carry out the care. Private operators may also be subject to completely different requirements for the offer. Thus, private operators can provide better adapted services for many users. Many are, and will still be, well pleased with the municipality's offer. But the question is, why should they be prevented from choosing anything else? With today's regime, only people with a liberal economy have this choice. And it shouldn't be like that. The future will increase, and they will become more demanding. The need for and the need for individual solutions in the provision of services will increase. To meet these needs, the current situation on the provider’s side is not a good solution. It will force a natural desire for variation and tailoring of the various care services. The need to continue to choose does not automatically fall away even if you need help with practical tasks. It may be of great importance to the dignity of the individual to have the option of opting out of the non-functioning home help. Facilitating multiple actors to provide home-based services will increase the diversity of services to choose from. That's an advantage for the users. In fact, contrary to the Labour Party representative, the Right believes that another clear advantage of a system of freedom of choice is that it will help to increase entrepreneurship among women. The start-up of nurseries is an opportunity for women who want to start their own business, precisely because women have a particular competence in this area. The right is therefore disappointed that government parties do not show an interest in facilitating more women to start their own activities in the area in which so many women have so much competence. If this government had been concerned about and wanted to do something about the equal pay problem, if this government had wanted and been concerned that women should have greater influence over their own working day, if they had wanted women to have better career opportunities and the ability to work more full time, they would have done something in almost four years by offering private care solutions on equal terms with municipal and state services. There are many fine words about equal pay from this government, but unfortunately there is no action to trace. The allergy to private solutions seems to be so great that they do not even choose to put the theme on the agenda. It actually says that when I took up this problem with the Minister for Equality three weeks ago, in the Question Time, she started her answer by saying that she did not understand the issue. I think several of the government party representatives would have enjoyed being with me and meeting many of these women who are trying to start their own business in the care and care sector. Then they could have heard how difficult it is, they could have heard about all the obstacles they're facing on the road, the obstacles that are primarily created by political forces. In the red-green Trondheim, it is not even possible for a nurse to start her own business. It is not possible to start a separate business where services can be provided in the same way as municipal services. There is the municipal monopoly, and it also means that wages are kept down, that it is largely not possible to work full time, and that women do not have as much influence on their working day as in other municipalities where there are private services competing. While workers in most other sectors have the ability to use the skills and ideas they have developed in their own field of competence to start innovative activities, health and care professionals are largely prevented from doing so because of today's obstacles. It is important that the VAT rule is comprehensible to managers in small businesses, not least that the legislation is practised in a uniform manner. It is also important that charging legislation is designed in such a way that it can be understood by managers who are not legally competent. It was something that those who were in the hearing with us took up in particular. It is therefore also important that legislation is designed to be interpreted in a uniform manner by enforcement authorities. It is unfortunate, as the rapporteur has pointed out, that there is also discrimination in relation to statutory health services under State responsibility. I am therefore very pleased that the opposition has gathered to make changes here, even if the proposal does not get a majority tonight. The right knows that there are very many, and especially many women in this industry, who are today very disappointed by the decision the Stortinget is making tonight. There are very many who had hoped that the Government too would have helped to facilitate freedom in the selection of service providers and a clear and predictable charging code, so that public and private service providers would be treated in a non-discriminatory way in practice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2835	The Labour Party representative said this was about wanting to increase privatisation. I believe this is not about necessarily wanting more privatisation, but it is actually about allowing the individual user to choose the offer you want to use. One of the companies that is in the middle of this situation, the care service in Skien, is in the process of having major problems if you don't get a plan on this. It's a company that has almost 500 users in the border area. In the municipality of Skien, which is run by the red-green parts, you have to cut 35 million. care and care. There is a poor provision of care and care for many of the users in the municipality, and you scream for a better offer. So the result is that you have a red-green government that does everything it can to prevent a level playing field between private and public care providers. This means that the municipality of Skien can bring up to several hundred new users into its care services, for which they are unable to provide services in a satisfactory way today. The huge 35-million cuts. kr, which is located there, will present major challenges to users who are already in the municipality's offer today, but not least to all users who are now on the waiting list and are not at risk of obtaining the care and care services they require and which they should have had. I think it's a little sad that you have a discrimination from different tax offices, which allows some companies to operate this without having to pay VAT, while others are not allowed to do so. That is exactly what is part of the proposal that has been put forward today by the Right. I also think it's quite special that a company that actually does what all politicians talk about in party speeches, that you have to get people who have been out of work either for shorter or longer periods, back into work. Many of the employees are people who have been out of work but who are now on their way back to work. If Tax South does not reverse the decision and the Council of State does not ensure that it intervenes and cleans up the situation in which this company, together with other companies, is involved, then the result is that the company must be shut down and important offers to many people, as well as sending people who have now entered the labour market out of work again. I think it's important to bring it with me. I really hope now that the position and majority in the hall see how important these types of businesses are, and how important it is actually that users are allowed to choose. I think it is important for users to be allowed to choose whether they want to use private or public services, and then it must be right to pay the same price whether you choose the private or the public. That's the best offer. The thing that at least there is no doubt about this offer is that this offer is very... now I was put off a little, because I looked at the clock. It's not speaking time, President, but I thought my time was up. So I was kind of set off! What I think you should bring with you, which is actually important with such a company, is that it's the same employee who comes every day, or when you need it, and when you're going to make use of your service, unlike a lot of the public, where you don't know who comes home in your house to do the chores that home help is supposed to do. But here you get a guarantee that it's the same employee who comes every time. For many, there is a security that is important. I really hope now that the majority is thinking and supporting the opposition, who has managed to gather on a proposal that is important for the companies that provide care services, but not least for all those users who think it is important to be allowed to choose for yourself who you want to enter their house and do care.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2854	First I have to say that it was very good that it was pointed out by the representative Hoksrud that it is not speaking time, because there were some of the representatives who tried to trick a young alternate to think that it was 3 minutes speaking time. But it's good that we got clarity about it, because then it's really just throwing the jacket and betting that we're going to stay here for a while. This is one thing that has two angles of incidence. One is ideological, and the other is about common sense. I'm a little bit unsure which angle of incidence I'm going to pick, and I'm a little bit unsure if any of the angles of incidence really want to reach the government. But let me sacrilege and take a little bit of both. The ideological approach is about a fundamental difference in the view of well-being in society and how well-being can arise and be produced. One view is a bit caricature, a view that says that public welfare is the only form of well-being, while the other view is a view of well-being that is about welfare being equally likely to be private. It can have origins in families and primarily about people and how people relate to each other. One view of welfare focuses on the system, the other view of welfare focuses on what you can get and what you can deliver. It's a crucial difference. But first of all, this matter must not be dealt with in ideological terms. It might as well be about common sense. Let me do a concrete example. In the municipality of Skien in Telemark it is that you do not have enough hands in the care of the elderly to be able to care for all the elderly who need help. In other words, the public has simply not managed to hire enough people, spend enough money or organise themselves in a good enough way to help all the older people who need help. Then there are some angry ladies who start a company, who want to help, help the municipality and help the elderly to get to this. They fulfil what the Prime Minister says – they give him a handshake when he says he should have more hands in the care of the elderly. And then they help people, by municipal decision of course, get help, and get the help they deserve, and the help they deserve. So these ladies feel that they are meeting a code that is crooked, but also a code that is unclear, where there is different practice from where you are in the country, from the VAT code. They experience a code that changes so that every three years, depending on who sits and decides. The representative from the Workers' Party said that the starting point for non-discrimination between public and private operators was that there should be a fixed agreement between the municipality and the provider. It is not specified in the legislation as an absolute prerequisite. It is said that if such an agreement exists, etc. There's nothing in the legislation that says it's a prerequisite. But then, in some parts of the country, the law is practiced as if it were a prerequisite, which includes: As a result, companies in Telemark, which provide private care at the municipality’s expense — after decisions in the municipality — receive a discretionary equation, are being simulated for tax purposes, and are experiencing very much the opposite today than they did three years ago. With respect to reporting, you don't have to be particularly ideological to see that it's against common sense.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2869	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2622]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2885	The financial crisis has given many businesses major economic challenges, and government parties are concerned about the situation. This is why we have launched several measures to limit the impact in Norway of the crisis and market situation in the world. The proponents of the Progress Party are committed to the State offering tax credits as a contribution to a moderate wage settlement. They propose that the 2009 wage settlement country should take initiative with the social partners and offer tax incentives as part of the central wage settlement. The tax rate is proposed as an equal amount for all. In addition, it is necessary to be able to negotiate salary supplements in local negotiations at the level of the individual enterprise. We are lucky to have responsible, nationwide organisations in Norway who, through this year's tariff settlement, have shown that the Norwegian model is working. The model is built up over a long period of time and in close cooperation between national policy authorities and national employment organisations. History also shows that governments, governments and corporations, in cooperation with the social organisations, have concluded agreements where taxes have also been an important part. No one can claim that the Progress Party or the proposers have been active contributors in this work, and perhaps it can also explain that publishers believe that the Storting can impose both government and social organisations that the Progress Party believes is a correct solution. For the rest of us, a tripartite collaboration is based on voluntary cooperation between three parties, where, of course, the Storting cannot dictate anyone. I could say a lot, and we could probably get a long debate if we wanted to. I am the case rapporteur and can take the floor as many times as I want. I would like to encourage both the proposers and others to think so that Easter peace can be reduced as early as possible. But I have a greeting to the Right-Man Fleet, because he used words that I would most like to beat. Claiming that Klungland is tired – at the age of Fleet – I feel shocked! He should probably only accept that the case is lost because we are more. I wrote it down with meaning and pen. I think we'll have a majority for the harvest again!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2919	I thank you for your request. I'm not going to take this in poem form, but I'm going to be relatively brief. In Norway, we have a rich state that invests people's money in businesses in our competitor country. This ensures capital for non-resident enterprises and makes them more competitive, even in relation to our own enterprises. In Norway, there are social partners who negotiate annual wage settlements — often with great drama, door slamming, and very often it ends in mediation with the Riksmeklingsmann. Increases in wages and salaries help to make products produced more expensive per year. unit, which in turn reduces the competitiveness of enterprises vis-à-vis enterprises in other countries. In other words, wage increases are positive for the individual but negative for the enterprises. In Norway, competitive industries are struggling to survive due to the failure of demand combined with high taxes, employers’ taxes and public costs. The ongoing financial crisis requires that we all do our utmost to ensure that otherwise competitive companies do not lose the basis for their activities. In this respect, the size has been conscious of its responsibility and adopted significant package of measures relating to the credit market and the financial industry. These are measures that have benefited in particular the banking industry and the larger enterprises. The action packages show that it is possible to break the established budgetary decision-making procedures of the Stortinget. On Tuesday of this week, the social partners agreed on the central wage settlement for 2009. It resulted in one krone in general and one krone in so-called low pay supplement. The general supplement covers 200000 employees, while the additional crown includes 76000 employees. For each employee, the one-krona supplement means a salary increase of NOK 2000 per year. The total of the companies is $400 million. kr. These are costs that will largely be transferred to the products produced by the enterprises. However, the agreement is not binding on the parties and may be renegotiated on each company. It can therefore lead to a real zero settlement in some enterprises. Such a result can help to ensure jobs and the competitiveness of individual enterprises, but is short-term negative for individual workers and negative for the macroeconomic growth of the economy now needs. 400 million. kr means a lot to the companies, but very little to the Norwegian state. In fact, the amount does not exceed what the State pension fund — Foreign lost on its investment every six hours throughout the year. The right and left claim, in their comments, that they are followers of tax relief, especially in times of recession. There is little doubt that we are in a period of decline, and the proposal we are now considering will entail tax relief with a positive effect on businesses, on employees and on the overall economic activity. However, the parties argue that tax relief falls only within the ordinary budgetary procedures, and it becomes strange that the Right – at least rhetorical – believes that tax relief should be included in various packages of measures dealt with outside the budgets. We politicians must be humiliating to traditions and processes. I registered what the representative Klungland said about tradition, the Workers' Party, LO and all of this, but it is actually also our responsibility to do what is right – and at the right time. Both the Minister of Finance and the Prime Minister have stated that exceptional times require exceptional action. I agree. I'll bring this up with our proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2949	The representative Christian Tybring-Gjedde has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[See page 2622]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2967	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 2622]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2975	The increase shall now be added to the case No. One, two, five, six, seven, eight, and nine.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e2982	In the course of the debate, 18 proposals have been put forward. It's proposal No 1, by Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left Proposals No. 2-7, by Odd Einar Dørum, on behalf of the Party for Progress, Right and Left, proposals No. 8 and 9, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 10, by Anders Anundsen on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 11, by Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, the proposals No. 12 and 13, by Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Right and Left motion No. 14, by Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide on behalf of the Right-wing Proposals No. 15-17, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party proposal No. 18, from Odd Einar Dørum on behalf of the Left First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 15–17, from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e3041	There is a vote on proposal No. 14 from the right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government is asking for a fifth year of primary school teacher training. This year shall be a compulsory year of practice of remuneration and the year shall end with a practical task. The year of practice gives 60 study credits and must pass in order to pass primary school teacher training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e3055	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 12 and 13, from the right and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e3078	There is a vote on proposal No. 11, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asked to introduce a compulsory Norwegian course of 30 credits in primary school teacher education for 5-10. Steps.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e3092	There is a vote on proposal No. 10, from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking for a fifth year of primary school teacher education by 2014. The subject of pedagogics and learning skills is extended by 20 study credits and shall include: practical pedagogics, class management, student management, school/home cooperation, cooperation with other school professionals and extended practice. A new subject is set up with 10 study credits for the practical correction of subjects. The master’s task shall be put in place with 30 study credits.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e3106	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 8 and 9, from the Advancement Party and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e3129	There is a vote on proposal No. Eighteen from the left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate the implementation of a system of teacher certification. In this context, different models for the certification of teachers should be further explored and the work should be carried out in close cooperation with stakeholders in the school.» The Progress Party and the Right have announced that they will support the proposal in a subsidiary way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e3146	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 2, 4, 5 and 6, from the Advance Party, Right and Left. Proposal No. 2 sounds: ‘The Government asks the Government to confirm the entry into force of a five-year master-grading teacher training in the autumn of 2014 and to use the period up to that date to increase the competence of the teacher training institutions and, otherwise, to enter the five-year training.’;
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e3180	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 3 and 7, from the Prom, right and left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e3205	There is a vote on proposal No. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back to Stortinget with a complete case on all types of teacher training.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e3227	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e3255	During the debate, Ms Solberg put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to assess the impact of any possible Icelandic EU membership on Norway and to submit the investigation to the Stortinget as soon as possible.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e3276	In Case No: 3 and 4 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e3283	During the debate, Jørund Rytman has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e3317	During the debate, Svein Flätten has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to present a case on how to exempt the voluntary sector from the VAT burden linked to the purchase of goods and services on a permanent basis and to assess the speed with which such a permanent scheme can be implemented. The Government is asking for proposals to extend the VAT compensation scheme for the voluntary sector to become a rights-based general VAT compensation scheme covering both goods and services. The government is asking for proposals for an increased limit on the payroll obligation of non-governmental organisations and for increased limits on the obligation to pay employers per employee/per organisation. The Government asks the Government to submit proposals for an increased framework for the right of deduction for gifts to non-governmental organisations.’.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e3353	During the debate, Jørund Rytman has put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e3387	During the debate, Christian Tybring-Gjedde has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The government asks the government to contact the social partners and to offer tax relief as part of the central wage settlement in 2009’.» Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-02.ana.ud2081e3565	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
