ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e22	I have the great pleasure of welcoming the Turkish Parliamentary President, Mr Toptan, with a delegation to the Grand Duchy. Our Turkish colleagues are on official visit to Norway from 5 to 7. May. We hope they have a nice stay that underlines the excellent relations between Turkey and Norway. - Welcome! The representative Eirin Kristin Sund, who has been on leave, has once again taken his seat. [[Applause from the Group of the European People's Party]] The representative, Jan Arild Ellingsen, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e36	On behalf of the representatives of Solvency Horne, Thore A. Nistad, Anders Anundsen and myself, I am delighted to make proposals for a change in the pay-fixing system for officials.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e41	The representative, Ms Søreide, will put forward a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e44	On behalf of the representatives of Erna Solberg, Gunnar Gundersen and myself, I am delighted to present a proposal for action to strengthen the basic skills of the adult population.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e49	The representative, Mr Gjermund Hagesetter, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e52	On behalf of the representatives of Ulf Leirstein, Jørund Rytman, Christian Tybring-Gjedde and myself, I am delighted to make suggestions on the annual calculation of the tax freedom day.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e57	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. Carl I. Hagen took over the president's office here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e85	On Monday, the Stortinget received a message from the Prime Minister's office that Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg will meet for oral Question Time. The Prime Minister is present, and we are ready to start the oral questioning process. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We then start with the first main questions, from the representative, Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e94	There will now be reports of strong growth in unemployment. At the same time, the bankruptcy rates of Norwegian industry are increasing to an extent and are creating concerns for large parts of Norwegian business – especially small and medium-sized enterprises – that are struggling, clinging firmly, trying to survive at difficult times. At the same time, there are reports from industry that the government’s action packages have not yet started to work. It could be tempting to ask the Prime Minister when he intends to start these action packages to have an impact on business. On 1 May, the Prime Minister launched an action against social dumping. I think there are many in this room who agree that it is necessary to combat social dumping. But when we now see such gloomy features in Norwegian business, with increasing number of bankruptcies and rising unemployment, it is particularly important that the government now chooses to launch a measure that industry itself strongly warns against, as many small businesses say they are unable to handle, because it requires significant capital to secure or participate in a pay guarantee for all businesses other than the one you own, own and run. My question to the Prime Minister is whether he is comfortable applying this extra burden to Norwegian business – especially to small and medium-sized enterprises – now, in such a difficult time, when the Government should rather focus on lower taxes, lower taxes and fewer bureaucratic obstacles that would have made it possible to survive and chlorinate itself firmly through these difficult times.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e103	Thank you very much for an important question from the representative, Siv Jensen, for addressing the financial crisis and the increasing unemployment that is the biggest problem and the most important task we are facing here in the country. First of all, it is a question of solidarity. In the government we are concerned with low unemployment and tidy and good working conditions both for employees and for businesses. We believe that there is something that characterises Norway, the Norwegian model and the Norwegian welfare society. For many years, we have shown that there is no contradiction between wanting good, tidy conditions in the workplace and wanting low unemployment. On the contrary, Norway and the other Nordic countries have consistently clearer and better conditions — better social conditions, better environmental and safety conditions — than very many other countries, while at the same time having lower unemployment. In fact, many of the countries with poor conditions with regard to workers’ rights are also constantly enjoying higher levels of unemployment. Solidarity is an advantage for serious businesses. There are many serious companies today that are struggling with unprofessional companies winning tenders – competing them – because they benefit from low wages under the agreements and rules in force. Solidarity would therefore benefit serious enterprises and make it less tempting to enter into contracts with firms which do not comply with laws, regulations or administrative provisions. We therefore believe that solidarity will be a new example of how to combine clean and good working conditions for workers and low unemployment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e112	Solidarity will primarily benefit large and well-established enterprises and thus act as a distorting factor for small enterprises which, for capital reasons, are unable to produce the wage guarantees required to fulfil the objectives of solidarity. I can't believe that there's a hand bill for the workers around, especially in the construction industry, if they risk losing their job by their company going bankrupt because the government's proposal on joint and several liability is now being introduced. Many companies in the business community also say that many of the other measures taken by the Government to combat social dumping have not yet been fully effective, and they ask and ask the Government to wait a little both because there are demanding times and because they want the previous decisions to work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e117	It is true that the Government has implemented many measures to prevent social dumping. We do so partly because we want to avoid, of course, poor wages for foreign workers, Poles and people from the Baltic countries who work in Norway, but we do so also because it would put pressure on pay and working conditions for ethnic Norwegian workers if they were allowed to have low wages. So it's also for the sake of those who have always worked in Norway that we want to avoid social dumping that exacerbates the conditions for all workers in Norway. It is one of the reasons for joint and several liability, which is that it is less profitable then to be an unprofitable enterprise, to follow agreements and rules more profitably. There are many serious companies today that complain that they are being competed by companies that do not follow agreements and rules. This will strengthen the serious enterprises and make them more capable of being tasked on equivalent terms, and not being competitive by unprofessional enterprises. It is fully possible to combine good pay and working conditions with low unemployment. Norway has shown this for many years, and we will also show it in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e126	There will be four follow-up questions – Torbjørn Hansen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e129	The right is against social dumping, but we are also clearly opposed to so-called solidarity. First of all, it's basically wrong. Enterprises are complicated and cost-effective, and it is clear from feedback from industry that this is a measure that weakens the framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises, which weakens employment in Norway. Secondly, there is doubt that so-called joint and several liability will have a special impact on many employees, and the risk is that these are symbol policies that have a high cost for Norwegian jobs. Then I started to wonder if the government has come to realize that we are in the middle of a situation of greatly increasing unemployment. In the evening post today, DnB NOR notes that we want 140 000 unemployed at the end of 2011. The problem is not weak labour rights in Norway; the problem is lack of jobs. Does the Prime Minister not see that these types of anti-business proposals, like the increase in the tax on enterprises with one million employees in Norway, actually weaken jobs in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e136	One of the oldest contradictions in Norwegian policy is the contrast between the right and social democracy and the labour movement in the view of workers' rights. Whether we talk about work environment law, good health pay schemes or other employee rights that ensure good pay and working conditions, the right side has always said that it will be at the expense of the jobs. Well, historical experience is that Norway, which has a high level of employee rights, social rights, the working environment and safety requirements, has low unemployment – and not only low unemployment, we have a very high level of employment – while countries that have low standards for workers have consistently higher unemployment and lower employment. History speaks for our benefit in terms of the view of employee rights and jobs. With regard to concrete joint and several liability: the problem is that if two companies do the same job, the company that has unprofessional subcontractors would like to win the job because they have unprofessional subcontractors. Then we say that solidarity strengthens the serious businesses, it strengthens the cleanliness of the labour market, and it strengthens the Norwegian economy that everyone is entitled to be serious. In addition, employees receive the remuneration they are entitled to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e143	Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e147	The answer from the Prime Minister is that I would like to repeat what the National Association of Construction said when the proposal for joint and several liability was promoted. They warned against joint and several liability with the design that this has now given. They fear that this will lead to serious construction companies – and I repeat: the serious companies – doing the best they can to take care of and treat their employees properly, and following laws and regulations, will be able to go bankrupt. Is this, according to the Prime Minister's assessment, only solved talk and crisis maximisation, or is this a calculated risk that the Government wants to take?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e154	There are different opinions about this instrument, as there are very many other instruments, in order to ensure the rights of the worker in Norway, whether there are sick pay, work environment laws or other measures against social dumping. However, we believe that experience suggests that when it comes to making demands on serious subcontractors, it reinforces the seriousness of the problem, because it becomes more difficult to abuse serious subcontractors in, for example. the contest for tenders. I also think it might be useful for us to get this: these are rules that ensure a rate-fixed salary for all workers – in the sectors where we see that it can be social dumping. There are 2.5 million employees in Norway; these rules include 150 000 people, mainly in construction and a few other industries.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e161	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e164	It is important to ensure that all Norwegian workers receive Norwegian salaries under arranged Norwegian conditions. I think we have to look for all the tools to get it in place. I understand that too is the Prime Minister's point of solidarity. Thus, in a construction site, for example, the responsibility for paying and having an orderly Norwegian job has to be pushed up the food chain. Then my simple question is: why should it not be possible to push it all the way up to the builder, who in Norway is very often the state and municipality? When it's not state and municipality, it's Olav Thon and other wealthy people. They should take responsibility for the fact that everyone who does a job for them has an orderly Norwegian employment relationship. Why does the Prime Minister himself not want to take on the responsibility of solidarity through the state and the municipality?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e171	We believe that there are those who have the opportunity to check whether subcontractors are serious, who have to sit with responsibility. If the Left's point of view is that you have to take it all the way up to the builder, it's an honest point of view. It can then be proposed during the process in Stortinget. But the experience we have from, among other things, Germany, where they have a similar system, shows that it is the model we have chosen in Norway, which is the best model, and which guarantees both jobs and employees’ rights – not only for those who come from other countries but also for those who are ethnically Norwegian.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e178	Ulf Leirstein – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e181	The challenge is, of course, to bring forward this proposal on solidarity that is to be presented to the Storting, at these times. We hear all the time that you are busy getting rid of unprofessional suppliers etc. There are very many small and medium-sized enterprises reporting major challenges today. They believe that the Government has in many ways forgotten the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises when it has presented its package of measures. You can now, with joint and several responsibility, get into a situation where some companies that are a little smaller than the biggest ones do not actually have the opportunity to submit tenders, simply because they cannot provide this guarantee for which the Government is now engaged. It will further make the situation difficult for many small and medium-sized enterprises. Can the Prime Minister say something which, in these days, can be positive for the small and medium-sized enterprises that actually feel that the Government has forgotten them in the package of measures that has been presented and which is largely targeting larger enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e192	The government has presented comprehensive package of measures from early last autumn. They have targeted small enterprises, medium-sized enterprises and large enterprises – against all Norwegian enterprises. The main instrument is that we have developed an interest rate policy and a budgetary policy that makes interest rates drop sharply. It will benefit the entire economy. Not least, many small and medium-sized enterprises receive less financing costs, lower interest expenses, easier financing of investments and, among other things, contribute. to keep the activity in the construction industry, where there are many small and medium-sized enterprises. So the main instrument is not least small and medium-sized enterprises. Everything we've done about the banks is important. When we reach e.g. Using billions of dollars to clean up schools and maintain roads, we not only get better roads and better schools, but we also get many jobs for carpenters, plumbers – many small and medium-sized enterprises. And when those plumbers get paid, they go to the store, which may also be a small or medium-sized enterprise – and then there will be more business in those companies. So when we pump money into the economy, it also becomes business in small and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e201	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e204	Today, the entire cover of the Evening Post shows the dramatic increase in unemployment, which each new forecast that has come has shown to be the future of Norway. Norway will have significantly more unemployed during the next year. Since August last year, unemployment rates have grown faster in Norway than in most European countries. In that situation, the Government must also start to reconsider and look at its own actions — whether they work or not. The right has spent a lot of time in dialogue with Norwegian companies about what's going on out there. They cannot confirm the Prime Minister's recent lesson that interest rate policy works for small and medium-sized enterprises. No, they're saying the opposite. They say that they do not experience meeting improved conditions after the packages arrived. In the case of refinancing, the higher capital requirements are higher and they meet interest rates higher than in the past. It works for us consumers, but it doesn't work for small and medium-sized enterprises. This is why it is so important that we now find measures that make it easier for small and medium-sized enterprises on the cost side, measures that make it easier to keep people in work rather than to send them out on unemployment. That is why the Right has presented a package such as this. contribute to this, such as by lowering the employer’s contribution by 2.5 pst in the following year. contributes to more people retaining their jobs during a time when demand from outside is decreasing, but companies are thus more competitive. My question to the Prime Minister is: does he now see that the government's instruments do not hit large parts of the private sector — construction, yes, but not the rest of the small and medium-sized enterprises? And he'll do something about it, for example. reduce costs?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e213	We are facing the strongest setback in the international economy since the 1930s. For the first time since 1945 total production in the world will fall, and we see that in many countries industrial production falls by 20, 30, 40 pst. It's a very powerful setback. Now it also enters the labour market. The unemployment rate in European countries, EU countries, is now around 8 p.m. In our neighbouring country, Sweden, it's over 8 pst, so we're talking about a very strong setback. Norway is hit by it. Half of what we do here in the country, we sell to the rest of the world. And when things go so bad abroad — they buy fewer goods and services — Norway, of course, because we are so dependent on exports. That is why we have put in place massive instruments by the Government. It started with the budget, where we spent an extra 19 billion dollars to stimulate the economy. Then there have been new packages, and we have increased the use of money over the fall and over the winter. In addition, interest rates have decreased significantly. That's our most important tool. And then we have implemented targeted actions towards, among others. the export industry, by what is called export finance and what is called GIEK, the export credit guarantee scheme and other measures. This is done by the enterprises affected. But it is true that the main problem now is the export industry. That's why it's important to keep low interest rates. Lower interest rates are the most important means of action. It is important both because it reduces the investment costs of enterprises, but it also keeps the price down – important for industry. The low employer’s fee is not a precise instrument. I have checked one company, Årdal. I'll give them $7.5 million. NOK by reducing the employer’s fee by 2,5 pst. The effect of lower aluminium prices is DKK 1 billion for one company, and it says something about now putting into action measures that are taking the export industry. The type of non-matching instruments is not appropriate as they are at present.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e223	I hope that the Prime Minister shows a little greater humility in dealing with unemployment than he just showed – humility enough to say that it is not certain that all the solutions the Government has put on the table meet those who become unemployed, and the companies that are actually struggling. When we meet Norwegian companies, especially small and medium-sized ones, they say that the interest-rate weapons don't hit them. So they're meeting higher interest rates, and they're having a harder time getting a loan. There are quite a number of labour-intensive enterprises that need lower costs in order not to lay off employees. For the first time in 30 years, Beitosølen has been on leave – the hotel and restaurant industries are struggling in many parts of this country. District work places go by the flute, and annual work places go by the flute. The possibility had been there to lower the cost of these companies. But there are some who ask the question: Is it that the government's lack of concern and lack of action in the private sector is a deliberate policy? Is it true that people want to be unemployed because they need more people in the public sector afterwards?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e230	Point 1: lower interest rates help. It also helps small and medium-sized enterprises because they receive lower interest rates, because access to credit is improved and because, for example: increases the activity of the construction market, which is important for many small and medium-sized enterprises. Point 2: We take unemployment very seriously. We have emphasised that since it started to grow last autumn, and that is why we are putting in place significant measures. We have also announced that new measures can be taken. We have strengthened, adjusted and developed the measures as the crisis develops. We must be prepared to do things differently as the international framework conditions change. The availability in Norway is on its way up — it is about 3 pst. The availability in our neighbouring country is 8 pst. The unemployment rate in 2005 was 4.5 p.m., so we still have to fight to keep the unemployment rate as low as possible. But we are going to be hit and have therefore announced increasing leave. Our aim is to ensure as many jobs as possible, and to ensure that new jobs are created as quickly as possible instead of those lost.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e239	There will be four follow-up questions – first Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e242	It is quite interesting to note that the Prime Minister is trying to take credit for the fact that interest rates have fallen sharply. But the 15 times the interest rate went up under today's government, it was the fault of the Bank of Norway – then it had nothing to do with the Government. Let me say the following: All the packages of measures and measures presented by the Government to the Stortinget are grouped together. So you agree with them. But then we see that all this doesn't hit as you might have wanted, and we also record that it's now taken more than three months before the last credit package might now be launched, based on the latest reports. And in Norwegian business, there are very many small and medium-sized enterprises that do not feel that the measures are taking, and that experience everyday life differently from what the Prime Minister is trying to give the impression. The question is quite simply: is it the case that the companies that report to us that they now have challenges and that the measures are not taking, are they simply wrong? And isn't the reality out there correct?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e251	Firstly, I would like to say that I am responsible for both interest increases and interest reductions. There was a change in interest rate policy in 2001, which now means that we set interest rates up in good times and lower interest rates in bad times. Before that conversion, we actually did the opposite, because then we used the interest to stabilize the exchange rate. Then it was that in the downtime we often set the interest rate up, which made it worse, while in the uptime we set the interest rate down and gave even more gas. We changed in 2001, which is why we have an interest rate policy that now seems much better. I take responsibility for that, and I'm glad that the interest rate can now be reduced. Secondly, I believe, of course, that the companies that are now experiencing problems should be taken seriously. There are many companies that experience problems, but it also happens in good times. It disappears about 200,000 jobs even in peak hours, so some companies come and others go, is completely normal. The serious thing now is, of course, that more jobs are lost than new ones are coming, and that is why we are putting in place comprehensive measures. We have about 3 pst. unemployment in Norway, and it is around 8 pst. in our neighbouring country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e258	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e261	There are many people in our country who wonder – and fear – whether they have a job to go to. At the national meeting of the Labour Party, we heard that the Prime Minister proclaimed quite loudly that Norway should have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe. The idea was enough that it would have a soothing effect both on the national meeting and us, and also give the impression that it was a very ambitious goal. However, as the Prime Minister knows, Norway has for a long time had the lowest unemployment rate, at the same level as the Netherlands and Switzerland. The new figures now presented by the European Commission showed that unemployment in Switzerland will increase four times as much as in Norway, and in the Netherlands there will be twice as much increase as in Norway. The estimates show that the result will be an increase in unemployment in Norway of 64,900 people, and then my question is: Is there a success in the eyes of Prime Ministers, or is he just satisfied that the others have higher unemployment than Norway has?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e268	Our goal is work for everyone. Our goal is always to reach out for no one to go unemployed. Then we realize that we never reach 100 pst. employment and 0 pst. leave – but we always reach that goal. That means we're not satisfied with either the free time is at 3 or 4 pst. But what I'm trying to say is that we're now going to put in massive measures – not that we're going to have less leave every week and every month than for example. The Netherlands, because they have less leave than we are now, but we have said that when we are through this crisis, we must have less leave than other countries in Europe, because we must avoid it biting. The big danger now is that the time off goes up and stays at a high level. The Netherlands today has less leave than Norway, they have had it for several months. But let's compare it to the situation when we took over -- that was 4.5 pst. leave in 2005, now it is 3 pst. So we fight what we can, every day, to limit the growth of unemployment and create new jobs. Our goal is work for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e273	Lars Sponheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e276	Ever since the crisis began, it has been obvious that the export industry will be hit hardest, and we see that quite clearly – a dramatic failure in revenue. And of course, it's easy to have fun with the fact that a moderate reduction in costs cannot compensate for a loss in huge revenues. What is now happening is the indirect impact of the failure of the export industry, namely that many small and medium-sized enterprises of different types, which are subcontractors and indirectly live on these export revenues, are also dramatically affected – and the cost picture is quite crucial. It is in a way the silent crisis that is now becoming the worst, not the big headlines. The Prime Minister has made it a point, we have understood after the National Labour Party – and we are sure to hear it mantra throughout the electoral campaign – that he should be the best at employment. I think I'm afraid it's a fairly common belief that the government is bad at businesses. How has the Prime Minister intended to be the best at employment when he is poor at businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e285	It is not possible to be the best at employment without being good at enterprises. That's why I'm concerned that this government should be good at both, because it's so close. The measures we have now taken are taking the businesses, and that is why it is also taking the jobs and strengthening them. The most important thing is lower interest rates. There are tens of billions of dollars in increased purchasing power, which keeps many businesses alive. It is particularly important for the export industry. It helps to stabilise the exchange rate, which is crucial for the export industry. In addition, we have strengthened the financing of the export companies with GIEK and Export Finance. Then we have strengthened Innovation Norway significantly, and it is important for many export companies. But there is also a fourth instrument that is important for the export industry, and that is what we are now doing in connection with Enova to generate new renewable energy. There are many export companies that then get more environmentally friendly energy, and that is a good example of how we can link the financial crisis and the climate crisis and help solve both by investing in more environmentally friendly energy in Norwegian export companies. We do a lot for the companies because we have to do a lot for the jobs, and we're busy with both.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e293	Jan Tore Sanner – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e296	Before Christmas, the prime minister stood up on the whole front page of today's business and said that what is dangerous now is that even profitable businesses can go bankrupt. Since then there have been several packages, especially against the banks, but the companies report it has gone from bad to worse. It is more difficult for small and medium-sized enterprises today to obtain loans and obtain favourable conditions than it was before Christmas. Then I hear the Prime Minister says that the measures are taken. It's a completely different reality from what we get when we're out visiting employees, business managers and owners in small and medium-sized enterprises. They're reporting something completely different. They report that now is the time to reduce the employer’s pay because it will make it easier to keep employees, and it will make it easier to hire new ones when times start to improve. It is not without reason that many ask questions about it that the Workers' Party now sees the economic crisis as a strategy for getting more from the private sector and over in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e303	The working party is to create and share. That is why we need both a strong public sector and a strong private sector. There has been a strong growth in employment in the private sector in the last three years, a sharp increase in value creation and record investment. We're for private companies, and we've been since at least the 1920s -- so that's us. The second is that it's true that things are getting worse, but that's because the international crisis is getting worse. Last autumn, the estimates for our main trading partners were 25 plus 1.5 pst. of the national product. This winter, the estimate from the Fund was minus 1.5 pst. Now the new estimate came at minus 4 pst. This is a massive fall in the international economy. That's what's going on in Norway. We are putting in massive countermeasures to mitigate the effects and create new jobs. It works, but it won't save us from the international financial crisis. We're going to notice that, but we're going to take stronger measures than other countries, and thus get better through the crisis than other countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e310	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e313	Older people who depend on care and care and many different services from the public are a vulnerable group. It is important that someone takes care of their rights, and it is important that their rights are strengthened. I am therefore pleased that we have the State Health Authority, but I am very concerned about the signals coming from the Health Authority regarding how older people feel, those who are vulnerable and depending on care and care. Last month, the Health Inspectorate found reason to warn the Ministry. Despite not having completed supervision, they report that older people in hospital are at risk of a serious risk of failure in, for example: medication, which is essential for their life and health. Health oversight has also identified the care of the elderly as a risk area and has established a four-year supervision to follow up this vulnerable group. Calling it a risk area — on the part of the Health Authority — is not exactly a recognition of the efforts that this government has made for the elderly. It doesn't shine with old age care, Prime Minister. That is why we agreed to strengthen care for the elderly, and in that agreement, the crux was that the Government should promote proposals for new rights: the right to a decent care and to a place, the right to proper medication, the right to proper nutrition, the right to activities and culture – a guarantee of dignity. Last week the Health Minister from this pulpit informed me that that part of the agreement has been put in a drawer. We thought it would be followed up with a bill before the election, now it's all in blue. It is serious enough that the government is breaking an agreement with the Christian People's Party, but it is even more serious to break promises to older people in this country. What does the Prime Minister intend to do with that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e322	First, I would like to thank you for an important question, because the situation in the care of the elderly is always one of our greatest and most important tasks. It is important that the elderly get a decent and good old age, and care when they need it. The challenge will increase because, fortunately, we are getting more older in the years to come. We have to follow up the agreement and the agreement on the elderly, and we have followed up many important points. For example, we are in front of the form for 10,000 new annual works. The key to better care for the elderly is more staff in the care of the elderly. We are not in the target, we are not satisfied, but we have followed up on the concrete promise of 10,000 new annual works in the care of the elderly. There is funding for 3,500 new hospitals, and we are now strengthening medical coverage in hospitals. In the case of the exclusive measure, it's 95 pst. coverage. That doesn't mean everything's good, but that means it's done a lot, and we want to continue that escalation. So to the concrete on the law of a guarantee of dignity. The plan was to include it in a common health and social law. We have now started work on a major new cooperation reform. In that case, it must be seen in the context of how we get to the division of responsibilities between municipalities and health enterprises. Therefore, there is no law now in our law, but of course it will be included in the big message about the interaction reform that we are presenting. We're going to follow up and implement what's standing there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e331	I stand here with a written agreement containing the signature of the Prime Minister's party, the signature of the Christian People's Party, the signature of all the governmental parties and the Left. There the Government has an obligation, not to make a new big message – because it was during the processing of a big message we entered into this agreement – no, to make a legislative proposal that implies that the contract item 1 is to ensure older people the right to a place, the right to proper care, which now shows that health care is broken every day in Norwegian nursing homes and in Norwegian care services, among others. due to poor manning. We cannot settle for the Prime Minister now writing a new big message. This does not depend on the interaction reform. This is about older people having the rights that we have in very many other areas of Norwegian society. In fact, there are stronger rights in the Animal Welfare Act than there are in the care of the elderly in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e338	I believe that we should follow up and strengthen the offer to the elderly. I believe that the elderly should have rights. I believe that a good way to get it done is to get better interaction between state hospitals and municipal health services. That is what the interaction reform is all about. That is why we believe that the best way to strengthen the overall provision of elderly people is to provide better services both in the healthcare system and in municipal care for the elderly, and that is what the interaction reform is going to be about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e343	There will be four follow-up questions – Siv Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e346	Elder care is at the top of the agenda for each election because it allows it to become a balancing item at all times. It should be embarrassing for the Prime Minister, who promised that after these four years it would shine off the elderly. Today, municipalities are responsible for the care of the elderly, schools and kindergartens. Thus, the legislator has given legal rights to education and to kindergarten, but older people, who in many situations are the most vulnerable, and who may not have relatives to assist them, have no statutory rights and become a balancing post today. And they're going to be a bigger balancing post now that the local economy is getting worse. Thus, the municipalities cannot cut in the areas where they are bound by statutory rights, but unfortunately they can cut in the care of the elderly, where legal rights have not been introduced. I think this should have been a higher priority for the government. When is this given priority by Stoltenberg?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e355	At first I think that's an advantage for the election campaign if opposition politicians stick to the facts. There is something that Siv Jensen and others are constantly repeating, and it is that I have promised that it will shine through the care of the elderly. I've never done that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e361	It remembers all the voters, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e366	I've never done that. What I've done is say we should strengthen and expand the care of the elderly, and we have also started that. Of the concrete promises we made, one of the most important was 10,000 new annual works. It was because during the progress party-supported Bondevik II government the care of the elderly was actually weakened. In the last year, it went down by 1,600 years. Then we said 10,000 new annual works. So based on figures from the Statistical Central Bureau, we are in front of the form, with 12,000 new year's work in care and care. That doesn't mean everything's okay, but that means that there are 10,000 more annual works, people who work in care and care, and that makes you get a better offer than if developments under the previous government had continued. So we've given money to 3,500 new hospitals, so we're at that goal of reaching... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e371	No pay - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e374	Since the Prime Minister has now twice been injured to misinform the Stortinget, I would like to give him the opportunity to correct it. His own health minister confirmed in the questionnaire a week ago that there are not 10,000 new annual work for the care of the elderly but for the care sector as a whole. It's something completely different. It is estimated that only half of the annual work has gone to care for the elderly, and I think that the Prime Minister should be honest enough to admit it. The National Audit Office has just provided a review of the care of the elderly, which shows that the coverage of nursing homes has fallen in the last three years, i.e. in this government’s time. At the same time, the Riksrevision points out that one in ten, i.e. 10 pst, of the elderly, is able to benefit from a day’s offer. Elder care is significantly worse than it was at the entrance of this period of government, and it should be fair enough for the Prime Minister to admit.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e381	Firstly, care and care – and I have stressed that many times just as the Council of State has underlined it. I have done it in writing, I have done it orally and I have done it in Stortinget several times. It is also stated in the election material and in our work programme that there are 10,000 new annual works of care and care. Much of it comes in the care of the elderly, but there is care and care. In relation to a government that managed to reduce 1,600 years' worth of work in one year...
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e386	It's wrong, President.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e391	...then we've got a strengthening of the care and care sector. It's the same problem all the time, that because we think it's more important with care for the elderly, we don't do like the previous government, spend billions of dollars on lower taxes. That is why we have been able to increase significantly the appropriations allocated to the municipalities, so that they can strengthen fire services. That is what the political elections are all about, and we are choosing care for the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e396	Gunvald Ludvigsen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e399	I'm not an expert on quotes, but I mean to think that the Prime Minister said that one shouldn't give a penny in tax bills until it turns out that the care of the elderly. It is likely that no more than one month after the new government was in place, tax havens were given. When 100-year-olds don't get sick home access once they need it, the reality is that there must be something seriously wrong with governance, something seriously wrong with the priorities, in this country. At least there's not much merit either over such a situation. My question is simply: Is the Prime Minister satisfied with the record of the care of the elderly after almost four years as head of government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e408	What we said about taxes in the previous magnification period, we have also followed up, and we mean every word. One thing we said was we were going to have a fairer tax system. That means that someone would get less, and others would pay more. But when we talk about the overall level of taxation, we said it shouldn't go down – we said on the contrary that it would go up a little bit. And we've fulfilled all of those tax promises. We've reduced the tax for some, we've increased it for others, and overall, the tax level is increased by a few billion dollars. So we haven't given tax credits, even though we've made a fairer tax system. It is quite right that I said that it is wrong to spend money on tax relief, reduce taxes, before it shines on the care of the elderly. That's why I'm also going to be against what the bourgeois parties are going to vote on in 2009, namely new billions of tax dollars. I think it is more important to spend that money in school, care for the elderly and other important tasks. So there's a good contrast between politics, where we're still choosing common rather than new billions in tax havens.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e413	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e417	Then I would like to put a question to the Prime Minister who makes a clear breach of the agreement that was signed a year and a half ago. There is an independent point in this agreement — not the guarantee of dignity as such — namely the educational capacity of doctors specialising in the diseases of the elderly, i.e. geriatrics. These training positions were to be doubled – it is stated in the agreement – but it is now apparent that it has at best been quite silent to get more trained specialists in the diseases of the elderly. Will this point also be postponed until the interaction reform comes, and if so, with what justification? It takes many years to train more specialists in the diseases of the elderly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e424	I do not know the educational capacity of geriatrics in Norway, how it has evolved in the last year. We have announced that, in the revised national budget, we will review the offer of study places in many different disciplines – we did so in the action package this winter – and this is also an opportunity to see whether we can strengthen educational capacity in the health and social field.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e429	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e432	It's like something's happening solid once a month. In politics, there is this meeting place between the Prime Minister and parliamentary leaders. This has been the case for a whole four-year period now, and as I understand the Storting Programme, this is the last spontaneous question hour in which the Prime Minister meets parliamentary leaders, so it may be appropriate to rise a little above the policy and thank all these meetings. There have been important points in Norwegian policy – in any case. Then we will have different goals – if the elections are to ensure that Prime Minister Stoltenberg is on this platform for the autumn. But in any case, we have to say that there have been four years in Norwegian policy where it has been very important that has happened. I will use my last main question to the Prime Minister in this period to raise a crucial and important question both about crisis management and about the future, namely in terms of education. Because there is now a saying that it is never so wrong that it is not good for anything, and crisis, and increasing unemployment, and in particular the lack of new jobs for young people, have led to record applicants for our universities and colleges. Of course, it's sad for the individual not to get the job you've dreamed of, but for society it's probably no tragedy that many more applicants for colleges and educational institutions. It's actually a little bit of the possibility of the crisis. That's why we in the Left are very concerned that we're using this situation to do what we can to get as many people as possible to the place they want, and that they get the education that society deserves. So now we read about universities and colleges struggling with the economy. Many say they reduce the number of study places, while it should really be crisis management no. 1 to make sure that all our great youth can use the crisis for education. What will the Prime Minister do with this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e441	Firstly, I would say that I believe that these spontaneous questions have been a very important meeting place. And I agree with the representative of Solheim in... no Sponheim [[muttering in the hall]] Education is a third main question we're facing. There is the situation that in the action package we presented in March, we announced that we would assess the educational capacity in the revised budget. It is time to extend the capacity, if any. We're now working on the revised version, and I can't tell you what we're getting there. It is presented to the Stortinget in a short time. But it's true, as the representative says, that getting more applicants now gives us an opportunity. In recent years, we have seen that the number of applications has fallen, among other things. for teacher training. There have been fewer who have been raised, but there has not been cut in study places, so there are some available capacity. But in addition to taking advantage of the available capacity, there are questions as to whether we need to expand or allocate money to additional places of study. The store will be presented with our assessments of it in a short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e448	In fact, I chose to interpret the Prime Minister there now that he warned, cautiously, a budgetary breach, and that in revised terms there will be money so it will be monstrous to the university and higher education sector – in which case it will receive full support. I think it's absolutely necessary. I think the best form of crisis management we can do is to accept all those who are now applying for study places and colleges. And a lot of money is needed. I have read in the Evening Post that only at law school at the University of Oslo you will now remove 200 out of 595 places of study, and that should not happen in a situation where many applicants for higher education. That's our future, that, and that's probably what will enable us to get out of the crisis faster, and with greater power than we would otherwise do. The left has done a calculation that says that the revision should bring over half a billion dollars to higher education and research in order to cope with this situation. I interpret the Prime Minister to that we can expect a day of joy on 15 May.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e455	Prime Minister Lars... Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg [[muttering in the hall]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e458	President, I don't want to smile at this, because I have the same problem. I have not brought any budget leaks. What I have said is what we said in the package of measures that we presented earlier this winter. There we did not come with new places of study, partly because we were to see the situation a little – look at how the number of applicants was – and partly because we were to assess the development of the Norwegian economy. We come back to Stortinget with it when we present revised in the middle of May. Then I say that in one way there are two things: one is of course the assessment of the total use of money, and the other is the assessment of the number of applicants in terms of available capacity – because there is some available capacity. Then we have to assess whether we are going to bring more money. The assessment of it comes in May.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e465	There will be four follow-up questions, first Anders Anundsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e468	The pleasant tone in the main question may be due to the fact that the Left is soon the guarantor of a continued Stoltenberg government after the elections according to the national meeting debate there – but that is not my question. This government has downgraded higher education throughout the period. They have cut the appropriations and have not followed the commitments they made to the electorate in 2005. Universities and colleges have faced economic challenges ever since Stoltenberg took over government offices in 2005. In addition, we now have times of crisis, and we know from past experience that in such times of decline, higher education is increasingly sought. That is an advantage, because it gives a more competent citizen. The Progress Party proposed 400 million in the State budget treatment. more to the university and higher education sectors, and in the crisis package 400 million. kr more for the higher education sector. The promotion of such proposals in the revised national budget will be too late. Does the Prime Minister realize that he and the Government parties should support the proposals of the Progress Party in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e479	Firstly, we have increased the appropriations for research and higher education. In fact, research appropriations have increased significantly more in this period than in the previous period. But once again, it's so that even if you've given a lot more money, there's still a lot of unsolved tasks in research and higher education. In the case of places of study, it is not too late to do anything in the revised national budget. That was also why we announced in winter that we would look at this in the revised national budget. The need to increase the number of places of study has been limited when the search has fallen so sharply, as we have seen in recent years, to important studies, including: teacher training. Now it's turned around, and it's in isolation joyous because it means that we get more people who will be teachers – a huge increase. It is then put on the agenda again: the question of whether we should increase the number of places of study. It will be presented to Stortinget in a few weeks.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e487	Ine Marie Eriksen Soreide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e490	New figures from the Statistical Central Bureau show that the share of education in Norway has declined every year since the Stoltenberg government took over in 2005. Institutions experience a real decline, and no matter how you calculate it, if you count as a percentage of mainland Norway's GDP or as a percentage of total public expenditure, there has been a decrease. I assume that the Prime Minister is doing well for the figures from his former employer SSB, and that we don't need to spend time discussing it. We've had rest cuts, which meant that universities and colleges got less money. We are experiencing redundancies all over the world, at all institutions. The college in Hedmark cancels 40 years' work. We experience cutbacks in study provision, cutbacks in seminar education and cutbacks in study places. The chemistry students at NTNU have been halved in their laboratory time. We experience that dental students lose their practice, and that the exam is cut. How does this reality fit with cuts and cuts match the promises of Soria Moria's statement of more money to universities and colleges?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e499	I don't know exactly the numbers from the Statistical Central Bureau, but they're definitely right. The question is, what are they saying? The vast majority of government budget expenditure is falling as a percentage of mainland Norway's GDP. This is simply because the GDP of mainland Norway has risen a lot. That's a good news, and it just shows that the representative Sanner was wrong when he said we weren't betting on the private sector. Private GDP has grown so strongly — therefore, almost all government expenditure as a percentage of GDP has fallen. That doesn't mean that the cost has gone down. It just means that it's gone down in percent of something much larger. So it could be both true that the percentage has gone down, but the appropriations have gone up. It might be a little weird, but that's the way it is. It is simply because we can increase the allocation for a purpose – we have done so in many areas – but because GDP has grown so strongly, the percentage has fallen. It doesn't prove there's been any reduction. On the contrary, as I say, we have increased the investment in research and higher education.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e504	Dagrun Eriksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e507	After this percentage review, I'm going to stick a little bit to numbers. We have now, in fact, had an upswing through the time that Stoltenberg has ruled. 200 billion more have been allocated than the previous government had. The Prime Minister is a very warm follower of the rule of action, who will see things over time. Does the Prime Minister now regret that in this time of well-being, in peak hours, we have had a real cut in higher education, which means that now, when we look at ourselves seven lean years, in order to use a well-known expression, we are struggling to accept that educational capacity? In addition, it's not just about increasing the number of places, but because of the cuts that institutions have now made, it won't be full funding and the ability to accept the flow of students that we're now seeing. If you regret that you didn't use the good times to make... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e516	What makes us spend more money now is that we stayed in good times. The paradox is that economic policy, which was followed both by the current and by the previous government – we agreed on the framework and the main lines – is precisely that in good times we should hold back, so that we can spend a lot of money in bad times. That's why this year we've been able to increase so heavily the appropriations for very many good purposes. A little bit depending on how the economy evolves, at least we have to assume that we can continue it in 2010. It is not that, although there will be a decline in the economy, there will be a decrease in the allocation for good purposes. On the contrary, there is a lot that makes us able to increase appropriations in bad years because we have the pension fund as a buffer. I repeat – we have increased sharply the total appropriations for research and higher education. I see that we need even greater appropriations. In the case of study places, Stortinget gets our assessment of it in the revised national budget, as we announced earlier this winter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e525	Gunnar Kvassheim – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e528	Former Minister of Knowledge Øystein Djupedal has told how he internally in the Government was fighting bad budgets for the higher education and university sectors. He didn't make it. There was his great defeat in the government. He was overrun by the Prime Minister and the Minister of Finance. The Prime Minister has said that Norway should be the best in Europe for employment. It is a goal that the Left fully shares, but we lack an ambition in the field of higher education and the university sector. Does the Prime Minister agree that in times of financial crisis Norway should have the ambition to be the best in Europe to use the higher education, university and research sectors to counteract the impact of the financial crisis and to build the future, and that one must also follow up on the appropriations needed to achieve such an objective?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e535	I believe that we should focus more on research and higher education. Just how many dollars in which years we get back into the different budgets, but I believe that the years we now have behind us in this magnification period, show that we're betting on research and higher education. Research appropriations have increased more in this period than in the previous period, and we have had about the same financial framework to deal with. So research and education are crucial. We're betting a lot on it, but it's again, that I've been through several times in this quiz, the need for... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e540	The size goes to the next main question. There will be a significant restriction on the follow-up questions of the last two main issues, for the sake of time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e545	The quality of a society can be measured on the basis of several criteria. One of the criteria can be how we take care of the smallest and the youngest, and what kind of quality of life we give them. The same applies to how we take care of the elderly, cf. the debate earlier here today. Another criterion that might be interesting to look at is the crime scene – how crime is established, and what kind of crime we are struggling with. In the draft budget for the current year, the Government had an ambition of 38 p.m. crime was to be solved and punished. That means six out of ten were going to get away. It is possible that it is a good red-green policy, but it is not fully good in the eyes of the Progress Party. A recent study showed that out of 41 serious assaults in the last three years, all had been committed by non-Western immigrants. We have also had a period of mass drug sales along Akerselva, and so have we from the Bergen area. Much of this has been done by people who have been refused a residence permit here in the country and who should have been sent out. The first weekend in May there was a wave of knife use in Oslo, which hit innocents to those degrees. The government's ambition to combat crime has been increased admission to the Police College, which is positive, and after the package that came in January, it has been suggested to increase the number of civilians employed by the police, by 460, which was positive. In addition, it has been said that there is a desire to increase the overall framework in the justice sector, which is also positive. When you see all of this, what does the Prime Minister think is the reason why the government's policy is not working?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e557	All crime is unacceptable and all crime must be combated. So it's like some other policy objectives: we'll never be content as long as there's crime, just as we'll never be satisfied as long as there's unemployment. There's no one who can guarantee zero crime, no more than anyone can guarantee zero unemployment, but we fight it all the time anyway. Massive measures have been put in place by increasing the admission to the Police College, as the representative correctly mentions, and we are ahead of the form in terms of new positions in the police, i.e. civil positions that release police professional positions for police work – over 450 posts in one year is a lot. And we've carried out a very important operation, the DNA reform, which now allows us to take many more criminals, simply because we have much better investigation methods, and we've doubled the number of DNA tests, which means we get to take many more criminals. We have also achieved better coordination between the law of the foreign country and the police in taking people of foreign origin who commit crime in Norway. They have to be expelled, and we have a lot of permits to expel them. I want to use those homes, and the police are busy using the same homes. So crime has to be combated, and we have implemented, among other things, actions along Akerselva. Looking at the overall rate of crime, crime has fallen in 2008, which is the last whole year we have figures, and that is the lowest in 14 years when we take population trends into account. That's 3 pst. fewer reported offences, including: serious theft, particularly from cars, but also drug law offences and other types of crime are falling. Then there's a lot of crime left. Although there has been a decline in total crime, we are not satisfied in any way, and therefore we are going to continue to escalate the fight against crime.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e568	I registered that the Prime Minister pointed out how good you have become. At the same time, he should have looked at the percentage of clarification on some of the conditions that are to the degrees miserable, in order to use a mild expression. One of the battle points between the Government and the Advance Party has been the use of closed reception. Governments have said no. The Progress Party believes that people who do not have a legal residence here should be able to stay in a closed reception until they are able to send them out properly. The government has consistently said no to this and has been skeptical about it. I see that the Prime Minister is now saying that one should look at the possibility of getting them out of the country more quickly, but what should nevertheless be worrying is, after all, the large proportion of crime committed by people who do not have legal residence here. There, the Progress Party believes that the government has been too defensive. My question to the Prime Minister will then simply be: why is it more important to safeguard the freedom of movement of people who do not have legal residence here, when it comes to the detriment of the security of the Norwegian population?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e577	I don't think it's any more important. I think we should do everything in our power to protect people from crime and crime. I believe that those who do not have a legal stay should leave the country. That is why we have strengthened the opportunities of both police and foreign agencies to get people out. We're facing some problems. This is about people from the EEA, which is the whole of Europe, what we used to call Eastern and Central Europe. There's open and free movement, so it's not possible to send people out in the same way as for example. out of the EEA territory. The second is that a problem we have is that you can disagree deeply about where some people come from. The country from which we believe they come does not agree that they come from that country, so we have problems returning them. But those that can be returned must be returned. We are stepping up our efforts to get to it, and we also believe that there is a legal basis, which is in fact also strengthened by the new law on foreigners, to impose obligations on people or certain places of residence when they are here – that is, foreigners who are in Norway and who we... [[The President cut off]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e584	There will be two follow-up questions – Elisabeth Aspaker.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e587	The Prime Minister has thanked for many main questions today, but not for this. I can understand that, because the Stoltenberg government has little reason to be proud of the way they have dealt with the police conflict that still stands up. The police challenges associated with embassy monitoring are increasing. This winter, in the Oslo area, we have experienced some very brutal invasions of private homes, where entire families have been held hostage. The drug pressure against Norway is high, and in Oslo, trafficking is manifestly occurring without police being able to stop it. In recent times, in Oslo, we have witnessed a number of serious acts of violence using a knife. In the fight against drugs, the municipality of Oslo deserves praise for taking the initiative to hire instrumentators to clean up and patrol the most vulnerable areas. The problems in Oslo are the same as elsewhere in the country, that the absence of visible police gives criminals free play. Does the Prime Minister see that the Oslo Police are in a serious resource situation, and what will he do to bring an immediate end to the police conflict, so that the police can function again?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e596	Firstly, I am pleased with questions about crime as well. These are important questions. Secondly, it is always a review challenge for us that the opposition rightly points out that there are problems, whether in the care of the elderly, in the labour market or with crime. I agree that there are many problems and that many problems are unresolved. That is why I want our government to continue. I believe that our government is better able to solve the problems than – what to say – the slightly unclear, various other options that need to be available to our government, among others. Because we think it's more important to bet on what we're going to solve together, whether it's unemployment, or there's crime, than to leave more to the individual. One reason why we have been able to strengthen the police significantly beyond what the previous government did is that we have invested in the community rather than spending a lot of money on other things. That is why there have been new extra posts in the police department. That is why there has been a significant increase in admission to the Police College. It provides a reinforcement of the police. It's not all solved. We have to keep stepping up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e603	During a meeting with the police at Gardermoen, we were told that asylum seekers would be put on a bus and that the bus driver would be told to make sure they left at the right place. Much of the crime we see today is committed by asylum seekers who have not stayed, and when dealing with their cases, crime is also committed. In the Prime Minister's reply to the representative Ellingsen, the Prime Minister said that the criminals who have not stayed should leave and that he should do everything he can to ensure the security of the inhabitants of Norway. My question to the Prime Minister is, Why aren't these sent out? What will the Prime Minister do to those who commit crime while their affairs are being dealt with?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e612	Those who commit crime must be punished. They're going to jail. They're to be judged. They are either to be held in prison in Norway or to be sent out – or both. People who commit crime are to be taken by the police. One of the reasons we're strengthening the police is precisely to be able to take more criminals. That's also why we put in extra effort, among other things. along Akerselva, where there was a lot of crime. So the answer to what we're going to do with criminals is we're going to take them, judge them, jail them. That's also why we're now doing a lot to get rid of prison queues. Some of the pointless thing was that convicted people didn't get a zone. Then those who do not have the right to stay will leave the country. One challenge is that some countries will not accept them. Then we don't have anywhere to do with them. Then we want to get to a return agreement. We are working very hard to get more countries back to the countries they come from.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e617	Let's move on to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e620	Can I ask the President to wait a moment to start the stopwatch? Since care for the elderly has been a central theme of this issue, I would like to congratulate the President – with the President’s permission – on the 65th anniversary! So to the question, Gro Harlem Brundtland has just been celebrated by all of Norway and in particular by its party. I guess it's deserved. Gro is remembered for too many memorable statements. One of them was in a New Year's speech where she asked the question, Where has it become of the neighboring crumb? No one has yet found the answer to that question. But she is also remembered because in an election campaign in the 1980s she used the term 'heart-eight' about the health cows in Norway. At that time the health cows in Norway were 50 000. Today they're between five and six times as much, close to 300,000. There has been an increase of approx. 30 pst. during the period of responsibility of this Government. At the same time, waiting times in key areas have also increased. I mention one example: a man of 71 years – I am interested since I am the same age myself – was told that he had to wait 66 weeks for a simple shoulder operation. He chose to pay for the operation himself and got it done on the day. Purchases of private health insurance have only increased by 130 pst in the last two and a half years. So we see a clear trend towards a classed health care system. This is because of one thing: this government, for ideological reasons, does not want to exploit the available capacity of private treatment institutions. Is the Prime Minister satisfied with that result? What characteristic would the Prime Minister choose to use on a health cow five times as long as the Gro Harlem Brundtland characterized as heartache?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e627	First, I would like to join in the congratulations on the President's birthday. It's a pleasure and honour to be allowed to be involved in marking it. So I'll answer the question. The most important thing is how many people are treated in hospitals. Never before have more people been treated in hospitals. Only in the last few years have the number of treated patients increased by about 50,000. This is because we can deal with more, that we have more technology, but also that more people need treatment. Two thirds of those admitted to hospitals are admitted to hospitals because they need immediate help. For them, the waiting time is near zero. It is waiting time for the third party to have planned operations. There's the main idea that this has been pretty stable. In the case of waiting time within somatic areas, it is 73 days. It's two days up. It's pretty stable. In the case of mental health protection, not somatic, the waiting time is reduced by two days. And then it's pretty stable, 53 days in total. So the main picture is that there are many more patients treated than before. The waiting times are stable. Two thirds get treatment right away because they need immediate help. So I think we need a private supplement. That's why we have private, voluntary, non-profit organisations and others that help relieve public health. It went down a few years, but the growth in private went down less than the treatment in public went up. In fact, treatment in private hospitals has increased more in the last year. That was about. 7 pst. increase in treatment in private hospitals from 2007 to 2008. We think you should do what's best for the patient. We believe that a strong public health system is the best. We believe that a private supplement is a contribution to overall getting a good enough health care in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e639	I record that the Prime Minister now answered a lot of questions that were not asked, while he carefully avoided answering the question that was asked. Indirectly, I then interpret the Prime Minister's reply to you that he thinks it is perfectly right with a health queue of nearly 300 000. He also thinks it's quite okay that it continues to increase. It is with respect to report not particularly impressive that you treat a few more patients than before, when you have increased the cost of hospitals by 30 billion kroner in recent years. At the same time, this government has also been able to manage so that the accumulated deficit of health businesses is now on a staggering 24 billion kroner. In fact, I believe that those people who are waiting, or who at the age of 71 are told that they have to be prepared to wait for one year and four months for a simple operation, the Prime Minister's answer seems arrogant.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e644	I believe that the most important thing is how many people are being treated in Norwegian hospitals. I believe that it is therefore important that we allocate more money to Norwegian hospitals, and I am happy that we have managed to treat more people. And I'm glad two thirds get immediate help and therefore don't wait at all. But it is clear that there is no comfort for those who wait a long time, that many do not wait. So it's like in a lot of other areas: we have to keep trying to reduce the waiting time, all the time stretching towards everyone getting quick treatment. Although many people receive good treatment in the Norwegian healthcare system, and tens of thousands do a formidable job in the healthcare system every day, there is no excuse for them to fail. That's why we have to do even more and do it even better in Norwegian health care.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e651	The President thanked him for having reached retirement age today, but he was happy with the fact that he wanted to hold on for a few more months anyway – and he was pleased that there was only one follow-up question from the Health Committee’s head, Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e654	The Prime Minister referred to the treatment of many more patients than was previously done. The problem is that that's not what's necessarily the big question. The big question is, is the capacity relative to the need? That's the question out there. Obviously, when we get such a significant increase in the number of people on the waiting list, it's a problem. It is a problem for the social economy because the cost of health care increases dramatically. It is a problem for businesses when the workforce is not at work. And that's not least a problem for the individual. One way to solve this is, among other things, to allow private contract specialists — who are part of the public health service, so that the Prime Minister is aware of it — to enter into the free hospital choice scheme, as hospitals are today, in order to make use of the total capacity. Will the Prime Minister take an initiative with the Minister of Health so that this will take place?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e661	Firstly, the main picture is that many more patients are treated, that waiting times are stable. It's been three days up on somatics and two days down on psychiatry. They are essentially stable. What's really interesting is that with so many more people being treated, you still have about unchanged waiting times. But it's not an excuse for those who experience long waiting times. When it comes to extending access to free hospital choice, I don't dare say anything sloppy about it over the table now in the spontaneous Question Time, but it's among the questions I'm going to investigate with the Health Minister, whether it's a topic. The crucial thing for me was to show that we use the public health system as the main instrument, but then we also have private people who make significant and important contributions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e668	The oral question procedure is then over, and we're going to the ordinary question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e673	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 10, from the representative of Laila Davay to the Minister of Health and Welfare, is postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 11, from the representative of Mr Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister for Health and Welfare, is answered by the Minister for Labour and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister for Health and Care, who has been away. Question 15, from the representative, Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve, to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, has been transferred to the Minister for Food and Trade, who is directly responsible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e689	The question is: ‘Proposal for NTP 2010-2019 states: ‘The Government is committed to testing different models of funding for transport projects in order to further develop the knowledge related to the efficient use of resources.’ Nevertheless, the Government will not open up several OPS projects and project financing and debt financing were cancelled by the Government throughout the 2007 budget. Recently, at its national meeting, the Workers' Party has agreed to project funding. Will the Government now expand and amend the funding base for NTP 2010-2019?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e703	I have also registered that at the national meeting of the Labour Party the following was agreed: «in order to ensure the rational development of major transport projects, the Workers' Party will be involved in project financing for road and rail sections.» The government’s view of project financing and the commercial project has been addressed in the 2007 Yellow Book. Project funding is reported to have a range of forms of funding, including ordinary government budget commitments. Another form that many people put into project financing is the scheme of government loans for selected projects, with repayment of interest and repayments over e.g. 25 years. The Government has taken the view that the intention of project financing expressed as a method of ensuring rational design and progress can be achieved within the current budgetary principle. The objective of project financing must be to provide infrastructure projects with funding to enable the project to be planned as a whole and to be implemented in the most rational manner possible. In any case, the project must be prioritised within a defensive budgetary framework. The way we finance the project, we cannot assume that responsibility. The government is busy trying out different models for conducting a commercial project, including: use of new forms of contract and own items in the State budget for selected investment projects. In the national transport plan, three projects have been put on their own posts and can be planned as a single set of projects. As you know, I am open to alternative ways of budgeting large-scale commercial projects. The size notification of the national transport plan is now available in Stortinget. Can not open message something for the Government's efforts to trade over the coming years. It is now natural to wait for the management of the plan in Stortinget. I am sure that the economic framework and the rational progress of the trade project will be an important part of the discussion about the message in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e723	Thanks for the answer. In response, the Councils themselves pointed to what is on page 84 of the NTP proposal on efficient use of resources – ‘three large, integrated investment projects are carried out under their own heading’. Does the Council consider this to be project financing? What is the effect of using project finance if one does not simultaneously change the view of road and rail construction from looking at it as an annual cost to consider it as a long-term investment lasting at least 50 years? Will the effect then be that only some selected projects receive funding, while everyone else has to wait for 50 years?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e732	It is only in the Progress Party's value that a priority should not be given, that no one should wait, that everyone gets their projects up today. In the real world, where one must give priority, some projects will have to wait, while others will be given priority. There will also have to be a choice of project funding. What has been included in the national transport plan takes on the best of project funding, i.e. what has been said to gain, namely rational progress, where the whole project is planned and implemented as a single project and not as a single sub-project. It is important to try it out further and also to test out other strategies: to break up large projects for greater competition, to gather smaller projects into larger ones. It is part of the contract strategy, as we also write about in the national transport plan. We're busy taking with us the best of the experiences you've ever had. Borrowing by road is not necessary in a rich country like Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e739	Thank you again for your answer. In the real world, the funding base for the national transport plan presented was established before the content and effects of the financial crisis and economic decline were known. In the real world, it was also made by three government parties, which afterwards have a different and much more coordinated view of the use of project funding than they had when the plan was made. In the real world, the need for demand stimulation through the modernisation of road networks and networks is widespread. The need for modernisation remains the same as it has been in recent years, but now there is an additional need in the real world to stimulate demand through the modernisation of infrastructure. Therefore, I repeat the question: Will the Government now expand and change the funding base of the National Transport Plan 2010–2019?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e752	The government has presented its national transport plan, a transport plan that is not only designed for a period of decline, but is also designed for an upturn and for a period of growth that will also trigger the recession that we are now experiencing. Then the annual budgets decide how one will dimension that policy out. It's going to be a budget matter. The government does not provide a new transport plan. The government has submitted its transport plan. He's in the Storting. It is up to the parties in Stortinget to process the plan according to their respective regulations. If the presentations from the national meeting of the Labour Party are taken into account and thus taken up as amendments in the national transport plan, the treatment in the Stortinget will have to show.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e762	I will ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Construction start at riksväg 2 between Slomarka and Kongsvinger in Hedmark County is once again exposed. Among other things, there is a lack of money and a lack of a national transport plan. Will the Council of State help to ensure that plant start-ups are not once again postponed?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e771	I refer to my answer to the corresponding question, question 2, in Question Time in Stortinget on Wednesday 25 February 2009. It's got a lot of stuff. the local problem of the solution, and the landowners have tried the case before the judicial system. It's taken time, it's costing money, and that's why the project is something delayed compared to what it was expected to do before. There is now an approved regulatory plan and external quality assurance of the project has been implemented during 2009. In St.meld. No 16, National Transport Plan 2010–2019, suggests that the project is rv. 2 Kongswinger-Slomarka shall start for the first four-year period and be completed for the last six-year period. The integration of the project into the State Road Agency’s 2010–2013 action programme is now under way. I would like to make a separate statement on the matter when there are sufficient clarifications.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e778	I thank the Council of State for the answer. I guess that was maybe March 25th I had a similar question about this, but that's okay. The reason I do it again is because the project is out of date. People get frustrated, and business gets frustrated. Everyone gets frustrated, to say it like that. I can't see why this is being exposed again. You owe, among other things, on money. I can't believe there's any problem either. It must then be possible to move money from the last part of the period to this, if the money is a problem. Or you can raise a loan, for example, or you can find other solutions. Is the Council of State right to treat people and businesses in this way and to make good district policies by postponing, postponing and postponing? One should almost think that when this government promises things, it does not follow with what one promises. There is at least a strong dissatisfaction among people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e787	If this government is to be likened to someone, it must be with previous governments and their powers of action. If one compares the action of this government and this council with the previous government and the previous council – what one set in motion and got implemented – we are very well upright in this government. It has been a heavy process with Rv. 2nd@item: inlistbox The representative knows that very well. This is why quality assurance has not been completed. But she's in the process, the processes are in the process. Processes will run continuously, and the road will be started and completed. There will certainly be a great way, but respect for the fact that processes take time, and that the landowners have the right to try the case for the justice system of a democracy, we must have. Thus, the process would simply have to take the time he takes. The road will be well started and completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e794	I thank you for starting the road. But my question and many others is when this happens, how it happens, and how fast it happens. There were many who were out and flagged when the proposal for the national transport plan was presented. You rusted the Governments, you rusted the Center Party, you rusted the Minister of Transport. But just per. Today, at least not many in my district praise those I now mentioned. You're a little angry, you're disappointed, you're annoyed, and you don't have the glow you had at the beginning when you were in charge of this. My specific question to which I would like a concrete answer is: What can the Council of State promise? And not least, what can the Council of State guarantee in the case of Rv? 2, and this distance in concrete terms?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e803	As long as quality assurance is not carried out, we also have no starting time for the road. In any case, start-ups for different sections, including this one, will be clarifications that come into the budget, and the representative knows that very well. So to ask me a question once in a while about what time it is going to start – the representative Bredvold knows with respect to notify me that I will not answer it. For there are questions that will be clarified in the individual budget proposals. It is part of the national transport plan. Quality assurance is in progress. Of course, there will be money at the time when the government decides when a priority is given between the different projects in the budget. That's the process, that's what they've been doing, and that's the way it's going to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e811	I would like to ask a question to the Minister for Transport: «Avisa Glamdalen writes in his manager on 28 April: «We are also not strangers to the need for a change of government in order to make progress on highway 2 because we have a strong feeling that the Centre Party continues to contribute to the training of this road project.» Hedmark has now experienced that the development of both E6 and Route 2 is still under threat. The glåmdalen has decided a point. Is it more important for the Government to keep living in the expectations of many road projects than to complete and speed up the development of the core life resources?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e820	Planning processes for transport projects are often time-consuming. It is linked to the regulatory framework for planning, which is to ensure that all recordings, objections and mischief are handled in a good manner, the rules of organisation, which are to ensure the rights of all those who have to give up land, as well as the rights and laws for procurement, which are to ensure competition on a level playing field. The clarification before making a decision must therefore take some time. When it comes to the specific project taken up by the representative, Gundersen, I would like to refer to my answer to question 2, from the representative, Mr Bredvold, earlier today. The representative of Gundersen also addresses the issue of the development of E6 between Gardermoen and Colomoen. This is a very important project, especially in terms of road safety on the route. The first sections will be opened for traffic during the fall, and the Ministry of Transport is working to speed up the development. I intend to submit a case to the Stortinget regarding the continuation of the development during the spring. The clarification of the development solution along Mjösa has been demanding, but I think the solution that we have now come up with is a good solution, which takes care of the interests of both road, rail and local environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e831	I thank you for your answer. I want to divide the follow-up into two, because there are two projects, as the Council of State correctly said. When Bredvold and I ask questions that touch on the same thing, I think the council will take it as a signal that the situation around rv. 2 creates very big feelings and a lot of commitment, especially in South Hedmark, but also inward towards Sweden. In fact, there was hope of continuous development of Rv. 2 when the split–Nybakk started. We know, as the Council of State also said, that there have been many obstacles. Many people are being heard, and the justice system is not to be interfered with. But obstacles can also be used to postpone things, and I haven't registered a very large commitment from the Council of State to get greater progress and greater pressure in the process. What's the reason why it's not an engagement? It's a very central lifeblood for the whole of South Hedmark we're talking about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e842	In the Center Party - since the Center Party is particularly mentioned in today's question - we have a strong commitment both to Hedmark, for Rv. 3, for rv. 2 and for E6. The representative from the Central Party and from the other government parties is very active when it comes to promoting Hedmark's interests on the road side. That's the way it should be. It has never been in my mind or in my actions to train neither rv. 2 or other projects. On the contrary, in my time as Minister of Transport, I have tried to get a project as quickly as possible, and not to train. The newspaper Glamdalen must of course be allowed to mean what newspapers will, and insinuate what newspapers will, I can't afford to do that, but I really hope that the representative Gundersen sees that I have presented a lot of road projects and got a lot of clarifications in place. We have also got clarifications in place here and are now working with quality assurance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e849	I do miss the clarifications that have not been made, but we are not going to spend time on that. I also visited the E6 extension, and now I understood the Council of State that she would make a proposition that would ensure the treatment of the last part of the E6 up to the Colomo, i.e. from Minnesund and northwards. I'm glad, and I'm really just going to ask for a confirmation of that, because what I was told was that if not that proposition came in ours, there would be a delay, so that the project would not be finished until 2015. But I realized that the Council of State said that the proposition would come in ours. That's what was supposed to be my follow-up, so I'm really just going to ask for a confirmation that I got it right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e856	As I said, it has always been my goal to have continuous expansion. It has been difficult with the clarifications on E6, and I am happy that it has come to a clarification now. After that clarification, we have been working on a bomb to get the cause for Stortinget in our house, and if nothing quite unexpected would happen, I hope to be able to bring her to treatment now in our house. It is important that things are presented, so that one can continue the important work of seeing the next sections on offer, with the approval of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e865	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister for Foreign Affairs: ‘Recently, messages have been received indicating that the Kashmir conflict is being escalated. One reason for this is the ice front that reigns between India and Pakistan as a result of the terrorist attack on Mombay, which led to the collapse of the peace talks between the two countries. Furthermore, the unrest in Kashmir is affected by the conflicts in Pakistan and Afghanistan and vice versa. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs view the possibility of raising the Kashmir conflict on the international agenda so that constructive peace talks can begin?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e874	I thank the representative Lånke for the question. Kashmir is a conflict-filled and highly militarized area. There has been a conflict between India and Pakistan for over fifty years and gave rise to two wars. Like the representative, I have registered that there have been reports of growing unrest in recent Indian-controlled Kashmir. This is worrying. Developments in the area are probably also marked by the growing political turmoil in Pakistan. Since 1972, India and Pakistan have agreed that negotiations on a solution to the Kashmir issue should follow a bilateral track. In January 2004, the two countries launched a broad bilateral dialogue. This showed, for a time, small but clear signs of progress. Unfortunately, it was iced, as the representative pointed out in the question, after the terrorist attacks on Mombay last November. At the same time, it is this way that the two countries have to find their way back. The international community — and Norway — must do what we can to encourage such developments. However, this is only likely to happen when the ongoing Indian parliamentary elections are over and a new elected government is in place at the beginning of June. Let me add that until now the two parties have not shown an agreement to ask a third party to contribute to a solution through organisation or mediation. So that's the bilateral track to which hope must be attached. India, as I said, is conducting its fifteenth parliamentary elections, and the outcome will be known only after the nationwide census on 16 May. However, let me point to an interesting aspect of the elections and election participation in the state of Jammu and Kashmir. There were now leaders of individual political parties and groups who have previously actively boycotted democratic elections as candidates for the local assembly. The turnout was not high, but it was significantly higher than the last. This confirms a trend from the elections to the new Land Assembly last December, where election attendance was record high, despite a very difficult security situation, particularly in Kashmir. This commitment to active political participation is new – and it is positive. We must therefore hope that the elections will provide the basis for a new government that translates this trend into a positive mandate to resume the bilateral dialogue. If this development grows politically robust, it could be a model of political inclusion for the other countries of South Asia in terms of content and form. However, it is likely that such a development can be confirmed. For the time being, the increased tension gives cause for concern — not least in view of the high level of tension, the presence of militant groups and the fundamental fact that India and Pakistan are nuclear weapons states. The more important it is, therefore, that the international community — and Norway — push for a peaceful solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e902	I thank the Council of State for the answer. In the Council's response, there was a thorough analysis of the situation, in relatively few words. Nevertheless, I think the analysis is serious and reason to share. Of course, there's hope that people end up choosing in this area. There are also elections in these days for the Indian Parliament, although that may not be what people occupy most anyway. The anxiety around the region exerts a pressure on the situation here, and the danger of war is certainly greater than in the Kashmir area for a long time. We are sincerely hoping that the government of Pakistan will have control of the situation, so that it will bring peace. It will also lead to greater hope of peace in Kashmir. The Minister for Foreign Affairs mentioned the question of the participation of a third party in any conversation, and perhaps he did not see so much hope of getting it done. What is the situation now in view of the international community's commitment to Kashmir? Is there any hope of exerting greater pressure on the parties?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e913	I think I would say, on a general basis, yes to the press and yes to the availability of the parties to assist in that process. But I believe the Minister for Development, who is sitting here, and I – who has traveled and engaged us in this region – well record the attitude that in Pakistan there will be some enquiries as to whether it can be a contribution. India is very clear that this must happen bilaterally. In the past, the parties have chosen bilateral as their principal approach, and since 2004 there has been little, but considerable progress. So we know that the reactions of the outside world are counting. Bill Clinton's commitment around 2000, when it was high voltage, contributed enough to dampen the tensions. So the states around must contribute. One problem is that South Asia is the world’s most conflict-affected region, which lacks cooperation arrangements between countries to deal with the situation in which it comes. But all these reasons why it's difficult, can be no more than a reason for us and the international community to engage us, contribute to the creation of such arrangements, and put pressure on the parties, so that they find a peaceful way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e922	Once again, I thank the Council of State for the answer. As we know, the Kashmiri people have suffered very much for a long time. Civilians have suffered, and human rights have been seriously violated, and it is still happening. Recently, mass graves were discovered near the border of Pakistan on the Indian side, which tells of a bloodbath. In the spring of 2007, I sent a written question to the Minister for Foreign Affairs about the access and work opportunities of humanitarian organisations in Kashmir. At that time, it was demonstrated that the dialogue between India and Pakistan, including the Kashmir question, had been brought up on official visits to India, both by the Prime Minister and by the Minister of Foreign Affairs of Norway, and that, on a general basis through the UN, efforts were being made to improve both access and employment opportunities for humanitarian organisations in the area. Nothing has happened very positively in view of the access of these organisations today. Kashmir is still closed for most of them, including Amnesty International. To what extent has the Government followed up this since 2007, and what will be done in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e933	I can confirm about the same thing that was in my 2007 response. That's the channels we follow. It's in the diplomatic talks we have with India. They are frequent — more frequent than before. We are now working in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with a broad India strategy that is going to draw us even closer to India, both politically and economically, also in the discussions we have with Pakistani authorities. But, as the representative knows, this country is now in the midst of many demanding conflicts. It's a problem to focus on each one of them. As the representative said in the question, the Afghanistan–Pakistan conflict is the most acute and perhaps the most dangerous, but it is a paradox that the dangerous Kashmir situation has not become any less dangerous, but it has come down to the agenda because another conflict, which is even more dangerous, has arisen. The sum of very dangerous situations is a very dangerous region. Therefore, we must work both politically and, of course, for humanitarian, for human rights organisations, for the International Red Cross – these organisations that can make a difference for an emergency population.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e943	«Many hydropower plants in Norway, especially the old ones where the concessions are matured for audit, do not meet today's environmental and multifunctional requirements. In its recommendation on the implementation of the EU Water Directive in Norway, a broad majority of the Committee on Energy and the Environment pointed out the need to include revisions of hydropower concessions in the work on action plans under the Water Directive. How will the Council of State follow up on the fact that this is happening in practice, so that we can see concrete environmental improvements?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e950	I thank you for the question. Let me first say that I am very pleased with the overall support of the Stortinget for the inclusion of the EU Water Directive in the EEA Agreement. I also welcome the broad opening up of the need for real environmental improvements in regulated watercourses. I also share the wording of the questioner related to the issue of minimum water flow, the development of river policy, and the EU Water Directive. Future revisions of concession conditions in regulated watercourses and implementation of the Water Directive must be seen in a coherent way. The local analysis of each water area will provide important input into the audit process, and the regional management plans will guide the audits. When the audit is first carried out, it will help to provide the basis for setting environmental objectives and programmes of action. In the first phase of the plan, regional management plans shall be drawn up for some selected water areas. Following the adoption of the management plan by the county and government, it will guide the further efforts of the sectors to manage water resources. Measures requiring the revision of concession terms in regulated watercourses will be included in the plan. The audit process shall carry out a concrete assessment weighing all societal considerations. The main objective will be to improve the environmental conditions of regulated watercourses, including addressing the issue of minimum watercourses in places where it has not been so far. However, this consideration needs to be weighed against other societal considerations, including: addressing climate challenges and the need for new renewable energy. In this picture, it will be an important task to ensure that the application of water slipping is prioritised for watercourse sections where the major environmental improvements are achieved. Substantial environmental improvements can be achieved by audits of old hydropower plants. Even smaller water slips can improve the watercourse environment. In addition, audits will also include measures such as thresholds, improvement of migration opportunities for fish, restoration and clean-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e965	I thank you for the answer and the positive basic tone that I perceive lies in it. I would ask the Council of State to confirm the arrangements requested by the Committee that this should be coordinated in the context of the work on the Water Directive and its follow-up. The result will be a new policy in this area, where environmental considerations are given greater emphasis, and where a clear aim is to improve the quality of the environment in some watercourses where this was not high on the agenda when the concessions were initially granted. The second question I have is whether there has been a work to ensure that this perception, this approach to the issue is shared by the Ministry of Oil and Energy and underlying agencies, here in concrete NVE, so that one gets a holistic approach to this, where both the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environment are working in the same direction.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e972	I can assure you that what I am presenting here, of course, is a common view of the Government. You have to go through the hydroelectric audits and start with those that are most important and where there is the greatest potential for improvement. I also think I can say that it probably wouldn't take more than the fraction of a second for the questioner and me to agree in these areas. I feel absolutely sure that both Left and SV will be driving forces here. Then, of course, there will be social balances, which everyone will understand, between the need for clean energy from hydropower and the need for minimum water flow. You'll probably also encounter resistance and contradictions related to pure conservatism, but we'll have that disagreement when it comes. Let there be no doubt that the Ministry of the Environment and I will do everything we can to make improvements. But of course, we have to select areas where there is the greatest potential for improvement, and where relatively limited reduction of the hydropower potential through minimum water flow can provide the best results. That's where we have to start.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e979	I perceive the answer so that the Minister for the Environment confirms that there will be an increased emphasis on environmental considerations when assessing the revision of concessions, and that the forces that want only a blue copy of the conditions that were before, and tone down environmental concerns, will not reach. I would like to underline what is the Committee's opinion. It's that you have to emphasize this more strongly than before, that this is going to be a real reorientation and not just a recording that you can ignore as an opinion. Finally, I would like to ask that one keep the pressure on this important work, because in the phase we are currently in in hydropower policy, this is one of the areas where one can get more environmental improvement. I would like to invite the Council of State to engage in dialogue and cooperation in order to obtain the results that underpin the comments of the Committee on Energy and the Environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e988	I can confirm everything the questioner here says. I think it's very positive that the committee puts a clear lead here. The government does not see what the majority of the Storting Committees say, as mere opinions. We see it as clear leadership for what policy should be. I see the formulations on which the questioner starts, as clear leadership. Let me also say that the EU Water Directive is a very positive directive. It could help drive Norwegian environmental policies in a greener direction. It will probably be more important in countries with much bigger problems than Norway, but generally the introduction of this type of EU directive has had a dramatic impact in Europe on the improvement of environmental policies in each country. Norway must also take this directive. When we take it, we must take it seriously and see it as an incentive for us to take steps in the right direction too.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e998	‘The undersigned has repeatedly challenged the Government to support the work of testing a so-called biomembrane, which can be of great value in climate, environmental, agricultural and aid contexts. The product has been tried several places in the world. The current state council, Åslaug Haga, promised the NRK on 15 November 2007 that the government would help the product. In the United States, public authorities are interested in a scientific study of the product’s potential, but lack signals from Norwegian authorities. Will the Government ensure that Norway contributes to the testing of the biomembrane in the United States?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1005	The world is facing very serious climate change. Global average temperature has increased by about 0.8 degrees in relation to pre-industrial levels, and we are now on a track that, if not drastic action is taken, will lead humanity to 4-5 degrees of increased warming over the next 100 years. This increase is expected to continue even if we were to manage to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from now on. I am aware that the so-called biomembrane from Albedo Tech, among others, is intended to increase the energy reflectance from the earth and thus to lower the temperature. It's inspiring to hear about such an invention. As I said earlier, I think that this technology is promising, although of course it is difficult – almost impossible – for a government council to personally make a technology assessment. There is good dialogue between Albedo Tech and my department on all aspects related to the further development of technology. I've had my own meeting with Albedo Tech's representatives in Norway. It was planned a meeting with their American representatives when I was in the United States a week ago, but because they didn't have an opportunity at the time I could, it wasn't a meeting of any of them. But I'd like to meet them again on the next occasion. I am also more than prepared to discuss the matter with the US authorities, and I am prepared to take the initiative to talk to them in order to clarify the extent of the real interest on the American side. There is attention to technology in the United States, and we will help clarify its size, and what Americans may be willing to contribute – at authority level. Innovation Norway has already supported Albedo Tech, and we have recently encouraged Albedo Tech to continue to seek support through the regular channels, such as: Innovation Norway. So in sum, yes, this is an exciting, new technology that is all sorts of reasons for supporting, but also Albedo Tech has to go through the usual channels to convince professionals about the importance of its technology. But I am willing to use my status as Minister for the Environment and Development to be a door opener and to have dialogue with the US authorities in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1020	The answer can be seen as positive. But I know the story and I talk to Albedo Tech quite often, and the experience from their side is a little bit different. Here one doesn't initially need a door opener to the U.S. authorities. I myself have spoken to several congressmen in the United States who have a great desire and willingness to do this. The problem is that they don't know what Norwegian authorities want. So they would rather need a door opener into the Norwegian government and a government that is willing to commit, not just refer to the bureaucracy, but that can actually say that this is such a potentially important instrument for many Norwegian aid, climate, environmental, agricultural and food purposes that here the state will go in and see if this product can keep it legal. It may be an important instrument for the Norwegian authorities. This is where the government has not taken the decisive hold. In Mongstad and Kårstø you do it, but when it comes to small amounts like this, you refer to bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1025	Let me start by inviting the Advance Party to think about what kind of society we'd get if state councils – based on what you personally like and dislike, what you believe and don't believe in, in areas where government councils and also depositors have very limited prerequisites to understand what will succeed, and what will not succeed – should choose freely and give support to it, but then reject 50 others. We need to have a system in Norway where professionals go in and assess the different technologies, because only professionals have a reasonable prospect of assessing it – when we waste taxpayers’ money, and when we spend taxpayers’ money in a sensible way. That is why my answer is that Albedo Tech must also convince the professional bodies that are set to do this, but I have a wide-open door, and I have SMS exchanges and telephone exchanges with their representatives in Norway. I am prepared to make an absolute effort to do this, but Albedo Tech must also convince the professionals that they are eligible under the usual support schemes that we have in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1032	This is about political action. So when you talk about getting CO2 clean-up, the government has gone through a race on Mongstad and Kårstø that has not been through this process that the Council of State is now talking about, and where one spends billions of dollars. What you're asking for from the American side, in order for them to trigger $3 million, is that Norway makes up $1 million. It's very small amounts. I am not saying here that Norway is going to go in and say that we are buying this product. It's something completely different. What I'm saying is that when one sees such a potential promising product as this, one should join in and ensure that scientific testing can take place, for Norway – the Norwegian Government and the Norwegian Storing – have as much self-interest in the upside as this can give. This isn't about spending a lot of money and starting to say yes to everything, as indicated by the Council of State, but it's about some things that seem so important, just as the Government has seen the CO2 cleaning on Kårstø, that one actually cuts through and says that we will. With as little amounts as we're talking about here, it's important to get started before a goes missing another growing season.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1047	Since the questioner who normally chooses to be angry instead of seeing the positive opportunities offered by the world, let me just repeat: I am willing to have dialogue with American authorities. Through that dialogue, we can clarify whether the US authorities are actually prepared to do what we hear, to make a substantial amount available. Of course, this will also have an impact on Norwegian assessments. Because if the US authorities choose to bet on something, it is certainly done on the basis of a professional — not a personal/political — assessment, and it will also affect our response. Let me also mention the incredible paradox: a party that does not believe that climate change exists should tell us that we are going to travel to the United States and promote a technology that is to limit climate change. What the Progress Party is saying is that we are going to sell to the Americans something the Americans don't need – according to the Progress Party's own opinion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1054	President, there was an obvious factual error.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1062	‘The Council of State is unable to clean up the passport for persons who have lived in Norway throughout their lives and where they are registered with another nationality after birth: [[1961-1979]] How long will the Council of State wait for the report, and when will the Council of State settle these matters?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1069	It is true that some people have had Norwegian passports despite being non-Norwegian nationals. Former Minister of Labour and Inclusion Bjarne Håkon Hanssen presented this issue in the Questionnaire on 30 April 2008. When the persons concerned apply to renew their passports, they will be refused the passport. If they want Norwegian citizenship, they must apply for it. Some do not wish to fulfil the conditions for the acquisition of Norwegian citizenship, for example: the requirement to fulfil the conditions of the residence permit. According to current practice, the Foreign Affairs Directorate assesses such cases in accordance with the dispensation clause of Section 19 of the National Act. Since the entry into force of the Civil Code on 1 September 2006, an estimated 2-3 issues have been raised with this issue per year. years. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion instructed the Directorate of Foreign Affairs and Foreign Affairs in August 2008 to give priority to the handling of such applications. All applications have been accepted, and they have been prioritised in the foreign administration. The questioner specifically addresses some specific issues. Some children born in marriage between a foreign father and a Norwegian mother in the period 1961 to 1979 did not have Norwegian citizenship after birth. However, a notification system was introduced in 1979 to enable these children to become Norwegian nationals by notification. The condition was that the mother sent a notification that the child would become Norwegian, and that at the time of the notification the mother was Norwegian, had a share in parental responsibility, and that the child was under 18 years of age. If any of those groups have not become Norwegian by notification, they must apply for Norwegian citizenship in the usual way. For those who have wrongly received a Norwegian passport, according to current practice, the UDI will give priority to the examination of their applications for citizenship, including the assessment of the exemption under the dispensation clause of Section 19 of the National Act. My department has investigated possible solutions and proposals for changes to the legislation for persons who have been issued passports on the wrong basis. The proposal will be sent to the hearing, together with a number of other proposals for amendments to the Civil Code and the National Code. I'm prepared to find a reasonable solution for this group.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1080	I thank the Council of State for the answer. What's special is that this applies to a very small number of people, there are very few people involved. This could be cleaned up without a lot of bureaucratic summer meal and without creating new legislation. This would apply once if the authorities made direct contact with the persons involved. Then you could clean this up without having to start appliances to search and pay a lot of money to get the citizenship that you obviously think you have. Does not the Council of States agree that instead of using a lot of bureaucracy – mass back and forth – one should also make sure to clean up these few issues? We've soon used a lot more resources just to discuss back and forth than to find a good solution for the people involved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1087	I said in my first answer that we are about to clean up these matters. But if we're going to clean them up, we're going to have to make sure that we have a regulation that allows for that. We have to do this in a legal and sustainable way, not least for the sake of those who are going to become citizens. That is why we are planning to send out a prescription. I can suggest, without committing myself to the date, that it is likely to happen during June. Then we will also consider any exemption from the passport fee for this type of special case. I can reassure the representative Hoksrud that this will be cleaned up in a reasonably short time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1092	I am pleased that the Council of State now says that the regulation is coming reasonably quickly. I also think it is good to say that you will consider whether you want to remove the fee. Many of the people involved feel that they are Norwegian, and have always experienced themselves as Norwegians. They have been issued a Norwegian passport, so they react very strongly to the need to submit a new application. They experience that they are Norwegian, and that they have been Norwegian all their lives, and they have lived their whole lives in Norway. But they suddenly feel, after they have had passports many times before, that the passport does not apply, and that they are not Norwegian citizens. That's why I had the hope that you would make sure to clean this up, and that's why it's good that the regulation comes. I hope it becomes so simple that those who handle passports in the different police districts can clean this up in a simple and straightforward way, so that we can get this done once and for all. Then you're rid of the challenges these people face.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1099	As I have already said, I agree that this is a relationship we need to clear up. That's why we're cleaning it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1107	‘The test project with task differentiation in the city of St. Hanshaugen Oslo provides good results. The pilot project shall be completed during the harvest. Unemployment continues to rise, rising most in Oslo in this part of the city. At the same time, we see that Nav is under pressure. A unanimous Urban Committee now wants to extend the project so that the activity of the qualification centre is maintained at least at the current level. Will the Council of State grant permission to the City of St. Hanshaugen for this possibility?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1114	Following a request from the Municipality of Oslo in 2004 and 2005, attempts were made to implement municipal labour market measures in four urban areas. The purpose was to test municipal overall responsibility for persons for whom the municipality has responsibility for income insurance. The experiment was to be completed by the end of 2007 but was extended to end the experiment at the time of establishment of the Nav office in the districts. This means that the test in the last district, St. Hanshaugen, will be completed by the end of 2009. The measures include: used for the purchase of external actions and the implementation of own municipal action sites. The Nav reform establishes a common first line in which state and local authorities place resources in a joint office to provide even better services. The continuation of the task differentiation test will take focus away from the establishment of a common first line service. The government has just proposed a significant strengthening of the Employment and Welfare Act. This, along with the organisational steps taken by the establishment itself, facilitates a good implementation of the tasks, including in Oslo. In parallel, labour market measures are stepped up. As from the end of the task differentiation tests, the urban areas no longer dispose of the State resources. However, the funds are available within the action appropriations for the Employment and Welfare Act under the conditions applicable to them. In order to avoid habilitation problems and role-sharing, the State action legislation requires that municipal labour market measures financed by state resources must be operated in separate units, separately from the Nav office. When satisfied, the municipality may be the organiser of State labour market measures in line with other actors, in line with the legislation in force. Municipalities are also free to carry out, by their own means, actions which are not governed by State action law. We are likely to agree on the importance of providing good and effective services when unemployment increases. The municipalities will continue to be an important player in the work, within the principles and frameworks set by the Nav reform for both the state and the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1125	After hearing the answer, I think I almost have to repeat the question, because I don't know if the council got the question. This test project – as one calls it – with task differentiation is driven by a different model from that of Nav in other corresponding urban areas and municipalities. The question was, would you like to continue with a test project after this model? The reason for the question is that this has proved to be a better response to return to work than similar measures in other cities and urban areas, and that there is a unanimous political body in the urban district. We can say that a city in this context is – to compare with what the state council knows – similar to a city somewhat larger than Horten. So a unanimous city council has gone in to extend the trial project. I repeat the question: will the Council allow the city to have this opportunity?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1132	No, no, no. But then I added something to my answer: all the measures that are supposed to help those users who need help are in the Nav system. To take one example: one of the best innovative actions in Nav is the introduction programme, a programme aimed at helping people who have had long-term social assistance as the sole source of income protection. They're now getting a fixed benefit, but then they're going into a program to get help to get back to work. Now we've done it like that. It's the municipality that has the social part of Nav, but all of the state instruments are also available for the municipal part of Nav. And just to underline it: if an application had come from Horten, the assessment would be the same as what I'm expressing now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1141	I understand that the Council of State is equally bureaucratic towards all municipalities. But I'm a little surprised that when a city, city council or municipality wants to take responsibility for themselves, and points out that their project has given better results than all comparable ones because it operates according to a different model than it has been done so far, the department is, I almost get to say – because I know more of the department in the answer than of the council – so bureaucratic that you say that this cannot continue. Why can't what works continue, when it's proven to work better than what the Council of State now says will happen afterwards, after the test project is finished?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1146	I try again: it is such that some of the measures claimed by the representative, rightly, have worked well, as many other actions within the Nav system work well, can be continued. It is about a range of tools that can be offered to those who need help to get back to work. In addition, within the regulatory framework we have, flexibility can also be demonstrated, and that is what has happened, profitably, in the district of St. Hanshaugen. With regard to what the representative described, that a municipality is asking to take over government tasks, I think it would be – and I hope the representative agrees – a strange practice if the municipalities that want it could take over selected parts of the state business. I would rather advise the representative to contribute – via the Municipality of Oslo and its parishes there – that the municipality's efforts via the Nav community further strengthen the offer, as Nav is meant as, as a cooperation between the state and the municipality.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1156	‘The UDI has proposed to shut down the so-called Torshov project in its current form and the Foreign Affairs Department of the Police has withdrawn from the project. What will the Government do to stop this and ensure that the project continues to give priority to groups that will be rejected in the main?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1163	Let me first stress that the Torshov project is to be continued. Case groups that need special follow-up with a view to rapid clarification will be dealt with at Torshov. Last autumn, we set up a rapid response unit to cases involving lone asylum seekers from Iraq. This project has been very successful. As the arrival of Iraqis has fallen, an attempt has been made to complement the Torshov project with other groups, but gradually a group, the composition of which is so fragmented, that one has no longer benefited from the Torshov concept optimally. Continuous adaptation is therefore necessary to address the challenges of a rapidly changing situation. Clear rejections from Iraq and other high-denomination groups will continue to be dealt with quickly, although they will not be brought together in Torshov for practical reasons. This will take place in close cooperation with the Foreign Affairs Directorate and the Foreign Affairs Unit. At the same time, one can use the experience of the project to manage another priority group, namely single minor asylum seekers, who have been a rapidly growing group in recent months and now make up 13 pst. by asylum seekers. 65 pst. by all lone minor asylum seekers are currently coming from Afghanistan. High arrivals of lone minor asylum seekers are currently the biggest challenge in the foreign administration. By setting up a rapid procedure for the initiation of proceedings, one could obtain faster clarifications and also have the opportunity to identify the clear rejection cases at an early stage, i.e. after the same idea as the Torshov project was established, but for other groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1172	One cannot say that the Torshov project will continue as long as the Torshov project becomes completely different when the Foreign Office of the Police will no longer be co-located with the UDI, to get a quick clearance for those groups that have a high rejection rate. Then this becomes something else, there's going to be a special unit in the UDI for lonely minors. That's also the reason why the Foreign Affairs Department uses when they withdraw from the project. This has been one of the government's showcasing points for the few measures taken to limit inflow, and now one sees this crumbling. Wouldn't it be better for the Torshov project to be concentrated on those who were refused, and where the Foreign Affairs Unit of the police was still co-located with the UDI?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1179	Now, as the representative of course knows, the Foreign Affairs Department is not in my department. I had not objected to the fact that the Foreign Affairs Department of the police continued to operate in the Torshov project. But the Torshov project is continuing. I have received assurances from the UDI that the Foreign Affairs Department of the police will do a quick job on the issues that are being prioritised in the Torshov project in the past. So we're talking about a geographical movement. Then I understood the representative there, and that is the main question, that there is consensus that the Torshov project should deal with matters where there is a great likelihood of rapid rejection – that it is in line with that idea. So it's UDI's assessment, and I share it. There may be other groups for which there is now more urgency, as the group from Iraq, which can be defined in this category, has been significantly reduced, which is just proof that the Torshov project has worked.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1186	The fact that the Police Aliens Unit is not the responsibility of the Council of State should not prevent him from talking to the party trap that is responsible for the Foreign Affairs Unit of the Police. One of the main problems with Norwegian broadcasting policy is that we do not have a comprehensive, strong broadcasting policy in Norway. That is why the Right has promoted a complete Document No. Eight proposals for a new broadcasting policy. The question to the Council of State is this: does it mean that the Torshov project will not focus on lone minors, who are not essentially receiving a refusal, but are concentrating on those who come from countries where they are largely refused?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1193	As I said, the group from Iraq was selected because there was a large proportion who got rejected, and we knew it would have an effect that the rejections came quickly. I have the impression that we agree that it was a good solution. However, that group has been significantly reduced, and then one has tried to fill with other groups of countries. This does not give one the same effect out of specialised competence in a country – with land skills, etc. So it's like that over 20 pst. of those who claim to be lone minors, it is not. It provides the basis for a rapid rejection and return. That's why it has now been selected as the next theme. If the Iraq Group is to grow again, it may be appropriate to resume Iraq. The point is the good idea at all times. I have the impression that we agree that the Torshov project is a good idea, and that it can be used to different groups as the composition of the arrival changes. I think that's the right approach.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1203	From the representative of Laila Davay to the Minister for Health and Welfare: ‘Manual therapists have for more than three years been primary contacts in healthcare for the purpose of diagnosing, referring to specialist healthcare, health care providers, etc. However, manual therapists do not have their own authorization. This creates frustrating and costly ambiguities, in some cases an acute threat to patients’ health, including: in hospitals that reject emergency patients because they are referred from ‘physiotherapist’. Will the Council of State now take action and follow up Storting's leadership on the authorisation of manual therapists?»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1211	This question has been postponed to the next question hour.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1217	This question, from Harald T. Nesvik to the Minister of Health and Welfare, will be answered by the Minister of Labour and Inclusion on behalf of the Minister of Health and Care.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1220	I would like to ask the Minister of Health and Health the following questions, to which I understand the Minister of Labour and Inclusion will answer: ‘Through the media it is now regularly reminded that several health businesses are already struggling with the economy and a very difficult economic situation is reported. Both Health Nordmøre and Romesdal and Health Sunnmøre already report the need for new savings. We can read about this both in Romsdal's Budstikke and in Sunnmørsposten, April 29. Can the Council of State explain the economic situation of the health business of the country after the first quarter?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1229	Let me first make it clear that it is the Council of State, in line with the Storting's assumptions, that demands the economic result in each of the four health regions, not for the individual health business. That's what regional health companies do. I trust that regional health businesses are setting up their businesses and allocating the budgets of Storting between their own health companies in a good way and for the benefit of patients. The budget for the current year is the best healthcare business ever had. However, like all other sectors, health enterprises must relate to the appropriations made available by the Storting through the State budget, something else would be fundamentally undemocratic. The Ministry received financial reporting for the first quarter from regional health enterprises two days ago, and in the coming days follow-up meetings with all regions based on this reporting will be held. The Ministry will receive an updated overview of the economic situation around the country through these meetings. A preliminary review of the reporting per year. of March, i.e. The first quarter shows that all regional health enterprises report an estimated balance sheet profit or loss, i.e. in line with our management requirements. I understand that even with a good budget, it will be difficult to meet this requirement in several health businesses, and the representative Nesvik has commented on the situation of Health Nordmøre and Romsdal and Health Sunnmøre in his question. Health Sunnmare has a result per year. March, which is behind the budget. This is explained by the fact that several departments have difficulties in getting the activity up at the budget level. The health company has identified different migration measures for 2009, one of which is a patient flow project that started in 2008. The project is comprehensive and deals with better quality for both patients and employees. In addition, there are expected financial gains due to better planned and implemented patient trajectories. This is a good example of the fact that there is no contradiction between medical quality and good financial management. Health Nordmøre and Romsdal now report a minor negative deviation from the budget. The deviation is explained by lower activity and hence activity-dependent income combined with additional consumption of wages and salaries. Recent measures taken by the Governing Board include: the release of treatment capacity through the reduction of out-of-print patients, restrictions on overtime and rental, restrictions on training, conferences and travels out of the health undertaking which is not subject to contractual, regulatory or completely necessary for the day-to-day operation, and better coordination of patient transport. In conclusion, I would like to stress that these two health businesses are an important part of Health Mid-Norway, which has met Storting's performance requirements in the last two years. For the current year, the performance requirements imposed by Health Mid Norway on their health businesses are also somewhat stricter than those imposed by the Stortinget on the regional health company. Health Mid-Norway has chosen to meet challenging economic challenges in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1251	Thank you to the Council of State for your answer. I'll understand it if the Council of State now wants to have some problems responding to the follow-up that comes, but it's still coming. State Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen as Minister for Health not only has a responsibility – as is said here – towards regional health companies. The Council of State and the Government of the Ministry are responsible for the overall health care in Norway, i.e. all hospitals, and for patients to receive help. Then, of course, it's the way to run through regional health businesses. I will refer you to the following from the director Helge Aarseth in Health North Moravia and Romesdal: People have to expect a few days longer waiting for treatment that is not immediate help. This means that the waiting times for treatment will increase. In the case of hospital director Bjørn Engum, he says: «If we reduce the activity, we risk losing income as well.» So here you've come into an evil circle. In Health Sunnmowers this is about approx. Fifteen million. kr related to activity, of the 75,5 million. kr. The second is expenditure on pensions. How do you want to attack these things to stop this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1271	In my answer I described the guideline. It is clear that the government is responsible for the situation in Health-Norway. But in the case of the directrix, it's the way I described it. That means that on the basis of the reports that have come in now two days ago, as I said, Health Mid-Norway, which is relevant in this case, will attend the meetings that are to take place, where one will go through the situation in the individual part of the Health Mid-Norway region. As the representative probably noticed, I also mentioned in my reply that some of the challenge lies on the income side, as one had not come up with the activity that would give the activity income that was foreseen. It suggests that keeping a high level of activity is, of course, a measure of the patient’s need for treatment, but in addition, it could have a positive effect on the outcome, because some of the failure is therefore on the income side.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1278	But the problem is that by taking up the activity one also eats of the framework funding, because this government has made sure that the input-driven part of the funding is 40 pst. The average cost of a treatment is 53 pst. per 1 % patients, i.e. each time an increase in activity occurs, an additional one of the framework funding is eaten. So this is probably an evil circle as long as the ISF ratio is 40 pst. My main question was about the economic situation after the first quarter in general in Norway. Health Nordmøre and Romesdal and Health Sunnmare were used as an example. But it's not just there: we're constantly getting examples of hospitals that are now struggling financially. This applies, inter alia, to: pension costs, which are a large part of these things. My question to the Council of State is this: Will the Council of State ensure that the Storting is now presented with a statement relating to the economic situation, so that we do not once again get to grips with the economic situation, but that the Storting can also, through revision, take the measures necessary to achieve its objectives?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1287	It is that when we deal with the revision, we deal with current issues in all budget areas, and, of course, the health policy area will also be mentioned there, without going into details of what my colleague is going to put in as part of his revised budget. However, it is a natural process that the health situation is also discussed in the review. That being said, I explained some of the measures that the current part of Health Norway that was used as an example has taken to reduce course activity when it is not strictly necessary, etc. Many of those measures are not consistent with what the representative said that patients have to wait; on the contrary, more of the measures taken should be taken. Then there may be other measures that are necessary, which may have the effect that it goes beyond the time of treatment. But this will be discussed by the Minister of Health in his meetings with the health regions, and Health Mid-Norway is one of the regions that has delivered good results both economically and healthily in recent years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1297	‘With effect from 1 January 2009, we have received a new Public Relations Act. The new law will contribute to increased transparency in general government. How will the Council of State help the State sector to practice the new law in accordance with the letter and intention of the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1304	The new public law is a good hub for greater openness in the public sector. Both the Ministry of Justice and the ‘mit’ Directorate, the Directorate of Administration and ICT, DIFI, have arranged and will organise courses in public law, and the Ministry of Justice has created a guide to the new law. A fundamental principle of our democracy is that the citizens have the right to have access to the file of public activity. To this end, it is important to strengthen this right, inter alia: to ensure a wide participation in democratic processes. The new public law just strengthens the right to transparency in public activities. One example is that the journals of a number of public bodies will now be available on the Internet in a dedicated portal that we call Public Electronic Mail Journal, OEP. It will clearly strengthen the public principle. This will be a public journal search website, and can be used by all citizens, against what is today about 30 media houses, which have the type of access to the postal journals in these bodies. From OEP you can also see things into documents from the public. Those who will be included in the first round are: all the departments and offices of the Prime Minister all the State Directorates which have the whole country as their field of activity all the State supervision which has the whole country as the territory of the counties; Then, on March 31, this year, I sent out a draft of the State's communication policy, with a deadline of 1 July. It will replace the current information policy and contain three new principles. It is the principle of openness, participation and reaching all relevant citizens. Then I have recently, on April 3rd, the big message "For administration for democracy and community". It also contains a set of principles for how central government should work and be organised. Transparency is one of the most common words in the message, and we have used space to describe new public law, what is new in it, and what demands it makes on public works. The message responds to questions of openness and transparency, which I perceive lies in the representative’s question. FAD's role is in different ways to be a driver in the development of administration. We have placed great emphasis on building up a central administrative policy apparatus to gather and disseminate knowledge, identify developments, not least identify areas of improvement within and across sectors and implement joint actions where necessary. DIFI plays a central role in this and has taken a number of measures that have benefited from enterprises, leaders and employees in relation to competences and when it is necessary to take users seriously, but not least in relation to openness. In addition to this, we are preparing an online overview of all the hearing cases – there has been a lot of discussion about the length of the hearing. We are now making an online overview of where all the departments are gathered, which will both give an overview of the number of cases and not least have a basis when one might choose to use less than three months' hearing time on the issues that we send out. There are some of the measures we are now taking to ensure that we get a follow-up to public law.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1334	I thank you for the answer, which sets out good and important actions that have been taken. I also perceive that the Council of State is expressing that she wants to be a driver in order to increase transparency in government. It is emphasised in the Public Health Act that an evaluation should be based on an evaluation. I would like to ask the Council of State to explain a little bit about whether she will have the instruments, the measurements, that need to see that the new law actually works and increases transparency. There is then a question of the practice in each department whether she will follow this closely from month to month to see that it is moving in the right direction. Former State Councillor Lars Sponheim used an open-label poster in his department to help make the threshold for refusing transparency requests the highest possible. My question is also whether one sees the need for such measures in each instance, each department, in order to keep the pressure on the transparency line continuous.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1341	It is quite obvious that it is important that not only myself, but – as the representative of Kvassheim is involved – each state council is a driver of the new public law. It is a collective government behind it, and there is a great deal of excitement about it in the Stortinget, not least from the Left Party and the Kvassheim representative. Some of what I think is the recipe for success when it comes to reaching the important regulations, is that this does not become a single measure and perhaps a web page or whatever it should be, but that it has to sit in the back of each case manager, on each individual tenant and on each state council. It must be part of the practical policy and of the practical implementation of the procedural tasks. What we're going to do is we're going to make a part of our policy visible. The website that comes up for hearing matters will show this practice in each department. Public electronic mail journals are just giving each individual citizen of this country not only access to the mail, but also the ability to ask for much more transparency and actually obtain the file.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1348	For the last time, since 1993, we have had a sample system of electronic mail records for a selected number of media houses. It has worked well for them. This should now be extended to become a public electronic record service. When will it be implemented? It was supposed to be implemented at the same time as the new law, it didn't happen. That's why it's interesting to hear where you're going with this. The second is whether it is possible for the Council of State to promise the same functionality on this new public electronic mail file as one has had on this system, which has been a testing scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1355	Hopefully, the new scheme will be even better than the old one. One takes with it the experience of the old electronic mail journal, but hopefully there are even more functions and it becomes easier to access – not least because it should be directed towards each individual resident and not just against professional media houses. I hope so, without going into the technical details. The representative Kvassheim is entitled not to be smart when the public promise was on the table. It simply has to do with the delay in public law, we had to have the regulations in place, and then we have to make the technical solutions to respond to what is in law and regulation. We have a big challenge that I know the representative Kvassheim is at least as busy as I am, it's privacy. We have put in a proposal for a search warrant, so that you can't sit and search for individuals for more than 12 months and then make a sort of list of what individuals have to do with public bodies. But it's also to make sure that sensitive information is not published. We are now working hard to get it done, and during 2009 the new postal records will be in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1367	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘Andmyran Wind farm applied for a concession in January 2005 for a 160 MW wind farm. On 20 December 2006, the NVE granted a concession to the wind farm project and writes in particular: that the project will contribute to the achievement of the Great Britain’s wind energy target. The concession was opened and has now been subject to review since 2007. The builder and municipality now need a rapid clarification, including: in relation to Enova’s application deadlines. Is it not time for the Council of State to take a decision on the matter, so that the project can be realised and provide the country with a very strong demand for new renewable energy?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1376	NVE announced Andmyran Windpark AS concession under the Energy Act to build and operate a wind power plant on Andmyran on 20 December 2006. The concession decision was appealed against by several stakeholder organisations and landowners. The NVE did not find grounds for repealing or amending its decision, and the matter was therefore referred to the Ministry of Oil and Energy for review in a letter dated 21 September 2007. In addition, opposition has been raised against the Andøy municipality's control plan for Andmyran Windpark, which is currently being treated in the Ministry of the Environment. An inspection was carried out on Andøy on 18 June 2008. There are many factors that affect the time spent in handling complaints, depending on the degree of conflict and complexity of each project. It is also necessary to take a position on the need for further investigations and opinions on issues raised during the review process. The proceedings in appeal proceedings shall take account of sound and comprehensive assessments and shall be effective at the same time. Andmyran wind turbines have been charged with specific reference to noise for nearby buildings and effects on the natural environment and landscape. The assessment of the complaint is in a final phase, but I cannot fix the exact time when decisions will be taken. Strengthening and improving the efficiency of just concession treatment, including: in NVE, over several years, the duration of treatment per the case has now been reduced. During 2009, the concessional capacity of the NVE will have doubled compared to 2005. In addition, a strengthening of the concession treatment has also been carried out in the ministry. Time and resources are required to carry out sound, comprehensive assessments, while at the same time achieving faster processes is important. I am impatient and want to get wind power plants in operation. For me, wind power is a very important investment to generate new renewable power generation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1385	I thank the Council of State for the answer, but it was not really the NVE's procedural capacity I asked questions about. So here one thing has been going on in the department for years, and that the Council of State actually answers today is that, yes, the Council of State will, but does not get it – the department will. And then it's like it's the Ministry of the Environment that doesn't want to. In this case, and in view of the objectives we have set for renewable energy in Norway, and in particular wind power, the light of today's government will soon have to emerge, and some decisions will have to be taken if we are to develop in this area. So far, there has been a no to Austevoll, and on the Sleneset in Luray we can get in the situation that the initiators are about to give up. Can Andøy Municipality, initiators and investors now expect an answer – preferably by 15 May in the interests of Enova’s deadline – or will there be a new annual desert migration?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1394	I do not know why my message in the answer did not reach the questioner, but I can repeat what I said: «The evaluation of the complaint is in a final phase». I can also repeat what I said further, that ‘I cannot fix exactly when decisions will be taken’. I would also be surprised if the representative Kristiansen really believes that the answer to that application was to be given in Stortinget here and now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1399	The years are allowed to go without a decision being made. All the considerations relating to this case on Andmyra have been taken care of through the NVE concession treatment, where several years ago it was agreed to the concession. The people of the Central Party travel around Norway at a high level and owe it to SV who say no because of one or the other. What initiators and Norway – the need we have to put renewable energy in Norway – now needs more than everything is that a decision is taken. The answer, that this comes around the next corner, has been given now in a few years' time. Where's the next corner? Is it next week, or is it in one or two years?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1404	I don't think I should answer for the third time in the same way, cf. the same question has been raised again. But what is a reality is that a completely necessary process in a department is to make an overall assessment of a case when the case comes to appeal proceedings. So it's important to make those processes go as fast as possible. That's why I've made sure that there are now more resources in my department than it has been in the past, in the same way that there are significantly more resources in the NVE. When the representative Kristiansen here almost resents the need to have a serious procedure in a department because the matter has been dealt with in the NVE, I find it relatively special, and I totally disagree with that presentation. It is important that the considerations raised by a complaint procedure be properly assessed in the ministry. It is also a good investment in getting wind power projects in place in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1414	‘On 1 April 2003, all pupils in this country received their own work environment law. A new chapter of the Training Act came into force that gives all primary and secondary school students a statutory right to a good physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning. It is the schools and municipalities that are responsible for following the law. Is this law properly followed up in the municipalities, and if not, what will the Council of State do to ensure that all the municipalities in this country take the labour environment law of the students seriously?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1421	The question from the representative Lightwear concerns a very comprehensive and important theme, namely the learning environment of the school students. A good learning environment is a prerequisite for students to learn what they need, and for equal opportunities for all, both in the primary and secondary schools. It is therefore legal in the Training Act that everyone has the right to a good physical and psychosocial environment that promotes health, well-being and learning, as has been said. Regulations on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools regulate the same conditions. For a good physical school environment, the quality of school buildings is decisive. Today, we do not have a complete and systematic overview of the physical environment in the 3,806 primary and secondary schools in Norway. But we know more now than a few years ago. Public selections, the National Audit Office and KS have been developed to assess the state of the school buildings. In order to gain up-to-date knowledge, I took the initiative of a country-wide study of all schools, both primary and secondary schools, together with the Minister of Health and Welfare, in 2007–08. The results of this study showed that the physical environment in many of the schools was not in accordance with the physical school environment rules according to the training law. Among other things, the investigation showed that about 50 pst. of the schools reported were not approved under the regulations on environmental health protection in kindergartens and schools. The results show that municipalities and county councils do not comply with the rules on the physical school environment in a good enough way. Immediately after the results were achieved, all municipalities, county councils and county councils were briefed on the results. Municipalities and county councils were reminded of the legal responsibility for the school environment. By referring to the training law, I made it clear in the letter that according to the training law the municipalities and county councils had a duty to implement measures and repairs. In addition, the state was asked to base the results of the investigation on the supervision of the schools. The Minister of Health and Health and I have warned that the fall to come will be a new investigation that will follow up the previous one. The aim of the new study is to see whether the situation is better and whether stronger tools are needed if the school owners have not followed up well. So I also remind you that the State budget for 2009 included an interest compensation scheme for upgrading school buildings. Together with the resources provided by the Government's crisis package, it will be possible to provide a better physical learning environment for students and a better working environment for teachers. It is also worth noting that over the last few years, over 1,000 schools in Norway have been renovating, building new and better with the support of the former government interest compensation scheme. No corresponding studies have been carried out on the psychosocial environment as it has been done on the physical. But also in that area, we know more than before. The results of the Student Inspectors Query showed that a non-minor group of elephants reported being bullied. For a student, bullying, discrimination, violence and racism can have fatal consequences. It should be zero tolerance for bullying. I have therefore provided for the psychosocial school environment to be the theme of national supervision of schools carried out by the county councils in 2010. With that supervision, I would like to remind the municipalities and county councils that they have a duty to carry out systematic and continuous work in this area. The Education Directorate has been informed about this priority and has started work. In those cases where the psychosocial environment of the pupils is violated, the municipalities will be required to correct them. There is an emphasis on guidance in that supervision, and if it turns out that some people think that the psychosocial school environment legislation is unclear, we'll have to go in and look at it more closely. I would also like to remind you of the cooperation between central and national parties we have in the Manifesto against bullying. The manifest is recently signed for a new period from 2009. It's important to get a good psychosocial environment. There are a number of new actions in connection with the Manifesto. We focus on digital bullying. We have presented a teacher training course, where the fight against bullying and the social environment is more central in compulsory subjects. The new principal training will focus on this, and we will double the use of money in the fight against bullying in 2009. Before summer, I will also make sure that the Department has completed a programme for the inclusive learning and growth environment. It will be an overarching planning document for the work on the learning and learning environment in the initial training. Through that document, a pooling and dissemination of knowledge on how schools should work to create a good learning environment. It shall contain concrete measures and shall clearly show the responsibility of the school.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1442	I thank you for your answer. The interest compensation scheme that we have is very good, but the reality is that unfortunately it takes too much time before there are concrete improvements in the working environment for students in a lot of municipalities. We have many very worn-out schools here in the country, facilities that were built according to the demands of the time for materials use and indoor climate. I can only mention words like asbestos and radon in this context. Many students and teachers go in and out of school every year and get headaches every day in Norwegian schools, with the sad consequences of this for learning, performance and well-being. I have the following questions: Does the Council of State think that, in the long run, it might be worthwhile to tear down very worn-out, and that over decades of maintenance has been lacking, rather than to rehabilitate them, so that in the future our children and young people will be able to spend the important school years in new and fresh school buildings, built according to today's demands for indoor climate and with today's environmentally friendly materials?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1451	Assessment of the building mass at the individual school I do not think I should interfere. It's the people who do much better than me. That must be a concrete assessment. But I totally agree that maintenance is often a down-priority task, which tends to lose in the struggle for resources. So we need to prioritize systematic maintenance. And then, of course, it's necessary sometimes to take the decision to build new and to have funds for it. That's exactly why it's carried out a comprehensive survey, so we need to know the image. It showed that many schools don't have the star they should have. Then I have to make it clear that it is the individual municipality and county municipality that have an obligation to follow it up, ensure systematic maintenance and prioritisation of new buildings. As an addition to that, we've had an interest compensation scheme over many years, which has contributed to the fact that well over 1,000 of the 3,800 schools have been cleaning up or building new ones. We have a new system today, which is the same size, and which would therefore give an extensive additional lift from the state in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1462	I also thank you for this answer, and have a final question. As I said, the pupils' work environment law also includes the psychosocial environment at schools. Recently, VG reported that seven out of ten principals in this country have registered bullying at their school. There has been a marked increase since 2005. Everything suggests that more and more students than in a long time are being bullied in schools. The bullying has become more extensive. A principal, Bjørn Mikalsen, at Namso high school, warns against the consequences of the growing bullying in school. He says that the hidden bullying, like in the form of mobile bullying or digital bullying, is at least as serious as the physical bullying. Another principal confirms that the new media have really become new bullying arenas. What will the Council of State do to really put bullying on the agenda, so as to prevent the massive and increasing bullying going on in our schools today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1471	Bullying is an extremely serious problem. It's unfortunately up to 5 pst. The students at the school say that they can be bullied and harassed every day. It is clear that experiencing it can destroy any basis for learning and be very harmful. That's why it has to be at the top of the list of things the schools work with. Over time, there are enough developments to make some changes, both up and down. It hasn't been a long, one-sided tendency to rise, but last year we saw a clear trend towards a rise in bullying. Therefore, the Government took the initiative of a new Manifesto against bullying, together with all major partners in the school. As I said, it contains increased focus on digital bullying, because it's probably true that it's a quite different situation from 2003, when the king and Bondevik put a lot of emphasis on it. We need to take that more seriously. In addition, there is more money, more direct action, better teacher training against bullying. I agree with the representative that there is a very important area in which we need to focus.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1480	This question, from the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve to the Minister for Fisheries and Coastal Affairs, is answered by the Minister for Food and Trade who directs him.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1483	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: ‘The Maritime Directorate has proposed the introduction of the HSC Code as a Norwegian regulation on rules on safety and standards for passenger ships, in line with the EU Directive of 1998. The introduction leads to unreasonable demands for upgrading existing ships, which will have dramatic consequences for the entire coast. The vast majority of small ambulance boats, along with speedboats currently used for travel life purposes, will disappear. What will the Council of State do to stop the introduction of the HSC code as a Norwegian rule?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1492	EU Directive 98/18 is in place to enhance maritime safety for passenger ships engaged on domestic voyages and also applies to high-speed passenger ships. The Directive was implemented in Norwegian law in 2000, but the Directorate-General for Maritime Affairs is of the opinion that the existing national legislation needs to be better harmonised with this EU Directive, which refers to the Speedy Boat Code – the HSC Code – adopted by the IMO. The Maritime Directorate has therefore assessed, in close cooperation with industry, a change of legislation and its possible consequences. I am concerned that we should discharge our EEA obligations, but also that we need to exploit the scope of action we have in implementing such obligations. This is why the Ministry, together with the Directorate for Maritime Affairs and the Industry, will look at possible solutions to minimise the impact on industry. Within the framework of the Directive, I want great flexibility to be demonstrated in order to find the best possible solution. Therefore, if the Maritime Directorate promotes a regulatory change, the views of industry in the consultation will of course be carefully assessed before a decision is taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1499	I thank the Council of State for the answer. A former district court judge with sound experience in maritime law and safety at sea and with good knowledge of coastal infrastructure – not only in Norway but in the EU countries and the rest of the world – has contacted me and told me that there is no such thing as a coastline with opportunities to provide housing and tourism elsewhere in the world as the one we have in Norway. He has sailed around a lot, including in EU countries, and he was quite so clear that the EU had no knowledge of what the coast means for Norwegian settlement and travel. I have also been informed that the EU should have made derogations from the HSC Directive in the case of Greece and the Greek islands. My next question to the Council of State is: Does the Council of State know that such an exception has been made? And does the Council see the possibility that similar exemptions can also be made for the Norwegian coast?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1506	Let me first say that I fully agree with Mr Røbekk Nørve's statement about how wonderful our country is, not least along the coast. As Minister for Travel Life, I am very concerned that we can show that country to even more people than we do today. What I am now concerned about is getting a proper process around this issue, and I also feel that it is the representative's business, and that a thing to do is to find a solution that makes the part of the industry that we are talking about here – that is, the smaller boats related to travel life and other things – not as affected as it might initially have been. That's why I don't want to say today what can be the solution, but I can assure the representative that, together with the Maritime Directorate and not least with the industry, we will have a process in the future that will allow us, within the regulatory framework we have – because we have to deal with it – to find solutions that are as harmful as possible, in order to use that expression, for that part of the industry that we are talking about here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1513	I thank you again for the answer, but I note that I did not receive a reply as to whether the Council of State is aware of the derogation that Greece has received. It is possible to answer this question now. We know that in the strictest sense, the measure could lead to a loss of 450 million. kr in equity of the companies. ==References== 80 shipping companies will be at risk of closure and 300 district work sites will be jeopardized. In the case of ambulance boats, affected municipalities and health businesses will have increased costs or, where appropriate, reduced emergency services for patients. At the same time, we are at risk that many small communities will lose important infrastructure provision. I trust that the Council of State will do its utmost to ensure that Norway does not introduce the HSC code, so that it destroys the settlement and infrastructure along the coast. And I'm glad the Council of State says this is good dialogue with the stakeholders. But I should have liked an answer to the second question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1524	Firstly, neither of us has any desire to destroy either the settlement or the opportunity to travel in our country — rather the opposite. We're busy showing the country and that people can live around the country, also along the coast. Just so it's clear! The famous code that we're talking about here has come because we're going to improve maritime safety, and we're all concerned about that. But we have to do that, as I see it, within the framework and the space of action we have, and demonstrate the flexibility that is necessary. I do not know specifically the exception to which the representative here refers. But we're going to go through all of that in order to see how this can be adapted to boats of the size that we're talking about here, so that they are affected in the least possible way in the negative sense. At the same time, we're going to maritime safety, and I'm sure we're all concerned about that. But I want now a process, and that's where the industry is going to get the most involved. We need to have a process where we can do what we can to find the best solution possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-06.ana.ud2058e1533	The question mark has thus ended. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
