ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e47	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 355]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e63	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e72	There has been no heated debate on this bill, which deals with the prohibition of the visible presentation of tobacco products and smoking equipment. We think it has a pretty simple explanation – just that time has worked for it. The Smoking Act is a fact. It has now worked for several years, and the few will have the smoke back in the cafes, restaurants or meeting rooms, even if you were against the law. For most, the amendments to the Tobacco Injury Act will be a natural follow-up and a continuation to prevent health damage to tobacco. Some of the background to the proposal is the Government’s national tobacco prevention strategy 2006–2010. There is the goal of halving the number of young people smoking within five years, and the increase in snuff use is halting. These intentions must be difficult to resist. That's not the majority either. The majority of the Committee is of the opinion that we should use all means to prevent people from becoming ill with tobacco. With this amendment, the majority believe that we also follow the international trends, where the search light is on tobacco and health. This legislative amendment does not prevent adults from buying tobacco. The number of outlets and the range of tobacco products remain unchanged. It is quite common now that at least in grocery stores you buy tobacco cards and pick up your tobacco from the vending machine. This is a simple way that is accepted by most people. This type of machine is also not affected by the amendment of the law. Hearing replies show broad disintegration in the prevention of health damage to tobacco products. On the other hand, the hearing bodies have been divided as regards the realities of the proposal, namely to prohibit the visible presentation of tobacco products and equipment. It is easy to understand that those who oppose the legislative proposal are essentially hearing bodies from the tobacco and commercial industries. However, the majority consider that it is not appropriate to take account of these considerations rather than preventing damage and preventing smoking start-ups and helping those who have quit smoking. We believe, like the Department, that the visible representation of tobacco constitutes a not insignificant purchasing influence. I guess that's the kind of tobacco we're tempted to buy with a lot of other things. The majority support the Ministry's assessment that the amendment does not have to impose high costs on outlets. There is disagreement in the Committee on this matter. The disagreement may be expressed by the representatives of the various parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e89	First of all, I would like to stress that everyone involved in the debate today has a desire to limit the adverse effects of tobacco from a public health perspective. However, when there is a desire to limit the adverse effects of tobacco and smoking, it should be assumed that it can be demonstrated that the changes proposed act as measures to reduce the use of tobacco. This is not the case in this case. When you go to such a far-reaching step as to prohibit or to make invisible goods legally negotiable to people over 18 years of age – as tobacco products are – there should be, and should, in my view, there be evidence that making the goods invisible actually has a public health effect, that it actually brings a benefit through less smoking. Experience from other countries that have implemented a ban on the visible presentation of tobacco products, such as in Iceland or parts of Canada, cannot show any significant decrease in the sales of tobacco products, despite the fact that tobacco products have been ‘not visible’ for many years. On the contrary, it is that you are at the same level as you were before you imposed such an order. It is therefore easy to see that it is the global trends that have the greatest influence on smoking habits in the world, and not this type of ban that is proposed here. It is surprising, on the one hand, that in Norway, with today’s government, we have a debate about distributing free heroin to drug addicts, while on the other hand we want to ban the visible presentation of tobacco products in shops. It is also clear that there is an ongoing debate linked to the ban on the sale of smoke in petrol stations and kiosks, and it becomes a paradox that at this stage conversions are required at a cost of around NOK 30000 per person. point of sale, so as to subsequently prohibit their ability to sell these goods. That's going to be a double cost. On the other hand, experience from those countries which have introduced a ban shows that the sale of tobacco products is decreasing among the small players and is increasing among the large ones. We get a monopolistic of sales. This does not speak well for the local store or for the nearby kitchen to survive. It is surprising that in this case the competitive consequences have not been assessed, in addition to the fact that the case has been at an EEA hearing. The competition between the different products and between the different shops has therefore not been assessed. I will again warn strongly against the negative consequences this gets for stores in the districts. On the other hand, the state should define and control specialist shops in terms of their range of goods. The State shall verify that specialised tobacco goods shops are not to have a range of products which are to attract customers other than those who are to buy tobacco products. Where's the tobacco police frontier going? Is that so that ice is permitted and prohibited by Coca-Cola? It is also clear that equality between tobacco and snuff is not rooted in research into health damage to tobacco products. Snus is also not a nuisance for others, but the product must nevertheless be hidden away. The Progress Party wishes to maintain today's smoking law with one exception. Smokers already feel stigmatized today. Today's proposal will not improve the situation. But if you give an opening so that it can be smoked in unserved smoking rooms where there is no discomfort to anyone other than those who voluntarily uses such rooms, and where there is no smoking out to neighboring rooms, in our part of the world with many minus degrees and poor weather, it will be a good offer to those who already depend on nicotine or tobacco products. For they exist, and they exist in large groups, and we as society also need to make sure that they can have acceptable solutions that counteract the stigmatisation of a large group of people. I take up the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e108	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e111	On the right, we support the intentions of the proposal to reduce health damage related to tobacco use. There is no doubt that this represents a significant health risk and is a significant cause of disease and early death. This was also the reason why the Co-operation Administration proposed a ban on smoking in service facilities, which was endorsed by the Storting. We record that this has been among the most effective measures to reduce health damage related to smoking, and that the ban has greatly affected the population. It is also a pleasure to record that fewer than before are starting to smoke. However, when we are going to introduce regulations and restrictions, it must be clear that these produce an effect that compensates for the disadvantages of such regulation. Otherwise, health measures may appear more like symbolism policies and moralisation, which hardly reinforces policy uptake. We cannot see from the Right that there is sufficient evidence that the ban on the visible presentation of tobacco products will be effective in reducing smoking. We have also noticed that countries like New Zealand are not in favour of this measure, precisely referring to the lack of evidence of its effectiveness. A total ban on advertising of tobacco products has already been introduced to ensure that harmful tobacco products are not placed on the market. At the same time, a prohibition of visible presentation would involve costs and costs for the trading industry. It does not appear reasonable to impose such disadvantages on business as long as it is unclear whether this brings health benefits. In view of this, the members of the Right will vote against the proposals for amendments to Section 5 of the Tobacco Injury Act which prohibit the visible presentation of tobacco and smoking equipment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e122	It is not necessary to extend this debate so much, because the parties of government stand together here. I think it is interesting with the considerations of the Progress Party and Jan-Henrik Fredriksen. So here you support the law as it has been, but not as it should be, when you treated the law last, you were completely against it. The progress has been notorious against the smoking law. When one sees that one has previously had a law back to 1973 on tobacco damage protection, when it was banned with advertising as such, there have been many steps on the way to where we have come today, and for every step the Progress Party has gone against, so in retrospect to rely on what was, but not on what is coming. Fredriksen calls for results before he will be able to support this proposal, just as the Progress Party says that climate change has not been proven, and therefore cannot defend action against it until it is finally proven. It is, of course, a position that will lead to the disaster of climate change, but which also has major ring-fences in this area for public health in general, because the signs are so clear that access to advertising in different countries affects sales of products. Similarly, when it acts as an advertisement with exhibitions in shops, it also promotes the sale of products. There has been a very happy development over several years that smoking in the population has declined. There has been a significant decline, not least among young people. But that has not happened because, but despite the attitude of the Progress Party towards what scientists have said, and the advice they have given us politicians to improve public health and reduce smoking in the population.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e133	Knowing the serious adverse effects of tobacco, it is necessary to look at measures that can reduce consumption. According to the World Health Organisation, smoking is second place on the world’s most common causes of death. The Christian People's Party therefore welcomes the Government's proposal to prohibit the visible presentation of tobacco products. It is equally disappointing to see the receipt of the proposal received in the other opposition parties. The proposal for the Progress Party to open up the use of unattended smoking rooms is even a step backwards in tobacco prevention work. Here it's not just about braking, it's about putting in reverses. There was a majority in the 2009 state budget’s position to introduce health warnings on smoking packages using images, as is done in a number of countries around the world, including Spain and Portugal. in Canada. Studies show that the more eye-catching health marking of smoking packages is, the more effective it is affecting the behaviour of smokers, such as considering stopping smoking, considering the health risks of smoking and simply not taking a smoke. I hope and expect the Minister of Health to be fully in the process of following up this majority comment from the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e144	The left, of course, agrees that smoking is very harmful and that the health risks of smoking are well known. Smoking is an important single factor that can be prevented, with the greatest impact on the individual’s health status. There are many thousands of deaths from smoking-related diseases in Norway, and there are some deaths from passive smoking. Of course, this is serious. I read on page 4 of the settings that include: the government party believes that it is important ‘to use all possible means in the fight against more people becoming ill and dying as a result of smoking’. So now the smoke packages are going under the disk. When we don't stare at this, it's because we in the Left, as others have said before me today, don't think it has any effect. We also thought that there would be a limit one place. I want to grasp this wording again from among others. the government party, the plurality, to use ‘all possible means’. We are all some of the people that smoking is harmful, and that smoking should be limited from a public health perspective, but ‘all possible means’ – what does that mean? What kind of other measures does the Government consider everyone to live as long as possible and die as healthy as possible? We can start by banning sugar and hiding alcohol under the counter, lowering the speed limit to 60 km per hour and banning all risk sports, mountain climbing. Then we can forbid children to play and climb for three. Life is a risk, and we can't ban everything that's harmful to health, everything we're afraid of, or take away the risk of any potential danger that exists in people's lives. I think the dream of the perfect greeting also creates problems. Applying a pressure of expectation can in itself be harmful and probably cause many mental problems. I saw it at the head of this context, of course, because we in the Left have begun to get enough of the guardian state, which is going to regulate all aspects of people's lives and take responsibility for how they will live. We know that smoke is harmful. We want to facilitate a lot of different measures to improve people's health, but we don't like the state to bring people up to the perfect life. I mean, it's a mockery relative to the rest of the world, where people don't have any chance of living in such a cotton wrapped reality that we surround ourselves with. How healthy are we going to be in Norway compared to the rest of the world? We have problems in Norway, too. We have addicts who get too bad treatment. We have a lot of sick elderly people who should have a sick place, but don't get it. This is where we should step up our efforts and not discuss where the smoke packages are going to be placed in stores. After the Left's view, we're now getting a regime when it comes to people's health, where the state becomes more and more a model in our lives, where the goal is what's a good life or the perfect health. If we let the state and the health care community become a model for how life should live, I believe we achieve the opposite, that people become passive and unable to take responsibility for their own lives. A point: Maybe they're so worried about the pressure that they refuse to quit smoking. So if there is anyone in doubt, the Left, along with the Right and the Advance Party, opposes the proposal for Section 5 of the new bill.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e172	The aim of the proposal to introduce a ban on the visible presentation of tobacco products is to reduce the proportion of smokers and swindlers in the general population, and among children and young people in particular. At present, all marketing of tobacco products is prohibited, with the exception of the visible presentation of the product. The proposed ban will fill this last hole in the tobacco advertising ban. Tobacco is sold mainly in grocery stores, kiosks and service stations, and the goods are usually displayed clearly at the boxes. The statement may serve as an invitation to buy and use tobacco. The Government therefore considers that a ban on the visible presentation of tobacco products is an appropriate instrument to reduce tobacco consumption. The ban is expected to have a positive impact on the impulse purchase and re-recruitment of tobacco users. A prohibition of visible presentation could also help prevent relapses among former tobacco users. As far as possible, the government has also taken account of the outlets. For points of sale, the proposal would require them to keep the goods in question so that they are not visible to customers. However, the proposal does not regulate in detail how this should be done. Each point of sale is free to choose appropriate solutions, such as: space under disk, in enclosed lockers, drawers, containers, etc. In addition, information on the range of goods and on-site prices may be provided. Specialised tobacco shops are proposed to be exempted from the ban because the sale of tobacco products is at the heart of such activities. Furthermore, the customer group is different from other outlets. It is usually about adult customers looking for the business just to buy tobacco products or to get information about such goods. The call for purchases contained in the visible presentation of tobacco products will be of minor importance. So of course you can ask yourself, is this so important now? Is the fight against tobacco something to be so preoccupied with that you keep using the law to bring down the consumption? Isn't it that way that we have to stop being so concerned about this? To that it is said that in recent years the proportion has been, for example, by swindlers, particularly among young men, and although the proportion of smokers in Norway is falling, there are still more than one million people smoking daily or occasionally. This results in 6,700 smoke-related deaths per year. years. In the 40–70 age group, smoking is the reason for 26 pst. of the deaths among women and 40 pst. of the deaths among men. Smoking is also a lifestyle factor with clear social inequalities. I am particularly concerned about doing something about the social health differences that this entails, and it is therefore important to strengthen prevention efforts in the tobacco sector. On this basis, the Government has proposed a ban on the visible presentation of tobacco products.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e185	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e189	I have two comments for the Council of State. One is: both in Iceland and in Saskatchewan, Canada, there has been a ban on the manufacture of tobacco products in shops for years. All studies from these two countries indicate that the developments associated with the sale do not follow the ban imposed. On the contrary, it follows the global trend in the number of people smoking, i.e. that they're in line with us. That's why you claim you can't prove this professionally. The other one concerns New Zealand, where we have adopted the opposite of what we come up with here today. The professional evidence has been analysed and found that prohibiting the presentation of goods will not significantly reduce the sale of tobacco products. What comments does the Council of State have on this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e198	I think the representative is quite right that it will always be difficult to assess the exact impact of different measures, because it will always be the sum of all the measures that say something. When we introduce this ban, we will continue to have the effect of the smoking ban we received, for example. in restaurants, a few years ago. So what works in relation to what, I think it'll be hard to be completely concrete on. But I am absolutely convinced that the sum of all measures – including this – contributes in the right direction. Then it is not certain that this contributes very much, but if it contributes to something – it is clear that the health problems associated with smoking are great – I say yes thank you. If it helps something, yes, thank you, let's try it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e203	I tried to make a small point of some of the wordings in the setting, saying that one would use "all possible means" in the fight against diseases. I then ask the question, What is ‘all possible means’? Now I don't know if the Council of State can be held responsible for what is in the configuration in and separately, but when I hear the outline 'all possible means', I'm almost turned to the ground. What does that mean? If we are to be completely criminalised in such ways, or ‘any means’ can be defended in this fight – to put it that way. What does the Council of State think about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e208	For me, Stortinget is always right. But let me say it so that I think I would have initially used other wordings in a document that I was responsible for. Because it's clear that we're not going to spend all the money on tobacco. It's e.g. the non-current policy of prohibiting tobacco as a legal product for sale. So there's a confirmation that it's not relevant to use all the funds. But we're going to use the funds that we think are balanced against the major health challenges that, after all, are related to tobacco, and I think that among the instruments that are acceptable, there is a total ban on advertising. I think that is very acceptable, and then it is clear that part of it is exhibition of sales goods. So I think this is within the means that it is possible to use, but there are also funds that are not easy to use.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e213	No more words have been asked for a line. Those who are given the following word have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e218	What this debate is really about is the path to smoke-free society. There's no doubt that the majority here wants to go there at some point. The fight against tobacco and the damage caused by tobacco is an honest enough debate. But the question is how to get there. Is it through this kind of scheme? Or is it through active use of information campaigns aimed at, among others. against children and young people? In order to make tobacco less available with this proposal – it should continue to be legal to sell in the shops that are currently selling tobacco – the question is: Why not transfer tobacco sales to the type of business that does not have so much coverage around the country, for example. pharmacies or possibly wine monopolies? It might have given a more desirable effect than what you get from this proposal – not that I should give the majority some good ideas here! Then you have the industrial policy aspect. The representative, Mr Olsen, the rapporteur, comes from a state with many small businesses, for example. in the course of trade in goods. This is a deliberate imposition that will increase the cost of these. If it goes as the majority wants, it becomes less revenue for these businesses. There are establishments that are currently struggling to maintain services in many rural communities, precisely because of low earnings. This is quite different from the predictable and active industrial policy that we hear about when representatives and state councils of the Workers' Party travel around the country and the beach and preach what the Labour Party's policy stands for. But what we see in reality is an increasing number of regulations, restraints, impositions, tax increases, etc. One should be so honest as to say that this is no kind of predictable industrial policy. I feel that we, who are set to take care of business interests, should be able to note that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e227	The reason why I asked for the word was Ballo's contribution to this matter. There were some spectators in the gallery, and then he started talking about the climate policy of the Progress Party and the belief in climate change when we discuss whether to have a ban on the presentation of tobacco products in the shops. I think it will be a ghastly form of derailment of the debate. We all know about the adverse effects of tobacco, tobacco products and smoking. But the question is, are we able to regulate ourselves away from the fact that parts of the population are smoking today and will smoke in the future? I believe global trends are what will ultimately be decisive for how many smoke in Norway. Then you make a choice. What kind of societies do you want? Would you like to have a head office to hide legal goods that are for sale to a population over the age of 18? Is that what we want? Is it the right way to go? We're going to ban fireworks. We're going to shut down the tipping points earlier. And now we're going to ban having visible tobacco products in a store that should be able to sell them anyway. The representative, Mr. Davøy, says that our proposal to allow unserved smoking rooms is a step backwards. We have a desire to be inclusive of other people, a desire to care for people who are in a situation where they are actually not to the detriment of others other than themselves. We live in a country where we have large parts of the year with many minus degrees. You think it's a good treatment of almost 25 pst. by the population to shut them out of all the houses and say, since you're so stupid that you smoke, can you get to stand out at 25 degrees? If you think it's health policy, I think you're wrong. In fact, many people have a dependency on smoke and nicotine. If you're going to take them seriously, you also have to include them in a different way than what you do today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e236	The last thing Jan-Henrik Fredriksen said, I fully agree with him. Of course, you have to treat smokers with respect. It would be very unfortunate to have a social development that tries to stigmatise individuals because of smoking. What must be taken seriously, on the other hand, is the adverse effects of smoking, not only for those who smoke, but also for others. My point to Jan-Henrik Fredriksen is that I have over all years heard the arguments of the Progress Party against imposing restrictions related to smoking. That was the ban on advertising, which was adopted in 1973. Later, at the end of the 1980s, the establishment of own smoking rooms and smoke-free zones in restaurants, which were also opposed by the Advance Party. The airlines themselves took the initiative that the aircraft should be smoke-free. It's amazing to think back to sitting in a cabin with children who could be asthmatics, and then they smoked over a low shoe. I hope that the Advance Party does not want to return to that situation. But I know the arguments again -- the same arguments that are used today, that it's not proven to have any effect. They have been used by the Progress Party in any crossroads. It's not going to be a lot of imagination, Fredriksen, to understand the parallel to the climate debate, where the Progress Party argues in exactly the same way. I'm not saying this to open up a climate debate here today, but I'm just saying that if you're going to create a development in the world based on the philosophy that the Progress Party has, that means that the worst adverse effects must be so obvious that you no longer need researchers to see them, until you get all the action going. This means that while approx. 6,500 die because of the adverse effects of smoking today, the number, with the approach of the Advance Party to this, would be extremely much larger. Because it has not been as the Progress Party said, namely that the measures have not been effective. They have had a significant effect. The progress party was wrong – here, as they do when it comes to climate policy – wrong, wrong, wrong! That is the problem for the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e243	The President will remind you that all speeches must be made through the President. The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e248	I do not know if the representative of Ballo has come to know that we actually support the smoking law as it is today, until this decision. So to continue with a argument about what we should have done in 1973 or 1977 or 1987 for that matter is not very relevant in the matter. The only thing we want to change is to give permission to an unauthorized smoking room. If the representative of Ballo believes this is to be very conservative or if you don't join the class, he'll be allowed to do it. But as I said, this is also about a choice: how much headway are we going to have? And there I have to say that the SV and the Progress Party are very far apart. We actually want adults to be able to make their own decisions for their own lives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e253	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 355]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e269	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be three replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e278	It is an overall committee that supports the proposals of the Ministry of Health and Welfare on changes to the abortion law. The Committee supports the proposal that rejection of the application for termination of pregnancy under Section 7 of the Abortion Act – i.e. where the intervention takes place after the end of the 12th week of pregnancy – shall be dealt with by a central appeal body. It will replace the five regional topics we have today. The Committee identifies in its opinion the 2004 Health Authority’s Summary Report on the Supervision of Children’s Children’s Children’s Rights. The conclusion was that neither the primary subjects nor the regional complainants were found to be different from the existing legislation. However, there was evidence of discrimination between those who could weaken the legal certainty of the applicant. It is essential for the Committee to ensure the legal certainty of women in the best possible way in these demanding cases and to ensure equal treatment of the demand for abortion. The Health Inspectorate’s report suggests that there is a basis for action and changes in current legislation. The Committee is pleased that the Ministry is proposing amendments and concludes that a central appeal subject will be better suited to meet the requirement of non-discrimination and security. This will, in the Committee's view, better safeguard the human dignity of women who are in an extremely difficult situation in life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e289	The progress party is going to support the matter as it exists, but I still need to say a few words. What the Progress Party thinks is important is to get a central mention, so that everyone gets equal treatment. We also see that there is a need to expand the number of members in the denominator, as mentioned in the case. We see that the topic is now being proposed expanded with a psychologist and a representative with a social background. We believe it is important that the basis for getting a Senabor should be the same as it has been in the past. We want to make it clear that it is important that this change that is now being made should not lead to an increase in the total number of Sennabans. What's important is there's going to be an equal treatment, so it's not very difficult to get it granted to some places and more easily elsewhere. So it has to be an equal assessment, and we don't think that should lead to more senanes, but to more fair treatment. But as I said, we are dealing with the matter as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e296	The proposal for amendments to the law on abortion to centralise the review procedure in order to ensure greater equal treatment of applications and better legal certainty is supported by the Christian People's Party. However, I would like to make it clear that the right to life is the most fundamental of all human rights, and that the Christian People's Party in its time opposed the current abortion law and still believes that the law does not uphold the unborn child's right to life. The establishment of a single name must not lead to the liberalisation of practices relating to the granting of abortion. This Christian People's Party has pointed out in a separate remark in the setting. I think we all agree that choosing abortion is a very difficult choice for every woman and man. Good information is therefore important prior to such a decision. A year ago, quite exactly, Stortinget dealt with a representative proposal from the Christian People's Party on, among other things. improved access to information, more guidance and financial support schemes for disadvantaged pregnant women. Unfortunately, the government parties did not support the proposals of the Christian People's Party, nor did the proposal for better advice and information, despite agreement on the importance of this. Recent research has shown, in particular, that many women have major mental problems after an abortion. This is new knowledge, which, in my view, requires new measures. State Council Sylvia Brustad showed at the time that she was going to meet with the Medical Association and the Nursing Association on how we can strengthen the offer of women who have psychological reactions after an abortion. In addition, she referred to the current action plan. On top of that, I'm not sure if the Government has taken new action after the meeting, which I expect has been held, but I guess on another occasion the Council of State may be able to update this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e307	The last thing the representative Davøy picked up, I have to ask to check and come back to. I will just add a few comments to the matter from my side. So we are proposing changes to the abortion law. The amendments imply that an appeal against an application for abortion lodged after the end of the 12th week of pregnancy shall be dealt with by one central denominator instead of five regional denominators, such as today. I am pleased that the Health and Welfare Committee has recommended the changes in its position. The Government considers that the proposal is appropriate to ensure better non-discrimination between those seeking abortion, thereby increasing the legal certainty of women. The proposal takes into account the fact that one central complainant will carry out the same task as regional complainants do today. In order to achieve the broad competence recommended by the Hearing Officers, it is proposed that the number of members of the Board of Appeal be extended from three to five. It is proposed that there should be at least two doctors and one lawyer among the members of the denominator and that the last two members should have psychological and social competence. The members of the Committee are proposed to be appointed by the King for four years at a time. I stress that the proposal does not involve any change in the assessment basis for applications for termination of pregnancy. The conditions for granting an interruption in pregnancy after the 12th week are unchanged.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e320	No more people have signed up on the list of speakers, and the debate in case No. 3 is over. [[Food, see page 359]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e328	The odelsting shall then vote in case No. 1 to 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e400	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e409	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e416	During the debate, a proposal was put forward by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government requests the amendment of Section 6 of the Tobacco Injury Act to be proposed by the Government so that the law allows the use of unserved smoking rooms that are not to the detriment of persons other than those who voluntarily use such spaces.’ The proposal is in line with the fourth paragraph of Section 30 of the Rules of Procedure to send the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e796	The party of progress, the Right and the Left have warned that they will vote against Section 5. The party of progress has announced that they will vote against the rest of I and II.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e814	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all. The President assumed that the Progress Party would also vote against this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e827	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e892	It's going to go above the title of the law and promise at all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e902	The Law Decision will be sent to the Lamentation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-03-16-lower.ana.ud671e914	There is no record available. Does anyone ask for the word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting has been cancelled.
