ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e26	The representatives Vegar Solhjell and Dagfinn Højbrätten, who have been on leave, have again taken the seat. The called alternate of the Vestfold County, Morten Stordalen, has taken the seat. The representative of Peter Skovholt Gitmark shall apply for a care permit from 25 November to 8 December. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representative, Janne Fardal Kristoffersen, is invited to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e57	Janne Fardal Kristoffersen is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e65	The representative, Line Henriette Hemdal, will put forward two proposals for representatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e68	On behalf of Knut Arild Hareide, Øyvind Håbreek, Rigmor Andersen Eide and I signed, I promote the proposal for a representative on the development of an action plan for CO2 capture and storage from large point emissions in industry. I also promote a representative proposal on behalf of Dagrun Eriksen, Geir J. Bekkevold, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and signed that the State will ensure that Statoil withdraws from oil sand activities in Canada.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e78	The representative, André Oktay Dahl, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e81	On behalf of the representatives of Anders B. Werp, Linda C. Hofstad Helleland, Elisabeth Aspaker and myself, I have the pleasure of proposing immediate legislative changes to ensure an increased level of penalties in violent, criminal and violent cases.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e86	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner. From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 20 November 2009: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 20 November 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 11.00 is determined: Secretary of State Kjersti Markusson is dismissed from office as Secretary of State for Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg with resignation on 1 January 2010. State Secretary Håkon Arald Gulbrandsen is hereby dismissed from office as Secretary of State for Development of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Erik Solheim. Tor Brostigen is appointed State Secretary for Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg with accession from 1 January 2010. Pál Julius Skogholt is appointed State Secretary for the State Council Trond Giske. Ingrid Fikaa is appointed State Secretary of State Erik Solheim for Development Affairs of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.’ The President proposes that the referenced letter be annexed to the minutes – and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e125	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Trond Gian State Council Rigmor Aasrud State Council Audun Lysbakken The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. We start with the first main questions, from the representative Robert Eriksson.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e144	I am delighted to ask the Minister of Labour a question. Recently, we have seen that the government has made new proposals to reduce sick leave. Among other things, they have pressed to their breasts the so-called Swedish model where they want to carry a greater share of the costs to employers. We know that this proposal has not worked very well in Sweden. We also know that there have been strong reactions to this proposal from the trade union movement, where LO leader Flöthhen has been so clear that he has said he is warning against the scheme. John Davidsen of the Trade Union stated two days ago that he would go to war against the system. In addition, on Monday I had the pleasure of participating in a debate with the LO leader on NRK Radio in Trondheim, where he said that the proposal that is now on the government table is actually much worse than introducing Karen's days. It also says a little when we know what the LO position is on the latter. We also know that there are 92 000 disabled people who are currently outside the labour market who want to enter the labour market. We know that with such a proposal, where a greater proportion of the costs are passed on to the employer, it will be more difficult for people with disabilities and chronically ill people to enter the labour market. We'll have a tighter work life. We will achieve an effect where we go from an inclusive working life to an exclusive working life, and we will have a system where you get fewer in work and more in social security. My question to the Council of State will then be: Why does the Government want to take action that will lead to a worse working life, a more exclusive working life and more people coming to social security?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e157	I perceive that most people in Norway are concerned that we should reduce our sick leave. A short time ago, the government went to Stortinget with a proposal to extra allocate SEK 3.2 billion this year, because sick leave is increasing. At the same time, we are in a situation where, together with the social partners, we are going to renegotiate the so-called IA agreement. A selection led by the Ministry of Labour has reviewed the IA Agreement and has proposed new measures related to sick leave, which can be implemented. However, in view of the serious situation we see, where sick leave in 2009 seems to increase by up to 10 pst., the Government believes it is important that we look at other measures as well. We have discussed this with the parties, and we agree that we should look for new measures. It is not a proposal that has been promoted in that debate, but it has, among other things, been. have been referred to measures implemented in Sweden which have had a positive impact on sick leave. My opinion is that we should dry up to look at the Swedish proposals. This does not mean that we should introduce them – I think many of them will not be suitable in Norway – but we need to dry up in the situation we are in, also to be able to see what our neighboring country has got. Then, together with the social partners, we have also agreed that we should look at other ways of allocating the costs of sick leave to employers. We have assured employers that it will be within the limits of income neutrality, so that employers do not get increased costs, but that we can see if there are other ways of setting up the scheme. Then I would like to stress that the proposals we are going to look for will be within a system in which employees' rights in the health pay scheme will of course be maintained, as set out in the Soria Moria Declaration.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e166	In the election campaign we experienced that the Workers' Party and the LO almost went hand in hand and warned against the Progress Party, where they ran a campaign that a voice to Jensen would be a voice for a weakened sick pay scheme. We've seen that the government of Stoltenberg I, just one year after a election, was on the track and wanted to change the health pay system, and now we see that the same government, right after a election, is trying to change the health pay system again. Does that mean that the Workers' Party has the following guarantee: We do as LO says right before a choice, and our guarantee is that we can change the health pay scheme as soon as the election is over and we have got their members to vote for us. So do I also want to challenge the Council of State to answer my main question more clearly: does the Council of State not see the danger of introducing the proposal outlined by the Prime Minister, that this will lead to those who are out of the labour market today – chronically ill and disabled – being even further away from the labour market, and that then only expenditure will be shifted to increased disability?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e173	Two things are important to clarify: the government has not proposed to change the health pay scheme. We want to look at measures that can reduce sick leave. I hope everyone in this room and elsewhere will be interested in that. Then I see that it is important that we have protective arrangements the same way today, which ensures that those who have chronic diseases and who may otherwise fall out of the labour market must also be taken into account when designing new measures in the IA agreement. This will happen in cooperation with the parties, of course, and of course we will also have close dialogue with the organisations of disabled people on how to design such measures. However, we have already put in place protective mechanisms today, and it will be possible to introduce similar arrangements in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e178	Four follow-up questions will be raised – first Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e181	I would like to ask my supplementary question to the Minister of Industry. My question is as follows: we just heard the Council of State Aasrud say that it is not relevant to change the economic aspect of employees. Once we have had the debate that has recently taken place, there is reason to believe that we intend to transfer greater burdens on business. And when we look in particular at the labour force survey from the second to the third quarter, it shows a decline in employment, problems related to enterprises, investment packages, etc., and it may therefore be that we further weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises by imposing greater costs on employers related to sick leave. Does the Minister of Industry agree that the transfer of greater responsibilities to employers could endanger additional jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e190	No, I almost have the opposite starting point, that there are a few things that are more important to business, to businesses, than that we together manage to get sick leave down. Businesses are already spending a lot of time on sick leave, and in addition to purely financial payments, it is often problematic for enterprises, especially small enterprises, to increase sick leave because important skills are being lost from work. My impression of employers and their organisations is that they are very interested in working together to bring this down, to create an inclusive working life, also to look at financial arrangements in the area of employer responsibility, which means that they can be rewarded for reducing sick leave. In fact, if you could make sure that employers get a greater share of the benefit by reducing sick leave, we have put in place an economically motivating system for them to contribute even more. I think that will be in everyone's interest.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e195	Torbjørn Røe Isaksen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e199	My follow-up question goes to councillor Aasrud. There is now a process going to end up in a new IA agreement. The Prime Minister has said that he is willing to consider all the proposals. I have also realized that the Council of State has been before. But now the Council of State in the debate today says that some of the measures pointed out by the Prime Minister are not appropriate in Norway. My question to the Council of State is: What measures has the Prime Minister pointed out, which is not appropriate in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e206	I have not said that any of the measures pointed out by the Prime Minister will not be appropriate in Norway. I have pointed out that there are some parts of the Swedish sick pay scheme that will not be suitable in Norway. Therefore, I believe that there are elements in the Swedish scheme related to how the Swedes have managed to reduce the sick leave that we must be able to look at, while there are other elements in the Swedish scheme that will not be suitable in Norway, among others. where arrangements have been put in place to burden the worker to a greater extent than is the case in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e211	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e214	The state councils can only stand up. When I listen to the debate, I wonder if it's the budgetary balance that's most important, or if it's getting people to work, and that more people can stay healthy. What is the most important thing? We must not forget the most important questions in the debate: why do people get sick? Is there anything else we can do to prevent the workplace from getting sick? I'm going to give a good example from my own part of the country. In the municipality of Mandal, one has gone quite contrary to what the Prime Minister is talking about. There's just a 365-day self-report. In Mandal the municipality has an active interest in prevention. The sick leave has become much lower than in the rest of the country. So my question is, is it relevant for the Council of State to use a little less energy to discuss the decision-making possibilities for sick leave and to look at whether these are prevention measures that you can use in the rest of the country?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e223	I want to look at all the instruments that will help us to reduce sick leave in Norway. I have also been presented for the example of Mandal. I think this is a good proposal, from which we should of course also learn. I am concerned that it is important that we think in the debate that there are people affected by sick leave. It is not good for anyone to stay out of work for a long time. One of the most disturbing features I have seen in the underlying statistics is that among young girls between 20 and 24 years of age, sick leave increases most. There's no good way to start adult life. We know that the longer one is sickened, the shorter the path to staying out of the labour market. So we have to look for all the measures. That is why I am also pleased that employers will join in and see if there is anything that can be done, so that they get more financial gain by helping people not to get sick. Employers will benefit from this, and it will not least benefit employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e230	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e233	It seems that you agree very much on the problem. The Council of State says that you will be willing to look at all measures to get something done in this area. The employer's responsibilities are mentioned. You've been under Nav's responsibility. You've been under the responsibility of doctors. Is it true that the Workers' Party might be willing to discuss that workers too have a responsibility to reduce sick leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e238	In the Soria Moria Declaration, we have said that we will uphold the rights of workers to sickness benefits. That is the starting point for the work we do in cooperation with the employee organisations. It is important that we have good contact with the employee organisations, because I think it is those who know where the shoe prints the most. I also believe that contributions to measures that could reduce sick leave may come from employee organisations. In the dialogue we are going to have with the parties, we will of course also listen to the advice of the employees on how we can contribute to an even more inclusive working life and even less sick leave in the years to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e243	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e246	I have a question to the Council of State Aasrud. From last year to this year, the total cost of our sickness and social security schemes increased by over 30 billion kroner. That means that more and more people are falling out of our welfare community. In many ways it's right to say that we have a hole in the welfare community, and more and more falls through. At the same time, we know that there is a great difference between the public and private sectors. Since the IA agreement was introduced, for example: large parts of Norwegian industry are ready to reduce sick leave, while large parts of the public sector remain a nuisance. We also know that in one of the areas where there is the highest level of sick leave, namely health and social care, there are a lot of private people who get it, for example. Ammerudlunden nursing home. There, targeted measures have made it possible to reduce sick leave significantly. My question to the Council of State is: What does the Council of State have to learn from the private sector when it comes to reducing sick leave?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e257	I think it's important that we learn from each other, also from those who have done it in the private sector. There are great differences. As the representative of Røe Isaksen says, the industry has managed to reduce sick leave very much. In the latest figures we are now seeing, sick leave in construction has increased considerably. Also in other industries such as communications, the IT industry, there has been a significant increase in recent years. With regard to the public sector, some parts have been able to reduce sick leave — the post is a good example of this — while other parts of the public sector have not been able to reduce sick leave. I think it's important in the work we're going into, that we learn from each other, learn from the good examples. I am therefore pleased that the Government is attacking sick leave policy in a very broad area, and that the Minister of Health and Welfare will set up a joint body to look at and investigate health-related absenteeism and exclusion in the health and care sectors. It is one of the sectors where there is the highest level of sick leave. I think we need to learn from and look at what has been done both in the private sector and not least in the public sector, in order to reduce sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e265	I am very pleased that the Council of State says that an attack should be made on the increasing level of sick leave. The right has also said that it is important that we get out of the trenches, that not all new measures, all new proposals, should be met with criticism, scepticism or accusations of attacking someone. We've seen that this week, where, among other things. The head of the union and central government member of the Workers' Party Jan Davidsen have said that the government declares war on trade union movement. He has warned through several media that the Trade Union is going to go against all of the Government's actions. Last time Prime Minister Jens Stoltenberg tried to do something about the sickness pay system and sick leave, he was stopped by Gerd-Liv Valla. So my question is, how is the Council of State going to bring the trade movement this time, when it has already notified that it is against the measures proposed by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e270	I perceive that there is a great deal of interest in – and many who have views on – how to reduce sick leave in Norway. I am pleased that, by the end of the IA contract period we have, we now have a constructive dialogue with the employees' and employers' organisations. So I think it's to live with that through such a process we will have different inputs. As the representative himself says, there have been many different suggestions on the table, and people are both in favour and against them. But I have faith that this time, together with the parties, we will come up with arrangements that allow us to get good solutions to what I perceive is a common problem for many of us who are in charge in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e275	There will be three follow-up questions – first the representative Svein Flötten.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e278	Yesterday I was at Sunnmøre and visited several industrial companies that had an eye-catchingly low sick leave, as an advocacy to what the representative Røe Isaksen mentions, that there is often a significantly lower sick leave in the private companies. When you ask what the reason is, it is simply the common responsibility for the result and for the company to continue to function. Now the Council of State has just said that there are also single companies in the public sector that work well, which have good results. But is the Council satisfied that this happens at random in public? What will she do from her position to put in place specific measures where one can learn from what is happening in the private sector, namely, that there is performance responsibility and management that need to be reinforced in order to obtain these results?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e283	It's not true that the private is much better than the public. In fact, in the state area, we have lower sick leave than the average absence in Norway. But I think one of the major challenges in the work we have had with the IA agreement is that there have been too many businesses and too many businesses and too many managers who have not done a basic good follow-up work. In those companies and organisations where there has been a lot of focus on IA work, where managers have worked with IA together with employees, there have been results. That's why I think when we're going to put forward a new IA agreement, we need to find measures that are more specific, address the problem even more, and I don't ignore the fact that we need to find mechanisms that make it better to see how companies follow up IA work in the future, so that we can have even more insight into what's going on and not succeed in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e288	Robert Eriksson – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e291	I think we all agree that it is far too dramatic that we are getting an increase in social security expenditure by NOK 30 billion from one year to the next. However, if we go back two years in time: in 2007, some changes were made to the medical practice, among others. pending medical report, which is one of the measures that has been used to a very small extent. We also know that Nav should have a key role to play in making this work, in order to follow up the health policy, to follow up both the employee and the employer and to get the dialogue meetings with the doctor to go well. We also see that the demands made in 2007 have not yet been followed up by Nav. How will the Council of State ensure clear performance requirements for Nav, in order to follow up the medical practice adopted two years ago?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e296	There is no doubt that we have had challenges in the Nav system to get as good results as we want. It's a pleasure that after 26 weeks, the number of conversations is growing rapidly. Dialogue meetings are now being held in about 56 p.m. of the cases, and in some cases it would not be natural to organise dialogue meetings, when employees are sick and, for example: is in a hospital. So it's improvement. I also have figures that show that employers' responsibility for following up employees under the IA agreement has not been properly followed up, at least not what has been notified to the Nav system. However, the underlying studies show that more dialogue meetings are being conducted than reported. Of course, it is important that we have a Nav system that works, in order to be able to follow up those who are sick over time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e301	Kjell Ingolf Roppstad – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e304	The Council of State – and to the extent that the Prime Minister in the past – has stressed, very wisely, that the further dialogue with the social partners is crucial to closing down sick leave. In this sense, it's hardly hard to be able to get to some point that trumping through actions on this plane will be very difficult to get to. It has been tried in the past, without any particular luck. But the work of an inclusive working life is an incredibly important task, and it is an example of a matter in which it is absolutely an advantage that both the political system and the working life stand together, both because it gives more wisdom and because it gives a greater weight to being able to take action. From the Christian People's Party's side, we are committed to contributing and taking responsibility for this, for the benefit of the individual at work. Is the Council of State prepared to participate actively in the preparations for a new IA agreement, as a national effort, as well as the Stortinget and the party groups? And then, what kind of process does she intend to add up to to to make sure that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e309	There is no doubt that the work on a new IA agreement is, as the representative says, a responsibility for the Government and the social partners. We have now started a process where we first set up an expert group – we are going to work and have an ambition that we will be done with that work on 1 March. I will not ignore the fact that it would be appropriate to consult the batch groups if there are proposals that make it natural. Otherwise, the IA agreement and the instruments to be used in the IA agreement will be subject to ordinary treatment in the Storting through the State budget and, where appropriate, other proposals promoted by the Government in the wake of the work we are to have.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e315	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e318	The question goes to the Minister for Children and Gender Equality. All kids have the right to a safe upbringing. The draft budget of the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality strongly demonstrates the seriousness of the situation in the field of child protection and the high level of child protection. Subjects have an average length of proceedings of eight weeks, with a requirement of four weeks. 734 kids are waiting for a foster home. Waiting for clarification is difficult, especially when it comes to what is the very basis for the security of a young child's life: where you are going to live, and who you are going to live with. And as if that wasn't enough, there are 680 kids under child-restraint measures who are missing supervisors, so they have to take care of their legal security. Municipal Child Protection is strongly under-dimensioned. This also leads to a downward trend in prevention work. In the case of child protection, the authorities go into extreme cases and take care of their parents. It's a big responsibility. Then we can have no lower ambition than a child protection unit without bottlenecks, and thus full coverage at all stages. The situation in the field of child protection requires a State Council with power of action and strategic capacity. We are almost in the target of full child care because of clear policy objectives, deadlines and commitment plans — and where the necessary instruments are used. The time has come for a stepping-up plan for full child-resistance coverage, so that all joints can offer an adequate range of services. The question to the Council of State is therefore: What strategy does the Council of State have in order to give child protection the necessary promise?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e331	I like the question. It is also linked to a proposal promoted by the Christian People's Party in the Great Britain. We can discuss the concept of full child protection, because it's a moveable goal. But the fact that all the kids who are exposed in their upbringing will get an offer from child protection if the care they get from home is not good enough, must be an obvious goal for any government, and is doubtful for this government. We are, as the representative knows, already in the process of strengthening the first line, strengthening the municipal child protection service. Let's do that, for example. through the 400 posts of the municipalities notified in the budget proposal, and we are in dialogue with the KS to ensure that the money allocated there actually becomes jobs that can again relieve the pressure on child protection in many parts of the country. We are also in the process of establishing a central unit for the population, precisely with the aim of improving the control of treatment in the denominators, of being able to become more flexible, for example. with regard to flagging of cases by the denominators, thereby exploiting the available procedural capacity in other counties. So it's important to say that one reason why child protection is under pressure is that we've seen a clear increase in the number of concerns messages, in the number of issues that child protection is going to deal with. I don't think that's because there are more children being treated badly in our society, but because the reputation of child protection is significantly better than before. Several people have confidence in child protection, some want to have something to do with child protection. It's a positive development, but it requires that we also follow up on the resource side, and that's the government going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e344	I thank you for your answer. The last thing the Council of State mentions is not least very important. It is important to have a broad approach to how we create safe growth, also in order to prevent young people from facing the challenges that make them need help from child protection. The Council of State refers to cooperation with the KS, and to the budget, with 400 new posts in municipal child protection. However, local authorities have major problems in prioritising this. A review carried out by the Municipal Report shows that only one of three councillors has proposed new posts in child protection next year in their municipalities. The question to the Council of State will therefore be: does the Council of State see the need for new measures and the need for a binding child-restraint plan to succeed in the promise that is needed?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e355	There is a need for more measures in the field of child protection. It's not just about resources, although it's an important side, it's also about structure. That is why we are in the process of evaluating the administrative reform carried out in 2004. I want to look at the interaction between municipal and state child protection, I want to look at the balance between private and public institutions, and I want to look at measures that can bring down the use of institutions. All of this is aimed at creating a better child protection for children – and I think there is structural intervention that can be taken. But then resources are important, precisely because we see that child protection is becoming more and more – a development that we have worked a lot to achieve. I believe that the 400 posts will become a reality. We had a meeting with KS yesterday. We have a dialogue with them. The challenge for the municipalities is now to show that the priorities of the free resources are also taken into account. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e362	There will be four follow-up questions – first Dagrun Eriksen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e365	The councils and his party have long had a strong and affordable commitment to child protection. In 2005, Audun Lyssbakken said the following to the class struggle: ‘When the history of our time is written, the treatment of children will remain a Norwegian sham. Despite the fact that the UN Convention on the Rights of the Child obliges Norway to the opposite, this reckless treatment continues for young people who have come to the country to ask for help.’ [[...]] This promise and this treatment have now been canceled by the Government. There is no longer a desire to transfer responsibility for the lone minor asylum seekers aged 15 or over to the protection of children. Does the Council of State now believe, in 2009, that it is no longer a disgrace to deny asylum seekers the same rights to supervision and follow-up as the vulnerable Norwegian children have?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e377	Since 2005, the Government has made clear what the previous government has not been able to do, namely to ensure that asylum seekers under the age of 15 have become the responsibility of child protection – we have also clearly improved the situation for them over the age of 15. I am reasonably sure of two things: one is that my commitment, and the Christian People's Party and the representative of Eriksen, for children on the run, for asylum seekers, is just as strong. I'm burning for this. So I'm sure one more thing, and that is that if the Christian People's Party had been in government today, politics would have been exactly the same as the one that this government is running. We haven't canceled the goal, but we've said that we're going to implement it as soon as possible. With the arrival figures we have today for asylum seekers, and with the pressured resource situation in child protection, which the Christian People's Party has just mentioned, I cannot promise that we will make it in this period. It would be irresponsible, for there are costs that I cannot see it will be possible to get coverage for within my budget. But that we have to do this as quickly as possible – that the goal is to [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e384	Solvent Horn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e387	The development of child protection is very alarming, and the Progress Party is afraid that very many of the headlines that have emerged in the media are just the top of an iceberg. More media headlines have recently shown how brutal and careless Norwegian child protection service can be. It is alarming that child protection, to take care of children, is one of the most unregulated welfare sectors in Norway. We also see that unprofessional providers and bad services have been allowed to express Norwegian child protection for too long. The Progress Party believes that we need to put in place a free and independent child protection agency that can defeat unprofessional actors and poor care. My question to the Council of State will be if he sees the concern that the Progress Party sees. Will the Council of State ensure that we have free and independent child protection supervision in Norway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e396	I think it is exciting that the Progress Party addresses this issue, because the biggest child protection scandal that has recently occurred has occurred in the progressive party-driven Oslo. There has been evidence that there has been both the approval and supervision of an institution that should not have been approved. I contacted the Municipality of Oslo and the City Council to get an explanation of how this has been possible. It is such that under supervision children should be heard. I have also asked the County of Oslo and Akershus to explain why the child has obviously not been heard in this situation. Then there's a big paradox that in this particular company, which is called Velferd AS, we saw a dividend payment of municipal child protection money to the owner of 600,000 dollars last year. I have therefore started a work to assess whether the dividend limit can be an appropriate way of verifying that child protection benefits children and does not disappear elsewhere, as we have seen in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e404	Olemic Thommessen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e407	It's a problem for children's protection that we have had a choice, and that we are now going to start on the same expedient path in child protection that we have now done for four years. Four years ago, we stood here and described a child's protection in a deep crisis. Three state councils have come and gone since then, and now we're going to do the same thing, I'm going to say, humiliating the approach to child protection. I am pleased that the Council of State will evaluate arrangements. Dear Councillor, don't evaluate too long! It's been too long as it has. For example, we have examples in the case of child protection institutions — the last time there was a private, last time there was a public in Hordaland, where we had furniture houses with hashish smoking and other. What concrete measures, what structural measures can we take to actually change this, so that we release more such examples as we evaluate and evaluate further?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e416	The President will remind you that all speeches must be addressed to the President. This applies even if a chooser chooses to use the form of action ‘love’, which is otherwise a pleasant form of action.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e419	President! Dear representative. I'm very busy taking action on child protection, because I firmly believe that Norwegian child protection can be even better. This means that we should look at this in its full scope – look at the interaction between the state and the municipality. We're going to look at how we can strengthen the resources in the first line, and we're going to look at how we can make the communities work better, and then we're going to look at the issues that I think are also important in order to gain control of the economy and quality, namely the balance between public and private services where there is a very large proportion of private institutions today. We're going to look at the reduction in institutional use, which is a goal, and we're going to work for more knowledge-based child protection. But let me just say that I distance myself from the concept of ‘crisis’ in child protection, because there is an incredible amount of positive in Norwegian child protection, and parts of the strained resource situation are due to much more child protection enquiries than before – more concerns. It's also a symptom of a positive development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e424	Step Skei Grande – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e427	We have, as the representative from the Right said, had state councils that have come and gone, and everyone will take this. I think it's positive as long as we get new state councils that are still going to take hold of this – and it's clear that it's positive what the council says about both structure and intentions. The intentions of the child protection reform were very good. We are behind those intentions, but when it comes to evaluating, there is already a Fafo report that concludes. What the Fafo report says – I can give reading guidance to the Council of State – is that there are major cooperation problems, especially between the municipal and the state. What you see is that Bufetat is getting very bureaucratic. It's a very resource-intensive organization, and the bureaucracy there is moving away from the children and creating structures for the sake of the structures. Left wants – and we have also inserted a Document No. 8-proposals here in the Chamber – to strengthen municipal child protection. Move power down, move structures down towards children.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e434	There is a lot of good work done in Bufetat, and as for what has triggered the last round of child protection debate, I think there is reason to remember that the institution that was there last week was approved by the Municipality of Oslo, and not by Bufetat. That being said, I would like to say that I am taking the Fafo report seriously. It cannot be the only basis for such a debate, because it is a relatively limited study, with 19 informants, but I take it seriously, and it should be part of the basis for the work we are going to do on evaluation. And then we also see that there's a big difference between what the municipalities report in terms of how satisfied they are with the follow-up from the state team. Small municipalities are more satisfied than large municipalities, e.g. I think we just have to admit that we have problems with the cooperation between the state and the municipality a lot of places. We have many teams around that we can learn a lot from, and that do this very well. There is a lot of good practice that we can spread elsewhere, but during the evaluation we will also look at whether there are structural interventions that need to be taken from now on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e441	Let's move on to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e444	I will be asked a question to the Minister of Economic Affairs. This week came the quarterly report from the NHO, where 2,200 enterprises have been asked about the development of their own business and what they think will happen in the future. This quarterly report shows that every third industrial enterprise expects to leave workers on leave in the next three months. Furthermore, there are similar problems with the construction sector, and not least with the tourism industry. I have seen that the Council of State has done a thorough job. He travels around and tries to get an overview of the situation both in the yard industry and in other major businesses, and it is the Council of State to honor. We need good knowledge, and we need a good overview in order to put in place the right measures to get out of the financial crisis – which this report clearly shows is that we are not out of business, despite statements by some bank managers. However, what is worrying, as I see it, is the lack of focus we have had on small and medium-sized enterprises. It is obvious that those who are first hit when it starts going down also in large industrial enterprises are subcontractors — and they are very often small and medium-sized enterprises. These are also the companies that will be hardest hit by an interest rate increase, because often equity is not very high. I would like to ask the Minister of Industry the following questions: What specific measures and work has the Council of State now taken to improve the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e457	Let me first say that I think it is well worth listening to the NHO when they do such an investigation. Although the figures in the NHO survey differ slightly from those of both the Norwegian Bank and the Ministry of Finance — among others. estimates lower private consumption growth in 2010 and lower investment in the oil sector — this is also based on inputs from many hundreds of enterprises that know what their market situation looks like per capita. today, and estimates what will happen in 2010. The most important thing we can learn from the survey to the NHO is the following: the crisis is not over — it is especially not towards those companies that depend on export markets that are either in dramatic cases or perhaps completely gone. This means that we still need to focus our economic policy, our industrial policy, on combating the financial crisis. It is about maintaining demand, for example: in the construction sector – the January package of measures was a very strong incentive for demand for refurbishment, new buildings, public investment, etc. That's what we've done in other sectors, for example. Depreciation rules — which we did something about in 2009 — and this also applies to the 2010 state budget. There the criticism from the opposition has so far been that we have not tightened enough into the use of oil money, but perhaps these figures from the NHO show that the level on which the government has committed itself is quite appropriate. After all, we had criticism in the autumn of 2008 because our budget for this year was too expansive. Then we were criticised when the package of measures came – I think Sanner said it was too small and too late – and then we were criticised when the 2010 budget was presented, because we did not tighten enough. I think the story will show that the level we have applied – that is, both in the autumn of 2008, January 2009 and October 2010 – has been quite right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e466	The issue of what the Council of State now says, and the growth in the budget, is that growth has come mainly in the public sector, and precisely in the social benefits sector, with health benefits, etc. to do. That's where the biggest growth has been, which is exactly the problem. It is a problem that small and medium-sized enterprises will also face in the future, because it is the small and medium-sized enterprises that are the bearer of the Norwegian system. This is where there is a large number of workers, and in particular in the districts it is very important to have measures related to this. When the Council of State refers to its actions, he forgets to mention one, and it is that the interest rate path to the Bank of Norway shows that the interest rate will increase over time, i.e. that the situation will be further exacerbated for small and medium-sized enterprises. We have also seen that the state has not been able to implement enough efficiency measures related to the bureaucracy and the available form field. My question to the Council of State is this: will the Council of State now address this issue and provide measures to assist small and medium-sized enterprises beyond what is in the budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e476	The answer to the last one is yes. We're going to work with the small and medium-sized enterprises. Among other things, we need to: look at this by reducing red tape and reporting, and we will look at legislation to get the best possible situation for small and medium-sized enterprises. However, it is simply wrong when the representative says that the package of measures – which properly stimulates a lot of public effort – does not help small businesses. Think only of the construction sector, of the small joinery enterprises or other contractors that are given commission because of this effort. Consider, for example: on what the fact that very many have safe jobs means for private demand – very many small and medium-sized enterprises live by trade and service. This is absolutely crucial for them. The Norwegian model itself, how much of the business is public, and where demand is quite constant, is a huge stabiliser in a financial crisis. It turns out that Norway comes out of this crisis as a country in Europe with the lowest unemployment. Maybe the representative should think about when he goes into frontal attacks in the Norwegian way of organizing society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e483	There will be four follow-up questions – first, Tord Lien.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e486	The government has said that the budget has as its primary objective to help competitive industries through the financial crisis. So the Council of State has traveled around Norway and talked about how innovation and research should also help small and medium-sized enterprises out of the crisis. There is no doubt that Statoil, Elkem and Hydro have resources to leave Norway and make good use of support schemes for research and development in other countries such as Finland, the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. Small and medium-sized enterprises generally do not have this possibility. There, the Ministry of Industry has a concrete and very good tool called the User-led Innovation Arena. However, the fact is that 144 projects requested will now be scrapped and not implemented in 2010. This is a pedagogical problem. How does the fact that the BIA is not now able to launch new projects in 2010 harmonize with the fact that the Government will help SMEs through innovation and research?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e493	Let me first say that I fully agree that the approach to e.g. the export industry needs to be able to adapt, research, innovation and development in order to be competitive in the future when markets come back. We cannot replace export markets that have disappeared, but we can help to ensure that businesses are ready for change and competitive when the markets – the new markets, well to mark – come back. With regard to the arrangements the representative is talking about, the reality is that the 2010 budget is record high. It is larger than the ordinary budget for 2009. In fact, we have done things in the field of action, but there is a historically high focus on user-driven innovation in enterprises. We can't have a setup where we can always cover the whole need. But fortunately, there is so much innovation and research drive in business that demand is much greater than public supply of subsidies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e502	Svein Fleet – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e505	The message that the supplier and shipping industry at More sent me to the Council yesterday was in short version like this: If the crisis is over, it's at Aker Brygge. This is where we're fucked. It's been reinforced by what he's been saying here. It is strange that the depreciation rules introduced in February were removed in October. In order to work in 2010, the additional depreciation that would strengthen financing and improve equity is gone. It is also in this message. When will the Council of State realize that it was wrong, and repair that conclusion?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e514	I don't think the Council of State is going to realize that this is wrong, because the Council of State thinks it is right. There is always a discussion about when to phase out the various crisis measures, and increasing the depreciation rules was a crisis response. It is preferable that the depreciation rules reflect the actual situation of the company and reflect the depreciation value of the depreciation. My impression is that the representative’s colleague in the Financial Committee believes that the Government has phased out the crisis measures too slowly, that the use of oil money is too high, and that the balance of the budget is too poor. So if the Right Party in the Business Committee could talk a little bit to the Right in the Financial Committee and decide whether the crisis measures are too big or too small, we could get an even better discussion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e521	Rigmor Andersen Eide – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e524	I am pleased that the Council of State has come to the same recognition as the NHO and I agree that the crisis in business is not over. The report shows that there is pessimism in the outlook for 2010. The Christian People's Party believes that the Government's proposals for the government budget do not address these challenges, especially in the case of small and medium-sized enterprises. The Christian People's Party follows up NHO's advice on increasing depreciation rates from 20 p.m. until 25 pst. It is important to ensure investment that builds jobs. However, the Christian People's Party will also halve the employer's fee for apprentices, because we are committed to ensuring vulnerable young people's continued opportunities in the labour market. Many drop out of school, and youth unemployment has stuck to almost 10 pst., which is too high. Does the Council of State consider that there may be a need to look at the employer’s fee for apprentices in order to help a vulnerable group into the labour market?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e535	Now this is just under a government council other than me, but I don't think a general reduction in the employer's fee is a very accurate tool in this crisis. What we're seeing now is that the crisis is entering a new stage where, as the representative quite rightly says, some industries are much harder hit than others. The paradox is that while some enterprises and businesses and some workers see light in the tunnel, for example: the shipbuilding industry, maritime industry, on the way into a crisis. They've had a very good year in 2009, but 2010 and especially 2011 is going to be a lot, a lot tougher. I rather believe in having specific measures aimed at the industries that are struggling. GIEK and Export Finance are schemes that enable you to finance projects and enter into competition with the projects that are there. Conversion, innovation, the provision of permitting rules, etc. In my view, maintaining important competences is the most appropriate means of action in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e542	Borghild Tenden – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e546	In approx. We have had a tax exemption for biodiesel in Norway for ten years. In June this year, Environment Minister Erik Solheim opened the Uniol with congratulations and clarifications on the importance of biodiesel. Then I stand here with a letter signed by then Minister of Finance Kristin Halvorsen, dated 21 October 2008. It's for the Norwegian Bioenergy Association. It says the following: ‘The government wants to stimulate the increased use of alternative fuels to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the transport sector. The government has therefore not proposed charging alternative fuels.» My question to the Minister for Industry is therefore: Does the Minister for Industry think this is predictable for businesses?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e558	The President has some doubts as to whether the supplementary question was precisely related to the main question, but it may be up to the Council of State if he wishes to answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e561	I can answer the question. In principle, I believe that the ideal would have been a completely constant tax system – a perfect tax system that was completely similar over the year. It's the best thing for business. Unfortunately, the world is not like this. The world is changing. We get more information, and the framework conditions change. Then we also have to make adjustments in the tax system. But more stability than we have had in the last five years — where, for example, the level of taxation. have been completely constant at 2004 level, for four to five years with the 2010 budget – I think you should look for a long time. In the case of biodiesel or biofuels, the reality is that with the proposals put forward by the Government, the use of biofuels will double in Norway in a few years. It is not the case that the market for this is being reduced. Regulations, rather than charging policies, will greatly increase in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e570	The size goes to the last main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e573	My question goes to the Minister of Inclusion. There has been a lot of talk in this issue of challenges and threats to the welfare state. Sick pay and financial crisis have been mentioned. The Party Party Secretary Raymond Johansen has been on Gol and explained another threat to the welfare state, according to him, namely the import of Poles. At the turn of the year, Poland was the largest immigrant group in Norway – 42,500. Pakistan is the second largest group of 30,000. Polish immigrants come to Norway to work. Most come here fully educated. They participate in a wide range of work and make a huge effort to get the wheels to walk around Norway. However, the party secretary Raymond Johansen is concerned. At the LO cartel conference on Gol, Johansen warned against the import of Poles threatening the welfare state, according to the Evening Post. Johansen goes on to say: ‘Some people believe that our labour needs over the next decades can be solved by bringing Poles here. We have to get our eyes up. It's not a solution to the challenge. A lot of Poles are coming here. They earn little and work very much and send money home. But many stay in Norway and are exhausted after working 15 hours a day. Then they go to social security. He fears that these will eventually move home with Norwegian social security in his pocket. Raymond Johansen, in other words, sees labour immigration as a problem. However, in the opinion of the Right, Norway and the Norwegian economy have benefited greatly. Does the Minister for Inclusion Lysbakken think that the statements of the Party Secretary of the Workers' Party that imports of Poles threaten the welfare of the country are fortunate?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e589	Raymond Johansen himself has made it clear how his statements should be understood. Neither he nor the Government has any view other than that the labour immigration we have had and will have in Norway is essential for the welfare state and important for the Norwegian economy. We will also in the future be dependent on labour migrants to solve important tasks in our society. People who come here to work on Norwegian pay and contract terms are not only welcome here, but we really need them. In that context, I would like to point out something that, in my view, is very pleasing. In the annual survey of attitudes related to immigration and inclusion by the Central Bureau of Statistics, which was presented yesterday, it is very clear that this attitude has a strong foothold in the population as well. The figures show that seven out of ten fully or fairly agree that most immigrants make a useful effort in Norwegian working life. A marginal part of the population disagrees with that. Very many also recognise in the study the positive contribution that, among other things, the many polishes give to the Norwegian economy. So our challenge is to make sure that we have a working life that doesn't lead to social dumping. It is then essential to have a well-regulated working life, with a strong trade union movement and with the power of the labour force, which means that trade unions and professionally elected workers have power. That is the area where there will be great disagreement between the Government and the Right, because the Right has wanted to pursue a policy that would weaken the workers' power, and thus facilitate more social dumping.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e600	I thank you for the answer – at least the first part of it. The new Minister of Inclusion has made it clear that it is important to separate the immigration debate and the integration debate. Right-wing agreement. Today we have free immigration from the EEA area, but we have few follow-up actions towards EEA citizens who become unemployed. In the summer, the right launched a proposal to impose activities on EEA citizens who become unemployed — we are thinking in particular of compulsory Norwegian training — in order to make them better qualified for further professional participation. Today, permitted foreigners lose their daily allowance if they attend Norwegian courses. Will the State Council change the rules so that unemployed EEA citizens can better qualify for professional participation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e607	This is in the border country for what's my responsibility, up against other departments. It's hard for me to comment on the Right-proposal on the standing foot. I haven't looked at that in more detail. I'd like to do that. I'm very concerned about, and the Government is very concerned about, improving access to Norwegian education and knowledge about Norwegian society. We know that this is the most important question about whether people coming here are well qualified to enter Norwegian working life — and not least what parts of Norwegian working life they enter. Thus, language is also a key to the fight against social dumping. So strengthening Norwegian training and looking at how we can get more groups into Norwegian training is a relevant and important debate, which I will look at.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e614	There will be two follow-up questions – first Erna Solberg.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e617	If we ignore the unfortunate characteristics of the Party Secretary in the Workers' Party, it is a theme in the extension of the discussion that it is essential to address. It is that we need new integration strategies also for those who come to Norway as workers, but we cannot impose rules other than for the Nordics, because they are in the EEA. So we get a lot of Poles that can come in the same situation as those that came to Norway in the 1970s, if we're not proactive, for example. in Norwegian training, and if we are not proactive about how we integrate them better. My challenge to the Minister for Integration is: Has he at all considered a strategy for meeting these groups with new types of integration measures? Here, both men and women come to work, and we know that many also work without rights in the black labour market.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e624	It is a crucial question, and we focus on it because we strongly want everyone who comes to Norway to be properly treated and to have access to contribute to our society, while at the same time not weakening the rules of the game that we want to apply, among others. in Norwegian working life. Thus, awareness of rights and access to knowledge about Norwegian society and language is a key. The government has done several things about providing more information and contact between authorities and immigrants. We have also been committed to strengthening the opportunities of the trade union movement to do this, and I will look at how we can use the inclusion policy instruments we have, and which we use today, among other things. to refugees and others coming here on other grounds, in order to strengthen the follow-up of these groups.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e632	Gjermund Hagesetter – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e635	To the Minister of Renewal: In the Progress Party, we are committed to ensuring the welfare of the Norwegian people, and then the renewal and modernisation of the public sector is important. It seemed that the government party was also busy with it in the election campaign, but when the election is over, one is not so much busy improving the public sector. In the last four years, the Progress Party may find it difficult to see that there are some major and important moves to improve the public sector. Then is my question to the Council of State: will the next four years also be a skeptic in terms of renewing and developing the public sector, or will it be time to take action in the future to improve the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e642	The President noted that the follow-up questions should be related to the main issue. This issue was much more apparent as a new issue and is therefore a circumvention of the Rules of Procedure. Governments would like to answer the question, but the questioners have a responsibility to keep the question institute in order.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e647	I have no problem answering the representative's follow-up questions. The government has carried out extensive renewal work in the last four years. We produced a report last autumn that shows over 700 actions carried out in the area of renewal in the last four years, and I want to take the opportunity to explain some of them that I think are important in that context. The use of electronic services frees up large resources. For example, the Loan Fund has introduced an electronic procedure and it saves about 50 million. kr above its operating budget through it. The tax system has carried out extensive work on the use of electronic services for business and private individuals, which also provides large savings. The last thing I want to remember is that we are now implementing an electronic free card system that will also mean significant savings at the administrative level of the Nav system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e656	Then the oral question procedure is changed, and we're going to the ordinary question mark.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e662	There will be some changes to the list of questions set out, and the President will refer in this context to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 3, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, has been transferred to the Minister for Transport, who is directly responsible. Questions 10 and 11 from Svein Harberg and Henning Warloe, respectively, to the Minister for Research and Higher Education, are postponed to the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e678	I would like to ask the Minister of Defence the following questions: ‘The size has decided to establish a centre of expertise for command, control and information systems at Jørstadmoen, Lillehammer. It's also a fact that the Storting has repeated this to make sure that that happens. When does the Council of State consider that it will be possible to implement the measure, in line with the wishes of the Storting?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e692	Defence competence centre for command, control and information systems – we know it as FK KKIS – was established at Jørstadmoen in 2005. The establishment was in line with the decision of the Storting in connection with the examination of the previous long-term defence plan, which was the subject of the further modernisation in the period 2005-2008. As you know, the background to the establishment of the Centre was not least the need to strengthen the management of defence operational resources and environments related to information and communication technologies. As part of the Centre of Competence, one Joint Operational and Modular Unit for Command and Control Information Systems was established. This was considered necessary to achieve comprehensive, effective and coordinated ICT solutions for Norwegian forces nationally and internationally. In considering the current long-term defence plan, the Defence Committee underlined the importance of pooling ICT resources in defence as far as possible. Therefore, in line with the Stortingen’s treatment of the state budget for the current year, the head of the Defence Information Infrastructure — we know it as INI — was established with the staff on 1 August 2009 in Oslo. The aim is to improve the overall management and development of the Defence Information Infrastructure and to ensure better control and efficient use of the Defence's overall ICT resources. In addition, Chief INI shall direct the development towards a networked defence. A single line of responsibility and reporting will be provided by large parts of ICT activities in the Defence Sector. The activities of Chief INI will include the Defence Logistics Organisation's ICT operations with staff at Kolsås, the Computer Network Operations Unit at Kjeller, the Communication Information Systems Task Group and the Defence Archives Administration at Jørstadmoen. The Centre of Competence of the Defence Command, Control and Information Systems is continued on Jørstadmoen in line with the previous Decision on Storing. Other innovation, network capacity and information structure activities, as a consequence of the tasks, are decentralised in order to provide direct support to the defence other departments. The government is concerned about both caring for and developing the good professional environment that the defense has at Jørstadmoen. We will therefore also look at the possibilities for further strengthening this power centre as experience is gained with the new organisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e709	I thank the Council of State for the answer. It could have been tempting to have a question time about abbreviations in the defense, because they have a lot, and those are great terms. So it's a challenge to hang out sometimes. I am pleased with the Government's response, which I see as positive, and which I perceive is in line with what the Stortinget has asked for. At the same time, I would prefer to ask the Council of State whether this has been unproblematic. Unfortunately, there is sometimes a tendency that matters and decisions taken related to defence often have a political balance against district measures, and it is also likely that a decision taken is often challenged by new decisions. My question will therefore be: Has this implementation been unproblematic from other professional environments in Defence?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e718	Now the representative Ellingen asks a Minister of Defence with short history in office. I want to say that, first of all, I have every possible understanding of how demanding it is to deal with all the abbreviations. Even for a person with speed in the technology industry, I think it was the other way around. It will always be important to strengthen good trade unions, including in the defence sector, and here I feel that we have found a good way to secure infrastructure solutions – ICT solutions provide room for that – while at the same time we have secured the problem solution, decentralised, where we play in a good way on the strong resources that are also on Jørstadmoen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e725	I thank you again for the answer, and as I said – abbreviations and defense are an interesting sport in itself. I appreciate the fact that the Council of State is as direct as she is, and of course I have every respect for the fact that the Council of State has been Minister of Defence for a short time. I see that the Council of State has a great deal of integrity, both historical and otherwise. So I'm not afraid of that. I think it is good to look at opportunities in places that are perhaps not obvious as a first choice, but that – if there are opportunities – you actually take care of the opportunities that you get, and that it is also possible to develop further. So by extension, I might have two questions for the Council of State. One is: when this is as successful as the Council of State describes it, the Council of State sees new tasks as possible. can FK KKIS be added, to use the name that I believe the Council of State was in? Alternative: does the Council now see some challenges in terms of vulnerability in putting a project of this dimension at a place that for some will be a little peripheral, and for others will be extremely central?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e732	I think there are two key issues that are important to bring forward in the process that have led us to where we are now. One is that in this INI staff the tasks are mainly a further development of the tasks of the former Department of Infrastructure in the Defence Staff, with the addition of some former tasks. in the department. The establishment of the INI staff in Oslo is therefore not a weakening of the Defence Competence Centre, FK KKIS at Jørstadmoen. So in itself it's not. The information infrastructure intervenes in all parts of the activities of the Defence Agency, and it requires good overall governance. And the overall planning and governance in this area has, therefore, also been taken care of in the past by the Armed Forces and the Department, and the further development of what this area will look like, we can come back to it on another occasion.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e740	I want to ask the Minister of Finance a question: ‘Many Norwegian pensioners abroad are concerned after receiving a letter from the Skatetaten that their pension as of 1 January 2010 will be deducted by 15 pst. taxes to Norway before payment. The letter discloses an exemption from paying that tax. Taxes must themselves provide this documentation. It will take too many people time, and they may experience a long period of low payments due to double taxation. Will the Council of State initiate practical and flexible transitional arrangements?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e749	The background to the Tax Act on withholding taxes on pensions is that, from 2010, withholding taxes on pensions paid from Norway to persons residing abroad are to be deducted, unless it follows from a tax agreement between Norway and the country of residence that the pension is not to be taxed in Norway. In order to allow Norwegian tax authorities to determine whether the taxpayer is entitled to exemption from the withholding tax, it is necessary to demonstrate that the taxpayer is actually a tax resident in that country. That letter from the Tax Administration explains the requirements for such documentation. The tax arrangements govern the taxation at the level of the equation. They do not regulate the advance section. However, the information provided by the Tax Agency also applies to how those who believe they are entitled to an exemption may apply for it already at the migration stage. Based on all the information provided by the Ministry in connection with the introduction of withholding taxes on pensions, I find it hard to understand that it would come as a surprise to some that it is necessary to document where they reside in order to release withholding taxes on pension payments from Norway, and from 2010. The documentation requirement set out in the information provided by the Tax Directorate is that the applicant for tax exemption for the entire pension under a tax agreement must disclose who pays the pension and attach a residence confirmation from the tax authorities of the country of residence. The residence confirmation is required to be issued by the tax authorities and expressly confirms that he is a tax resident in the country concerned under the tax agreement with Norway. Confirmation must be original and not more than three months old. Source taxes apply only to persons who are tax emigrated from Norway. Those who are still tax resident in Norway under the Tax Act are taxable here under the general rules of the Tax Act. All those with a lasting relationship with Norway will remain tax resident here under the tax law for the first years after their removal. However, they could be considered as resident in e.g. Spain if they move there and show confirmation of their residence from there. I find it difficult to see that it means some unreasonable burden that the person who is also taxed has to present residence confirmation in order to release withholding taxes on pensions. Clear and efficient documentation requirements ensure that those entitled to exemption are provided with it. In my view, the documentation requirement at the drawing stage implies a smooth, practical and fair application of the rules of the Tax Payments Act on advance payments. In my view, the precise instructions given on how taxpayers should behave properly ensure that predictability is taken into account and that the advance distance is as close as possible to the tax offset. In my view, when the legislation and its practice are as described above, there is no need for specific transitional arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e766	I thank you for your answer. Nobody here has said that it is an unreasonable burden-sharing to obtain proof of residence. This is complicated. I guess we're both happy to live in Norway. I don't know the rules either, but I've got a lot of phones from people who tell me that no one in Spain expected to get this letter, because you have a tax agreement. It's pretty complicated in Spain, you can't just go to a public office and get the form you need. I am informed that there are three or four different forms with names so long that I will not try to repeat them in Spanish, because I am not that fluent. But the point is that at least one of the forms is given in person. For many older people, this is a very big problem. It could be a long way to go, and there are cows to get it done. As this requirement went out at the beginning of November, I want to see it as natural that you might have a certain transitional arrangement to get the documentation in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e775	I can confirm that it is good to live in Norway, and even to live in Hedmark I think it is very good. I expect the questioner to agree with that as well. I do not ignore the fact that there may be some practical circumstances that may make it difficult to understand and obtain the necessary documents, but in general I believe that the matter has been known for so long. One started to work on this in 2004, it has been well-established and has been at considerable consultations before the case came to Stortinget. So it's actually been a good time to adapt and figure it out. But as I said, I don't think I can promise that there will be any special transitional arrangements. If there are very special technical problems, I do not ignore that it can cause problems, but I do not see the need for any special transitional arrangements.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e782	Whether to look at special transitional arrangements – at least I believe that the Minister of Finance should practice this with some flexibility. In general, I fully agree. This has been known for a long time by decision in Stortinget, but there's always something surprising about someone, almost in any case. So long the finance minister has been out in the media world that he sees how difficult it is to get the message to sink through to the last person who needs it, and it is often those who can be hit hardest. Some minimum pensioners and older people are not as much online as many others. I just want the Minister of Finance to take this with me. It's caused a lot of concern, and there's a lot of minimum pensioners who almost don't see how to get the ends to meet before you can get the documentation in place. It should be undertaken by the Ministry and, at least, practise it rather lightly during the transitional period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e789	I just want to point out something that I also had in mind in my answer: for those who have a lasting relationship with Norway, but who have emigrated for tax purposes, it will take a long time before they are exposed to this – in that way – because they are tax residents in Norway during the first years of their relocation. I think there's a time period here that makes it possible to do this in a good and sensible way. Otherwise, I just have to say that today is one month minus one day for the Christmas Eve, so at least we can try to prevent the Christmas evening from coming surprisingly on the curfew, as it is called on the Hedmark, because now it is a little less than one month. Then we might have gotten that uncertainty averted by the question-terror. But that was another thing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e796	The President is pleased with such information, including that of the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e802	This question, from the representative Per Roar Bredvold to the Minister of Defence, has been transferred to the Minister of Transport who is directing him.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e805	I would like to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘Many traders, e.g. those engaged in tourism and tourism have difficulty marketing themselves and their offers. This may include, inter alia: be signposting and, in this respect, lack of understanding from the ‘separate authorities’. Will the Council of State help to make roadside signs easier precisely to increase the turnover of businesses by making it interesting for more passengers to visit?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e814	Good signage is an important part of marketing for many businesses. A new sign was introduced on 1 June 2006 and a more liberal practice has been introduced in signposting than before. The state road service has, among other things, has been given the possibility of better and more informative signage than before. However, as a pedagogical authority, the State Road Administration must consider different approaches to each other. It's e.g. the importance of ensuring the safety of traffic. The sign defaults to the number of display targets that can be set in a crosshair without taking into account the attention of the road user away from the location's running and traffic conditions. For road safety reasons, the number of display targets that can be distinguished from each signet is limited to five or six. The state road authority states that where there are many geographical targets to be displayed, there will be little space for signs pointing towards a service activity. Where there is more desire for signage than the legislation allows, a priority must therefore be given. I have been informed that in situations where there are too many viewing targets in a crossroads, alternative methods can be used to show service activities. This could be done, for example, by: Configures the information boards in space. In some cases, a sign called the 'Separator-Separator-General' sign may be used. This sign shows you which locations or actions you can reach by following a common path in the next checkbox or runout. On such a pool, you can list the activities and offerings that you can now use by following the description of a common name - it is a common name for the actions, a geographical name or an outline expressing the type of activity or attraction signified by the lease. The state road authority shall try to find good and decent solutions. Although the rules do not always allow the primary request for a sign to be met in the form for which it is applied for, an alternative and satisfactory solution is often closed. As I know this matter today, I do not see the need for further liberalisation. I am confident that the State Road Service will carry out the liberalisation which was one of the objectives of the new Sign Code and the corresponding Sign Code.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e825	I thank the Council of State for an informative response. It is true that there was a liberalisation of the sign code for some years ago, but I get relatively many enquiries from companies, especially in travel, who want to set up a sign and who see how difficult it is. Unfortunately, you often get a negative answer. Now I had actually asked this question to the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade, so that you could see it from that point of view, even though I realize that of course this also has to do with road safety. But it's clear that if you run a business and it's hard to get a sign that tells you what you're doing, and where you're doing, it's hard to get a trade to live off. That is why I wanted the question to be answered by the Minister of Economic Affairs and Trade. So the Council of State sees no particular need for more liberalisation – was the response of the Council of State to understand that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e834	Let me say to everyone at first that I think it has a self-esteem that questions like this are taken up, because it gives an opportunity for more people to get to know the problem, of course, but also that there are actually solutions, for example. These composite signs. In practice, on our main roads, it is, of course, more difficult to set up a sign. There must be a more restrictive state road system against business operators. But there are also more possibilities that follow from this new type of sign, the combination sign, which makes it possible to display more actions on one sign. On the road with low traffic, the desire to signage is much more often met.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e841	I thank the Council of State for the answer. There's a great need for more signage to show where you're doing and what you're doing. This is especially true in the districts, where the traffic is going right past; tourists do not discover that there is something here that might be interesting to visit, and for the business people it is important that there is money left. That was really what my question was about. It also has something to do with signage of buildings – that you are allowed to put a sign on a building. It doesn't have much to do with this, but as I said, it's important to show you what you're doing, how you're doing it, and where you are. But I take the answer: that there is some liberalisation and that there are opportunities. Then we're going to hope that those who have problems marketing themselves get more positive answers from those who have to do with this, that they say yes to putting up signs, because as I said, there's a clear need for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e850	Let me say to the question of why it is the Minister of Transport and not the Minister of Industry who answers this question, that it has to do with the distinction itself, and that the State Road Service is below me. But it is clear that there are many practical issues that relate to different businesses, such as the Minister of Industry and I naturally have to talk to each other about. Let me stress that the state road authority should show understanding of the businessmen's desire for better signage. So they've also done that by offering these composite signs. Then I hope that understanding will also be shown for the concerns of road safety that need to be addressed. So I haven't seen any reason to make any changes, for the three years this new legislation has gone by, but of course we're going to be open to it for example.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e862	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘The Directorate-General for Road Transport has granted a derogation for the transport of live crabs to slaughterhouses to be exempted from the driving and rest periods, but no exemption shall be granted to horses intended for carriage to and from competitive trajectories. This is in serious conflict with the Animal Protection Act, which says that animals are to be transported from A to B without unnecessary obstacles. Competitive horses are the only ones who have no exceptions today. Will the Council of State also grant these exemptions?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e871	The rule to which the representative Hoksrud refers takes very important care. The running and sleeping rules include: with a view to improving road safety. Animal welfare laws shall ensure good conditions for the animals – e.g.: through the requirement to transport live animals as soon as possible up to the target. However, animal transport is also obliged to comply with speed limits, running and sleeping time rules and other road traffic rules. In this way, there is no legal conflict between animal protection laws and the requirements of the rules on running and rest periods. The animal protection legislation requires that transport of live animals be brought forward as quickly as possible by means of the restrictions imposed by road traffic legislation. However, I see that the goal of obtaining animal transport as quickly as possible may be challenging to combine with the rules of running and sleeping time for the timely implementation of breaks. I am therefore pleased that the European Commission, on the basis of the fact that the Ministry of Transport addressed this matter to the Commission, has announced a review of the relationship between the underlying EU/EEA rules on animal transport and the EU/EEA rules on running and sleeping time. The aim of this review is to better align these rules with each other. When it comes to the transport of horses in particular, such transports are to a relatively large extent all the exceptions to the rules on driving and sleeping time. Non-commercial carriage of horses with a maximum permissible mass of up to 7,5 tonnes and the transport of own horses within a radius of 100 km is exempted from the rules on running and sleeping time. Norway has thus benefited from the space provided by the EU/EEA legislation to grant exemptions from the rules on driving and sleeping time for the transport of live horses. Finally, let me refer to answers dated 6 May and 1 July 2009 from the then Minister for Transport Navarsete. There are answers given to written questions from representative Hoksrud about this topic, which are more detailed than this answer can be, within the minutes available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e884	I fully agree with the Council of State that road safety is important. But I think it's a big paradox that it's only those who are professional, and who transport horses from stable to tram and back again, who don't have exceptions to the driving and rest schedules, so you think it's okay that as long as you don't do it professionally, you can drive as much as you can from one place to another without having to take into account the same rules as those that are professional. This might mean that you think it's okay to take horses with you as a friend service, and in that way you don't get to do it in a professional and proper way. I think it's one of the challenges when you have a regulation that makes the transport of exactly these animals, which are then transported by professional carriers, not exempt from driving and rest periods. So if you're going to slaughter an animal, you're exempt from driving and rest periods. This means, clearly, that the last journey is important, it should be exempted from driving and rest periods, but the transport of live animals that are still to live – and hopefully be good – is not exempted from driving and rest periods.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e891	It is the right of the representative Hoksrud to say: the transport of live animals — insofar as also horses — from garden to slaughter is regulated by another exceptional shelter in the EEA Regulation. It applies only to slaughtered animals and cannot be used for the transport of horses in any other context. Let me say that I thought the representative of Hoksrud should at least be satisfied that the Ministry of Transport has taken this matter up with the Commission. It's a review, and Norway has taken advantage of the space for action that may be available for exceptions. And that's enough, until Hoksrud here points out, that in addition to animal welfare and animal safety, there's something called competition, which probably makes itself more active in professional horse sports.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e900	I am pleased that the Council of State has addressed the problem, and that we are still working on the problem. But I had hoped that today you could say that you should make sure you find a solution, because it's a little special that a few carriers, who are actually trying to live off this and do business, are the only ones who don't have an exception, unlike anyone else who just chooses to do this as a friend service or if you get paid by others. Then it's obviously okay. But you can't get it as a professional because you can't have a concession. I want to challenge the Council of State anyway and ask that she respond to whether she will once again look at the possibility of making changes, so that also animals that are still living are entitled to a life as good and worthy as the animals that you are going to drive straight to the slaughterhouse, which is obviously going on the last trip. These animals shall continue to live and shall continue to compete. Then you should also be able to have good animal welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e907	Let me first refer to an EEA agreement that has subsequently been reasonably comprehensive, which takes place in different areas, and which also takes effect in this area in relation to the competition which one here can demonstrate. I also want to show you that there is a review. It's a space of action that's been exploited, and it's black repulsive on this issue as late as July. When this review is carried out in the EU, I will of course be vigilant in what way we can follow up on this matter. I'm busy at any time that we're going to have clean legislation, but we also need to have common sense where we can make it longer than today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e918	I am delighted to ask the Minister for Transport the following questions: ‘In the National Transport Plan, the Government promised to use NOK 3,47 billion over 10 years for the universal design of railway stations. We know that the need is great, and we have a long way to go before the transport system is organized for everyone. The 2010 budget is set at only 30 million. NOK to this, while NOK 347 million. kr would be in line with the Government’s own promise. What will the Council of State do to ensure that work on universally designed train stations does not stop?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e927	I am particularly concerned that the railway should be seen as an accessible, safe and environmentally friendly transport option to and from work, school and leisure activities. The National Transport Plan 2010–2019, as the representative Hareide points out, saw SEK 3.47 billion for investments in railway infrastructure within the programme area of stations and hubs. The programme area includes: ‘measures to improve public-oriented facilities at stations and hubs with a focus on safety, information, universal design and accessibility for all’.» In addition to investments under the programme area of stations and hubs, investment funds shall also be used for stations included in major infrastructure projects. In 2010, the government proposes to set aside $278 million. kr to the programme area of stations and hubs, as presented by the Ministry of Transport for 2010. This proposition does not specify that 30 million should be used. kr to work on the universal design of railway stations, as the representative of Hareide uses in his question. Within the scope of proposed licensing in the application area of stations and hubs, the Railway Agency will be able to determine how much use can be made for the universal design of stations. In addition, the railway undertaking is authorised to dispose of funds within heading 30 Investments, if it would be possible to use more means of universal design. The availability of universal design plans at the individual station will be a factor which will have to be taken into account in the question of how much can be used for this type of action in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e940	I would like to thank you for the good answer. I feel that the Council of State here is clear that this is an area that she wants to prioritise, and I also understand that here is the possibility – as is said in the answer – of repriorities, so that this theme is raised. Then I want to show that there are great ambitions in this area right now, and it's very important that we get to lift it up. I also want to refer to an example from what I want to call new stations, like Lysaker Station. There we see, for example. Because of the poor contrasts, people who are weak experience that they are unable to buy tickets – one in some ways depends on getting help. We have now had a few years as there have not been strong enough stakes on this. So I want to challenge the Council of State in what it also says in the answer: Will it say that this area – universal design – will be lifted in the next few years?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e947	I can confirm on Hareide's question that here are great ambitions for the coming years, and the amount – 3.47 billion dollars for the first ten years – says something about it. So the answer is yes. I'm also of the opinion that it's not always going to be that much more, if one is only remarkable in the planning and design of a station. Contrast colors and the use of light are just examples of not the heavy costs, if one is carried. It is also the case that the work for the next year will take place: there are several stations to be rebuilt, and there will be extension and adaptation of platforms and measures for better public information, which will also benefit disabled people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e954	I want to thank you again for the answer, which I feel is more offensive than the last few years have shown us what we have done in this area. What I want to challenge the Council of State is: we know that today we have an infrastructure that makes this demanding. This is not only true of Norway, it is true of most countries. But what I think is important, not least when we're now entering and taking new steps, is that universal impunity is in a way like a foundation for the work that's going on. I thought it was extra bad to see that we were still creating new things without universal design being drawn into the work. I also want to challenge the Council of State on how it works when it applies, for example. competence in this area, within its sector, because it is not always a bad will but a lack of consciousness.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e961	Let me just say first that in 2010 the permissions will include: be used for the continuation of planning and for the start of conversion of, inter alia: Voss and Holmlia stations. So it's suggested approx. One hundred million. to extend and adapt platforms and measures for better public information, which in itself will tell that work has stopped in 2010 far from it. So I want to have a good – we say – strengthened dialogue with the Railway Agency, just to see the search light on where it has now failed. It must not be a competence, especially in the light of the fact that we have received a new law from 1 January 2009. We are also going to set up a new building part of the Planning and Building Act in 2010. That means that we need to put the necessary skills in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e971	My question is: ‘There has been a lot of discussion about the possible closure of Aker Hospital. One of the issues has been how Aarhus is going to deal with the patients from Groruddalen while the hospital has already had a lot of problems with overfilled departments and corridors before the planned transfer. Can the Council of State guarantee that any transfer of patients in the Groruddalen from Aker to Ahus is correctly dimensioned so that the hospital is able to accept the growth of patients?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e980	Let me first underline that no closure of Aker Hospital has been adopted. There is currently a major work in progress on the organisation and development of the ‘Sickness area Oslo’. Oslo University Hospital has established a local hospital project that has discussed the current and future needs for local hospital services in the capital. The project team is united behind a recommendation that Oslo University Hospital should pool local functions in a new metropolitan hospital with emergency services in surgery, medicine, drug treatment and psychiatry. The project team has concluded that the area of Ullevål is considered to be the most appropriate. The report of recommendations has been presented to the Board of Directors at Oslo University Hospital. It will be included as a supporting document in the work on spatial and capacity adjustment at the hospital. The matter is to be dealt with on a planned basis at the Governing Board meeting on 17 December, and is therefore still in the process. Health South-East RHF decided in November 2008 that the responsibility for services to the population of the city of Alna in Oslo and Follo in Akershus is to be transferred from Oslo hospital area to Akershus hospital area from 2011. Oslo University Hospital and Akershus University Hospital HF work together to find solutions that ensure optimal use of capital resources. New Aarhus has not been completed. From 2011, the capacity will be significantly increased when the last bed float with 112 beds and a new patient hotel with 73 beds is in place. The planning work will assess whether the activity and bed capacity of the hospital should be further expanded. This means a significant increase in somatic beds at Aarhus before the transfer of the recording area takes place. Health South-East stresses that risk and vulnerability analyses should also be carried out. The plans will be corrected if it appears that capacity challenges may arise in connection with the transfer. Akershus university hospital moved as known to a new hospital facility in 2008 with new digital infrastructure and new medical-technical equipment. In 2009, the hospital has faced major challenges in terms of relocation. This has led to economic challenges in 2009. Patient treatment has not been carried out as efficiently as planned, so that waiting lists and lying times have increased and to some extent also the number of corticosteroids. I have assured myself that Health Southeast is following developments closely, and more efforts have been made to meet the challenges. The government will have a health service at the forefront, both medically and technologically. We are concerned that everyone should have an equivalent offer of healthcare regardless of diagnosis, residence, personal economy, gender, ethnic background or individual life. Ahus is one of our most modern hospitals. It is desirable that as many patients as possible should be able to make use of this offer. It is obvious that patient treatment should be sound and of good quality. It would not be right to compare today’s challenges at the hospital with the changes that will take place only in 2011 after the hospital has been expanded.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e999	I thank you for your answer. My concern is not about the buildings on Aker. The left nostalgia is not attached to the building mass itself on Aker. The left's concern is the population of the Groruddalen. The people's campaign that has begun now, I think, first of all, is based on a commitment to be sure that you have a good health offer, and not on the building mass itself on Aker. So my question to the Council of State is whether the population of Groruddalen can be sure that they will not be transferred to a hospital that is not able to receive them at that time, and whether the Council of State can assure the population of Groruddalen that they will not be transferred to a hospital that is unable to meet the challenges they bring to the square.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1008	Today's Ahus area includes the municipalities of Romerike, 13 municipalities, Rømskog and Enebakk and the districts of Stovner and Grorud in Oslo. They are included as far as I understand, in today's recording area. Those who are now talking about moving over after the decision taken in 2008 are Alna City and Follo municipalities. But it is quite clear that no transfers will be made until this hospital works as it should, and before it is fully developed, and the technical solutions at the hospital also work as they should.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1013	I want to go a little deeper here. The urban population has some challenges that are different from those of other parts of the population. One of the challenges is that we have a more multiculturally complex patient mass. The metropolitan project briefed us that they are working on their own project to build up the competence of Ahus in that area. Something else that is an important part of Oslo’s special challenges is about drug problems. The problem of noise in Oslo is special. Dealing with drug problems as a health problem means you have to see the whole human being. You must have complete offers. With all due respect, Ahus’ main focus is not that type of problem and that type of drug problem. My question is whether the Council of State will be sure that the big-city problem, especially the drug addiction, enters such a new ahus, which will be responsible for a good part of Oslo's population?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1020	As I said, in the work that has been done up until now, it has been recommended that the metropolitan functions should go to the Ullevål area, and that it was the right location. Then I clearly see very well the major challenges that are in Oslo. It will also have to be addressed when the interaction reform now under consideration in Stortinget has been completed. I fully agree that the special challenges associated with drugs and psychiatry must be addressed. There won't be any changes until these things are properly cared for. As I also said in my post, there will be many analyses, including vulnerability analyses, of how the future structure should be.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1030	My question goes to the Minister for Oil and Energy: ‘Central Red-Green Politicians have expressed themselves very critical of Statoil. Socialist Left Party Inga Marte Thorkildsen stated on NRK News 18 that «Statoil is running a massive lobby campaign based on very dubious figures and facts, in order to push oil drilling in some of our most vulnerable and valuable natural areas [[...]] Do these statements reflect the political line of the Government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1039	It's my view and the whole of Regeninga's view that freedom of expression is one of the most important values in our society. It is therefore that Statoil, like all other companies, organisations and individuals in Norway, is in their democratic right to comment on the issues they want. It follows, of course, that politicians and others on their side can express views that are not consistent with Statoils, or may consider Statoil to be paying too much attention to some issues. It's a quality sign of an open democratic society. I have stated on various occasions – also in the context of the specific matter referred to here – that it is my view of this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1048	I thank the Council of State for the answer and will ask an additional question: On the basis of the strong doubts expressed by the representative of Thorkildsen about the figures and facts of Statoil regarding the oil deposits in Lofoten and the West Pole, I would like to ask the Council of State whether the Government has any information on the size of the oil and gas deposits in these areas other than that of Statoil today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1055	I don't have a complete overview of the estimates, numbers and data that Statoil has on it, so I can't answer the extent to which there are different information and different facts that are held in different places. What is the situation related to these areas for my part of the government is that so far, what kind of complete overview you have is limited. We've now been through some seasons of seismics collection, which will provide a better basis for understanding the resource base in these areas.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1060	I think that the statements that Thorkildsen's representative came up with, hurt a little doubt about Statoil at all. I think it seems a little unfortunate that you get such statements, so my question to the Council of State is: will the Council of State do something to ensure that the Government's view of Statoil is presented in a more uniform and predictable way than by such statements that have come specifically from Thorkildsen, and which I referred to in my first question?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1065	Now the representative here refers to a member of the Stortinget who has spoken. I believe that in my first answer I gave a clear indication of what is the Government's view of this. It's a vision that I've also expressed in the public space, and a vision that I'm still going to have. I therefore believe that the government's view on this issue is clear.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1073	I allow myself to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy the following questions: ‘The supply situation of electricity in Central Norway has been strained in recent years, including: has led to the region being its own electricity price range. Rauma Energi has plans for upgrading Verma power plants in More and Romesdal that can increase the production of renewable energy in the region. Moving the input of the power station to Storhaugen could increase annual power generation from 70 to 150 GWh. Will the Council of State contribute to the realisation of Rauma Energia's plans for the upgrading of Verma power plants?»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1082	Verma power plants with regulation are located in Vermedalen in a lateral watercourse to Rauma, which was protected by the Stortinget in 1993 in Verneplan IV for watercourses. Rauma Energi AS applied in 2006 for the concession for new Verma power plants with Storhaugen as a new input magazine with the move of input. The size laid down in 1993 the limits to be allowed by upgrading and extension of existing power plants in sheltered watercourses. At that time, the size joined the government’s proposal in the proposal for Protection Plan IV, which provided that upgrading and expansion should not be extensive measures. In addition to clean upgrades, there was limited uplifting of the surface and lowering of the submerged water. The NVE found that the movement of the inlet pond was not within this frame. NVE rejected the request for the requested option for that reason. In my view, the NVE’s refusal is in line with the Storting decision, i.e. related to the protection plan work. It is therefore not possible to authorise the transfer of the intake to Storhaugen with the current protective provisions. Rauma Energi AS sent a new concession application in June 2008. The alternatives for which Rauma Energi AS has now applied for a concession are not, in the opinion of the NVE, contrary to the protection provisions of the watercourse. The application is for treatment in NVE. The main option will provide an annual increase of 50 GWh. I will take a position on that application as soon as the NVE's suspension is available.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1095	I thank you for the answer, which unfortunately merges into the range of many similar – I would say – non-disputing answers from the Government to questions relating to the power situation in Central Norway. Rauma Energie, who wants to move the intake to the Storhaugen and upgrade the plant in order to provide over a doubling of the current production of pure energy, claims that a move will in addition bring an environmental benefit, by allowing the water to flow freely into the foot at times of the year when it is now dried up. Does the Council see that upgrading Verma power plants, and possibly other similar power plants that may come, could contribute to increasing the production of renewable energy in the region and, in turn, to avoiding the use of mobile, highly polluting gas power plants that are currently the only option in a possible crisis situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1104	It is obvious that any new project in the region will contribute to a better balance of power – it has been raised beyond doubt. Nor is there any discussion that, as a result of large-scale industrial projects, something has been brought back in time in Central Norway, a situation that we are not comfortable with in 2009. Fortunately, the link to Sweden, Nea-Järpströmmen, has improved. It is so in better condition and has better capacity than before. I also have a lot of time on the process associated with the Ørskog-Fardal line, which will contribute in the same way. When the representative used the term ‘definitive answers’ in connection with this question, I allow myself to be somewhat surprised at the use of words. I believe that the Storting should be concerned that decisions taken in Stortinget are being followed up. The stork has made a protective plan. If the Government and I are to take decisions of a different nature than those that lie there, there is a need for a new decision attached to the protection plan in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1113	On Tuesday 13 October, Åndalsnes Avis wrote the following: ‘Before the elections, elected pottery politician Tove-Lise Torve now said that Ap in the county will work for Verma Development following the Storhaugen option.’ Representatives Svein Glüsth and Else-May Botten also promised to contact the Centre Party Jenny Klinge, who promised to work against the Ministry of Oil and Energy and the Ministry of Environment in order to contribute to a joint meeting and a common solution. Since then it has been quite silent about the matter from that edge. Renewal of Verma power plants is, as I said, environmentally friendly – it gives more water in the foot and doubles today's production of pure energy. I would like to challenge the Council of State once again: can and will the Council of State contribute to the fulfilment of the important election commitments of the Red-Green representatives on Mørbeneken, who also have my full support in the promises they have made in this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1125	I am a little surprised by the representative's follow-up questions, which, as far as I can hear, do not mention the basis for this matter, that is, the Storting's own decision. I would have understood if the representative had criticized me and the government for trying out or ignoring decisions taken in Stortinget. What I'm referring to in my answer is that the assessments that have been made about this are that the decision that is being requested here would be contrary to the decisions taken in the Stortinget. It can't be in the interest of Storting to want someone to ignore decisions that have been made in the past in this room.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1133	I have the following questions for the Minister of Oil and Energy: ‘The new power cable from Lofoten to the municipalities of Værøy and Røst is estimated at 160 million. kr. The local energy company does not have the power to undertake the task of installing a new cable, even though the state promises to set up 33 million. SEK for cable financing. Lack of stable power supplies is a major obstacle to the development of the two highly active fishing communities. What action will the Council of State take so that a new power cable can be put in place soon?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1142	Network companies have an obligation to connect and are responsible for ensuring sufficient supply quality of electricity to customers in their areas. The NVE regulates the network companies through income frameworks as they are in a monopolistic situation. Within the framework of the Energy Act, it is for companies to exercise this responsibility. Natural conditions can make the establishment of new and strengthening existing transfer connections expensive. Network enhancements are usually financed in two ways – either by the network company by increasing network leases to all network customers in the area or by the installation contributions of network customers that cause the increased transmission need. Where appropriate, there may be a combination of these funding methods. I would like to remind you that solutions have been discussed for a long time between Lofotkraft, Nordland County Municipality and the relevant municipalities to secure the power supply to Værøy and Røst. The situation has been unsolved by several governments, including Bondevik II. The situation on Værøy and Røst is challenging. That's why the government went to the extraordinary step of granting direct support to help realize a new sea cable. However, Lofotkraft AS has a binding obligation and responsibility for the quality of supply in the area. Secure and adequate power supply is important for economic development and to ensure settlement on these islands. Lofotkraft and local communities have knowledge of the situation in the area and know future needs. Based on the responsibility assigned to the company and its local knowledge, Lofotkraft seas have to decide how this is to be resolved. Whether Lofotkraft has to calculate the installation contribution of the cable to Værøy and Røst depends on whether there are individual customers that are uniquely triggering the investment and whether Lofotkraft is using construction contributions in its area. The government and county appropriations are deducted from the investment cost for which a proportionate installation contribution may be required. It is also necessary to assess whether the investment can instead be defended covered by the network tariff and in the interests of security of supply and consumer development. We have our own State aid scheme for the balancing of network rentals for the network companies with the highest costs, of a total of 60 million. kr. Lovot power has relatively low tariffs initially and has not been eligible for any of the years in which the balancing mechanism has existed. However, if the Lofotkraft tariff changes were to be very large, the balancing mechanism would capture this and contribute to a smaller increase than would otherwise have been for the customers in the area. I hope there will be a solution to the situation on Værøy and Røst. Among other things, I have taken action, as the representative asks. But at the same time, I stress that further appropriations are not available from the Government. It is now up to Lofotkraft to assess the need and whether the exceptional allocation from the State in the budget of the year is to be used.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1161	I think this was a very disappointing answer, in that you choose to compare municipalities like Værøy and Røst with any other municipality, despite the fact that these are municipalities that are in an extraordinary situation. The pelagic company Lofoten Viking can run with maybe 50-60 pst. capacity and has large plans to expand and accommodate dozens of new employees. No new houses can be built, people who, for example, need to build dwellings, etc., have to stop this, because there is no capacity. Then you say you've done what you're supposed to do, and then you take an inner swing by blaming the Bondevik II government, which saw the light of day eight to nine years ago. I'd rather have looked forward. Does this mean that the last words from today's oil and energy minister in this matter have been said?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1170	First of all, what the representative Kristiansen here says is that these municipalities are treated as any other municipality, wrong. That's exactly what they're not going to be. We've gone in with support for training in an earlier phase, and we've put on the table over 30 million. kr to this area to contribute to network development. But the starting point is that all other municipalities cover this through the tools I outlined, i.e. plant contributions and any increase in the network tariff, as well as the state's inbound regulation of those with the highest network rental. So the premise for the question, the starting point for what Kristiansen says, is wrong. We've wanted to contribute, we've put money on the table – in a way that's not usual, in a way different from the previous government did – which is a desire to contribute to development in the area, precisely because this is a special situation, precisely because we see that there are single companies that are in a difficult situation with regard to the power supply as it is today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1177	Once again: I think the council must stop talking about what the previous government, which went off almost five years ago, did not. And there's no mistake in my premiss for the question. When you compare it with Training, I would say that it is affordable to go in and solve the similar problem of Training. But that's where you scaled to take 60 pst. of the cost. In this case, you're down to one-fifth. When the situation is that Lofotkraft says that this they don't have the opportunity to do, the Council of State will wash their hands and say that there will be another waiter who will take care of this table. I do not think that is offensive enough to the very acute and difficult situation in which these two typical fisheries communities are. Therefore, I just have to ask again: Is the Council of State willing to look ahead and take a new initiative – preferably due to the need for a spice layer – in cooperation with the municipality of Nordland in order to resolve the acute situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1186	I'm surprised when the representative, Kristiansen, stands here and gives the impression that it's right-wing policy to run web-sampling – to use subsidies to run district policies in Norway. There's never been a Right Policy. The representative of Kristiansen here's demand, is red-green policy, of which he wants more. We have actually delivered in this area in a way that has not been delivered before, which is a contribution to network development in these areas. And as I said in my answer, it is a contribution that is now made by the state, an offer to these municipalities that are not given to any municipality – to use the representative Kristiansjargong. As is now the case locally, as to whether a person wants to use this money to drive network development in the area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1196	From the representative Svein Harberg to the Minister for Research and Higher Education: «The Government has in St.meld. No 44 for 2008-2009 Education Line fully documented a rapidly increasing need for higher education places. This is underlined by growing youth unemployment as an alternative to education, increased demands for skills and, in addition, a reality that more often gives rise to unemployment. The Council of State has stated that the Department and political leadership are well prepared for growth. What overall plan does the Council of State have in order to increase the number of places of study and to ensure young people’s education rather than unemployment?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1207	From the representative Henning Warloe to the Minister for Research and Higher Education: ‘A new building is planned for the Bergen College in Kronstad to replace the five different places where the College operates today. The building will be completed in 2014 and provide space for 4,400 students and 500 employees, but already today the university has almost 50 pst. more employees and students than this. At the same time, the Government announces that the number of students in Norway will increase sharply over the next few years. Does the Council have a plan for how the Bergen College can be secured more space for more students at Kronstad when the new building is completed?»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1215	These questions are postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1221	‘On Monday 9 November 2009, the nation has a notice that the environmental threat of increasing nitrogen and phosphorus emissions can be significantly reduced if agriculture uses human urine as fertilisers in the future. Each adult produces 400–500 litres of urine per adult. years. There's enough fertilizer to produce 200 kilos of wheat, which in turn gives 350 bread. Thomas Cottis, Senior Lecturer at the Hedmark High School, states: ‘The Norwegian people’s Urin is enough to fertilise the entire Norwegian grain area every year.’ What does the Council of State think of this proposal?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1228	I have to admit that in the last few days I've been thinking about the background of this question. I can see from today's edition of the Evening Post that the representative has elaborated the background to his question, and I understand from the newspaper that the representative may feel the need for a follow-up question as to whether it might be right to use funds for research on the topic in question. When the representative Treldal also believes it is necessary to have the issue raised by the spokesperson of Stortingen, my first reaction is that this issue should have been addressed to the Minister for the Protection of the Environment. Of course, there are issues relating to sewerage systems and infrastructure, and not least the costs related to what primarily causes the proposal in question to be, in all likelihood, entirely disproportionately costly as an environmental measure on a large scale. As far as agriculture is concerned, we have to a large extent the technology needed to handle a completely natural waste product such as human urine. The technology used for manure is entirely transferable and the methods ensure that nutrients are not lost and do not create a high risk of contamination. The important political message here is that in many cases agriculture is the key to a more sustainable society, where most nutrients can be recycled. And the representative, Treldal, cannot have understood the agricultural cycle when he believes that waste products such as sterile urine cannot be used as fertilisers to produce clean and beautiful agricultural products. If the representative's possible follow-up questions are about research, my answer is that we have and should have academic freedom in Norway. It is also important that there is a high ceiling for researchers to address issues for discussion, although some ideas and suggestions that come may seem less realistic today, and based on an overall assessment. There's no need to wash down ideas that can prove to be brilliant solutions in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1241	The President is pleased that the Council of State is focusing on a political message in its reply.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1244	The reason for my question is, of course, political. The same article reads: ‘Cottis believes that the Ministry of the Environment and the Ministry of Agriculture should jointly launch 2-3 full-scale pilot projects for the collection of human urine [[...]] to get this going. Then is my question to the Minister: Will the Minister support the use of taxpayers' money to launch several full-scale trial projects for the collection of human urine and the use of urine as fertilisers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1254	According to the information I have received, the research associated with the University of Hedmark is simple experiments carried out around the millennium. That research was funded through the basic allocation and was linked to Cotti's position as a senior lecturer, among others. in relation to a main task. Research resources are allocated to such positions. Cottis estimates the amount to be half a year's work. In other words, it has not been very extensive. I have to stress that I do not feel the need to contribute further to this type of research; it may get other departments to take care of.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1259	I am somewhat confident that the minister has not intended to spend money on this, but what has come out of the projects that have been going on is that they want to get the funds to do this full scale. My question to the Minister will then be: does the Minister therefore agree with me that this is not the socio-economic right to do?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1264	From the Ministry of Agriculture and Food, we have not taken a position on this matter, and I feel that the Progress Party at the representative of Tjældal here is looking around with a slightly erroneous negative approach to the matter. I would like to say that the «shitting in my own nest» is undoubtedly always a problem, but the «me in my own bed» can be a brilliant solution, to comment on the problem. Most of us do have an old aunt who has emptied a pot in the tulip bed with flowering results. In addition to that, I would like to say that this is not a problem which we in the Ministry of Agriculture and Food have taken a stand on, and which we do not give priority to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1272	‘The regulation stock is currently administered by Nortura. Will the Council of State ensure that the regulatory stock is made more accessible by putting it online — real time — at a price so that the entire Norwegian meat industry is given an opportunity to buy what needs to be in stock?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1279	In accordance with the decisions of the agricultural operations, which have been dealt with by the Stortinget, market regulation liability for meat has been added to Nortura. It is important that market regulation is entrusted to a major player in the first-hand sales of meat. As a major player, Nortura has the ability to produce forecasts and continuously give price signals to the market, so that we have a necessary contribution to adapt between supply and consumption. In the new policy platform, the government has argued that the role of cooperatives as market regulators and buyers of Norwegian raw materials from all over the country should be ensured. We emphasise that the market regulation system should operate neutrally between the cooperative and other market actors. The Ministry has therefore laid down a regulation for the Administration of the Council of Turnover relating to the market regulation of agricultural raw materials, which lays down requirements for market regulation on reception obligations, universal service and information obligations, not least. Furthermore, it is important that there are market actors other than the commercial and processing cooperative in order to achieve competition and the possibility of correctiveness at that stage in the supply chain. Market regulators are required to implement their information obligations so that all market players have equal access to information on the activities of market regulators by virtue of their regulatory responsibilities. The Management Board has laid down detailed rules on how this should be followed up by market regulators. In the case of prices for goods on regulated warehouses, changes are made only on Mondays. When changes are to be made, all market players in the meat industry are notified of this on Thursday before the change is implemented. Nortura sends out information per month. e-mail and simultaneously publish the same information on their websites, which are open to all interested parties. I can also inform you that every Monday Nortura sends out an e-mail on the amount of slaughter on the control warehouse and changes in the quantity of the control warehouse last week. Information that goes out per. e-mail is sent to the National Federation of Meat and Poultry Industries, which then of course forwards the data to its members. As far as I am aware, the Council of Commerce and the State Agriculture Administration, which is the Secretariat of the Council, has not received any signals indicating that there is a need to change these procedures that respect both the information obligation and competition in the market. When the legislation on information flows in the meat sector was being consulted in the sector during the harvest, there was no requirement to amend the current system. On the basis of this, I would conclude that the information provided on the price of raw material in the meat regulation warehouse would be satisfactory.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1292	The minister says he has not received any feedback on a change in the procedures. With all due respect, he can't have listened much to the industry himself – they're not at the same wavelength. That is why I want to clarify my question with the following new questions: The regulation on market regulation for meat and eggs points out that price should be the main instrument for regulating the balance of the market. Can the Minister of Agriculture elaborate on how actively he believes that the instrument should be used, for example: by indicating how much percentage of deviation from the target price is natural before other regulatory measures are initiated?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1297	I just want to stress that in all the consultation rounds we have had, in all the information flows that have been on this scheme, it has not been found that the Turnover Council and the State Agriculture Administration have received signals that it is necessary to change those procedures. The law on information flows in the meat sector has been at the hearing in the autumn, as I said in my previous post. Nor did this consultation reveal any requirement for changes to the system. On this basis, it is for this reason that I say that we do not feel that there are any problems with the use of the instrument called regulation bearings. I would like to stress that this system contributes to rational and cost-effective storage, and that all slaughter is traded from a regulatory warehouse. There has been no disagreement in the meat industry as to the manner in which the withdrawal from slaughter from the regulatory warehouses is to be carried out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1304	The council says there has been no disagreement about it. I've visited the meat industry myself. There's a completely different opinion, so the council should perhaps talk to them about it. I want to follow up with a question, which goes straight to what the council says. In the summer, a new organisation organisation for beef and veal, volume-based, was set up, in which the Nortura cooperative organisation is given a much greater responsibility to determine the price desired in the market. In these days, the regulation stock for beef is almost filled to the maximum level of 2500 tonnes, without any adjustment during the harvest. Does the Minister for Agriculture think this is a convenient way to deal with regulatory responsibilities? And does the minister think that it works as he pleases?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1311	I would like to stress that I am very pleased that Stortinget has adopted a new market organisation that Nortura is currently managing as market regulator. There is a system that I understood the Progress Party did not agree with, but the rest of the Stortinge had a great sense of it and agreed. The size of the regulatory stock is likely to be related to the economic situation in the industry, and it is then up to market regulators to determine whether price should be used as an instrument to a greater extent. That is the responsibility of Nortura, and of course the Council of State should not interfere.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1319	I allow myself to ask the following questions to the Minister of Renewal and Church: ‘An agreement on the distinction between the State and the Church has been concluded. The agreement implies a broad agreement that the membership of the Norwegian Church should be respected. It is to be facilitated that the Church continues to perform its millennial role as a church of the people. The Norwegian Church shall have permanent services so that the service is provided in all communities. Reductions in church activity and the cancellation of Sunday speeches are reported steadily. Is the Council of State comfortable with the development of the Norwegian Church?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1328	It is an overall objective of church policy to facilitate the continuation and development of the Norwegian Church as an open and inclusive church. This is not only the government's policy, but, as the representative of Thorsen is involved, it is a political objective that is widely agreed in this Chamber. The church agreement, to which all the parties on the Stortinget have joined, bears witness, not least. The Church shall remain nationwide and present in all communities. The proposed changes to the State Church Scheme shall be implemented in a manner that meets the need for continuity. The membership of the Church members of the Norwegian Church shall be ensured. Last week, like many of the committee members, I was present at the Church Meeting in Tønsberg. I learned that the Church is characterized by high activity in very many areas. A church election with historically high participation and a cost framework of over 70 million has just been carried out. kr. Training reform is about to enter its seventh year. In the 2010 government budget, the Government has proposed to allocate SEK 170 million. kr for this reform. This means that well over half of the churches in the Church will be developing an extended offer of religious training for children and young people aged 0-18. Local authorities are reported to have more than doubled during the last four years in terms of rehabilitation and maintenance of church buildings. I think we can safely say that the Church has rarely had better conditions than it has today. That doesn't mean it's not a challenge. I assume that the representative of Thorsen has received some press releases from the autumn on reduced performance in some dioceses, and that this is the background to the question. On the one hand, there are reports that in some places in the country it is difficult to get enough applicants to perform, and on the other hand, some dioceses have had to implement some measures. First of all, I want to say that I am aware of the challenges that the Church is facing in recruiting the prestige profession to fill jobs in all parts of the country. In these days, a major research project carried out by the Kirkeforschung Foundation is being completed, with the intention of identifying the situation and assessing current measures that could improve the recruitment of the services. The Ministry will carefully evaluate the results of this study with a view to identifying measures that can be implemented in the shorter and longer term. In the revised State budget, the Government received a majority of 2 million in increased appropriations for the performance service. kr – an earmarked measure to strengthen recruitment in particularly difficult areas. As the representative may be familiar with, we have just presented an additional proposal for 2009, where we have allocated 4 million. kr extra for this year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1341	I am very pleased that we agree on the objective of the reform. I am also very happy that there is church activity, and I am very happy that the minister perceives what was the main point of the question. It was actually what goes on in the performance service, that you want to have an active, performing performance. When the Advance Party is in favour of a distinction between state and church, and that the Church should be present in all communities, we actually believe that. The Progress Party also takes seriously that we get feedback on empty temporary budgets and dismissals of priests in the Norwegian Church, and what this leads to. It is not only that there are too few applicants, but it is also an economic question, given that it is not even possible to put in vacant temporary workers to provide the service. The party of progress considers the pastor to be a very important part of the Church, and the pastor should be available to people who, for various reasons, need the services of the pastor. What role does the minister of the church think the priest should play in the church?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1352	Let me first say that I don't think it's just about the budgetary situation when we're going to recruit priests to the Norwegian Church. There has been a tight labour market, and I think those in the pastor's profession have also been affected by this labour market. I agree that the priests have an important position for us to have a good people's church. It's supposed to be there, close to people. It's the Church's most important action. At the same time, it must also be that the Church, like everyone else, has a responsibility to keep the budgetary frameworks given by the Stortinget. The grants for the achievement have increased in recent years, with the result that we have more than 100 more performances than we had ten years ago. Therefore, the Councils of Bishops, together with the Council of Bishops, need to assess the actions and positions needed in each Council of Bishops and in each prostitue.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1359	I thank you again for the answer, and would remind the Council of State that even though we have received more than 100 new performances, we have also had a work reform for the priests who want them to have almost equal working hours to what we have – let me not forget to mention it. When we take into account working time, we have not been given any increase in the number of performance positions. For the Progress Party, the intention is not to maintain maximum performance. There's no goal in itself. In fact, the most important thing is that the clergyman is there and is available to people in the parish – that, for example, burial is carried out within the time limit prescribed by the legislation. And then my last question is: Does the Minister of the Church have a good answer to how the daily needs of the priest's services can be solved within today's crew?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1366	As I said in my reply, I am aware that the individual dioceses have a challenging situation in filling up vacancies. The Church's budgets have increased. And it's important that those who rule make sure that you distribute temporary workers in a good way, and arrange the work within the Church so that, for example, tombs may be carried out within the time limits which are natural. But like all other parts of Norwegian society, the Church must also deal with the budgetary frameworks given. I am pleased that we have managed to increase the appropriations, and I am pleased that through the regrouping proposal we have managed to obtain additional appropriations, so that the situation in 2009 can be corrected somewhat. That means we don't have to go with such a deficit into 2010 as we would otherwise have done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-11-25.ana.ud1705e1434	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
