ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e47	A number of permit applications are available: from the representative of Trond Lode on leave from 27 April to 29 April and from the representatives of Jorod Asphjell, Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund, Bjørn Jacobsen, Øyvind Waksdal and Karin S. Woldseth on leave from 27 April to 30 April – all to take part in the 2009 session of the Council of Europe Parliamentary Assembly, Part II, in Strasbourg from the Group of the Progressive Alliance of Representatives of the Party of Presidents of Per Ove Wideth from 27 April to 29 April to take part in the meeting of the NATO Parliamentary Assembly in Paris from the representative Lars Sponheim on welfare leave from 27 April to 2 May to 2 May On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The following alternates shall be convened to meet during the term of leave: For the East-Agder counties: Kjell Ingolf RopstadFor the Hordaland counties: May Britt Vihovde and Georg IndrevikFor the More and Romesdal counties: Ingrid I. OpedalFor the Rogaland counties: Bente Thorsen and Magnhild EiaFor the Southern counties: Knut GravrökFor the Westfold counties: Jan Fredrik VogtIngrid I. Opedal, Bente Thorsen, Knut Gravrök and Jan Fredrik Vogt shall be elected to the Lagation for the time they meet for the representatives of Bjørn Jacobsen, Øyvind Waksdal, Jorod Asphjell and Per Ove Wideth respectively.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e127	May Britt Vihovde, Georg Indrevik, Ingrid I. Opedal, Bente Thorsen, Magnhild Eia, Knut Gravrök and Jan Fredrik Vogt are present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e133	The President will propose the election of three presidents for the Storting meeting today and for the rest of the current week – and consider it adopted. The President will propose Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Gunn Olsen and Svein Roald Hansen. Other proposals are not available, and Sigvald Oppebøen Hansen, Gunn Olsen and Svein Roald Hansen are considered unanimously elected presidents of this week's meetings in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e143	From the Prime Minister's office there is the following letter to Stortinget, dated 24 April 2009: ‘In the Council of State of the H.M. King held at Oslo Castle on 24 April 2009 at 2.30 p.m. 11.00 is determined: Secretary of State Raymond Johansen is dismissed from office as Secretary of State for Foreign Affairs Jonas Gahr Støre in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Political adviser Gry Larsen is appointed State Secretary for Foreign Minister Jonas Gahr Støre in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs.» The referenced letter shall be annexed to the minutes. It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e169	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e178	With this message, the Stortinget for the first time deals with a comprehensive survey on the internationalisation of the whole field of education. I would first like to thank the Committee for its good and constructive work on the communication. To a large extent, the Committee shares the view that internationalisation should cover all aspects of education, from primary to higher education, and that internationalisation should cover all pupils and students. It is a good thing that Norwegian students, students and employees can gain experience from outside. It is equally important that Norwegian educational institutions are open to international students and employees. The communication describes this in a good way and strengthens the role of internationalisation throughout the education cycle. Work quality is also underlined. Everyone wants Norwegian educational institutions to be characterised by quality. Internationalisation must also be based on quality. For primary schools, the Committee points to the importance of making even better use of existing mobility programmes than today. We also highlight the importance of better recognition procedures for foreign school years and the importance of good advisors with knowledge of exchange opportunities. We talk about the challenges of the international schools, and an overall committee asks the Government to review the system of financing the international schools. For specialised schools, the Committee stresses the need to improve the knowledge base. This can in turn lead to better internationalisation and increase the scope for inclusion in support schemes available to other students and students. Many higher education institutions are doing a great deal of internationalisation today. In today's evening post we can read that one of four doctoral students in Norway comes from outside. Good pay and high quality research are being developed as important reasons why foreign researchers want to go to Norway. The Committee believes that it is important that institutions set themselves clear objectives for internationalisation, including as regards the mobility of students and employees. Institutional cooperation is important. The most integrated form of cooperation is the development of common degrees. Here, both individuals and institutions have a high yield, and more such processes need to be stimulated. The Centre for the Internationalisation of Right-wing Education, SIU, can play an important role in internationalisation. A clarification of roles and tasks is needed here, and the Committee therefore requests that SIU be subject to an evaluation in line with that carried out by NOKUT. Norway accepts quota students from developing countries. This is a valuable arrangement. However, the situation of allowance students is not optimal and they experience problems with the payment of scholarships and loans. The Committee therefore calls on the Government to take action to remove these obstacles as soon as possible, preferably before the start of the study in 2009. A Joint Committee is also invited by the Government to extend current practice in the Loan Fund for the grant of support to students at the Founder’s School until the academic year 2009/2010, while at the same time assessing the appropriateness of current legislation. Norway has seen good international support and funding arrangements for students, including for foreign studies. The Committee has noted that the Ministry wishes to place greater emphasis on quality criteria in the design of the support schemes. In view of this, it is certainly right to say that the Committee shares this view. I assume that the other parties will explain their views both in this area and in the other areas where they have their own comments and suggestions, so from now on I am speaking more on behalf of the Workers' Party and the Government Parties than on behalf of the Committee. Quality is important. The logical consequence of our desire for high-quality Norwegian educational institutions is that we also focus on the quality of foreign institutions. A sample shall be drawn up to take account of the quality criteria to be used for the design of the aid schemes. Firstly, the majority assumes that the list of educational institutions qualifying for support is expected to increase significantly compared to the current supplementary list. Secondly, the majority calls for this sample to be given the opportunity to consider several options for the scholarship of students who choose high-quality foreign education. The selection shall assess different allocation models and criteria. We had a good message, which through consideration in the committee has been clarified on important points. For the Workers' Party, it has been important to find a solution for the quota students – we are putting pressure on that now. We extend the mandate to the selection to look at the quality criteria, we ask for a review of funding for international schools, we state that mobility is important, and we stress the importance of quality in internationalisation. Finally, a Joint Committee stresses the importance of improving and predictability of the recognition procedures for foreign years in secondary education and of ensuring up-to-date knowledge of the possibilities of exchanges of advisers. The opposition has a similar proposal, which I consider to be a repetition of what the committee is saying. This is important, and with the signals we send together, I would ask the opposition to consider turning this into a transmission proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e206	It is quite striking how this government has its own ability to raise expectations in the field of education, and then in the next round to disappoint both the voters, the business community, the education sector and the opposition. We should perhaps have understood the drawing when we got the famous rest cutting, and the most recent in this connection was the research message that came on Friday. It should also be part of the message we are handling here today. For a long time, the opposition has pointed out that the number of students studying abroad has fallen dramatically in recent years, and we have been constantly talking about an internationalisation announcement that would address the issues. When the message came, it was a great disappointment. There was a lot of words and little concrete action to improve the situation. There were several people here in the house who suggested that the message should be sent back to the government, but instead we decided to be constructive contributors, and made a number of recordings. We know from experience that it is not always as easy when we are faced with a majority constellation, but in this case I will take care to give honor to the case rapporteur and his assistant, who has been responsive to the opposition and made sure that our recordings have been well received, and even we have three important decisions in place here today. This concerns the evaluation of SIU, just as NOKUT in its time was evaluated, the conditions of the international schools, and loan fund support for students at the Founder’s School. To take the last one first: for the Progress Party, it has been important that the Founding School, which is a collaborative project between a number of universities and all our universities, should have the opportunity to continue sending out students so that they could study business culture, work and study at a foreign university as part of the teaching process. We believe — especially in these economic downturns — that it is important to train qualified academics to become future innovators and entrepreneurs in Norway. Therefore, it was important for us to ensure that the support from the Loan Fund for this foreign stay did not stop, as it was announced, but that it was continued. We believe that this is a good investment for AS Norway, and we are very pleased that we are now getting the aid scheme to continue, and that the department is looking at the appropriateness of the existing legislation. Another issue that was also not mentioned in the Storing Communication was the conditions of the international schools. The so-called IBO schools are essential both for students planning further studies abroad and for students who have attended similar schools abroad. If Norway is to be able to attract highly skilled international labour – whether in the industry or in the education sector – these schools will be essential in relation to the family of these workers. IBO schools face specific challenges in providing international teachers and quality assurance education. Such costs are to a small extent covered by today's system. In addition, in these schools we find the only foreign-language students in Norway who do not have the right to funded Norwegian education. We also see here that the Norwegian school classification is not consistent with the international classification. Students who go in the 11th year are still in middle school — or should we say high school — while here in Norway we say that they are in high school. This means that neither the county nor the municipality will accept financial responsibility for these students, and the result is that the international schools have to run money collection to finance education for 15- to 16-year-olds here in Norway. This is a situation in which we need to clean up as soon as possible, and we are pleased that the Government is now being commissioned to review today's arrangements in this area. Otherwise, we have got the government parties involved in a number of good remarks, and I expect the government to also look at the issue that is being raised, even if this is not supported in the majority proposal. One of the conditions is the student exchange in initial training. It is a major problem when students refuse to take a year abroad because they fear that they will have to take the school year again when they return to Norway. The opposition has put forward a proposal asking the Government to come back with proposals to ensure that the recognition procedures for foreign school years are made better and more predictable and that it is adequately ensured that advisers have up-to-date knowledge of exchange opportunities. We note that we will not have a majority in favour of this proposal here today, but we will ask the Government to look at this issue. It is, after all, during basic education that one can provide the basis for students to take all or part of their training abroad later in their education. A government that aims to ensure the quality of all world universities should be able to provide predictability for those who wish to take part in primary education abroad. In this case, the Progress Party is promoting a whole of 14 proposals, either alone or together with all the other opposition parties, which I will be able to address. In addition to what I have mentioned, the relationship to "freshman year" is taken up a number of times. I have noticed that the government will open up to this on what they call quality university. Although it may open up to some more foreign students, it does not last. During the hearing, ANSA called for a pilot scheme to be set up until 2011. Although the parties to the government are too accustomed to voting against what is today the proposal No. 11, we had hoped to support our pilot scheme outlined in proposal No. 13th@item: inlistbox If we want to increase student mobility both in and out of Norway, we need to facilitate the situation. At least the Progress Party will be a driver and a constructive contributor to achieve this. The free principle should also be better discussed, both in relation to how it inhibits internationalisation in basic education and, not least, whether we should use it as a competitive advantage in relation to what is happening within the GATS framework.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e229	The representative Jon Hunter Gåsvatn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e232	Norway is a small, open country at the welfare summit in the world. Our well-being is based on the gains of international trade, exchange, networks and a value creation developed on comparative advantage. Norway’s ability to succeed in the future will depend on our being able to develop and exploit new knowledge for value creation and jobs. Internationalisation of education is at the heart of the challenge. International knowledge mobility is increasing. For a small, open country with ambitions to be a leading knowledge nation, it is essential to have strategies and instruments that enable us to build relations and networks with the countries and environments that will become important to us in the future. All therefore met an overall review of the internationalisation challenges in Norwegian education both with excitement and anticipation. This is a complex challenge. It ranges from exchanges in primary schools to higher education and research for the Nordics and foreigners coming here. The voltage has been triggered, but the expectations have not been met. The cancellation notice has received a very cool reception of an overall opposition and relevant stakeholder organisations. The NHO believes that the whole notification is a disclaimer, the academics are disappointed with the lack of action, HSH believes that the notification is disappointingly vague and non-committal, the Norwegian Student Union and the National Association of Students believe that the notification is a solemn speech without action, the student organisation believes the notification is inconclusive and refers to it as a failure, and ANSA believes that the notification is exposed to concrete action. The government has spent a very long time on the message. It should have included several concrete measures. The words ‘assess actions’ and ‘assess further’ are written over fifty times in the notification and the Council of State refers to the notification as defensively as a ‘base for debate’. The government records that the number of Norwegian students leaving goes down, but there are no concrete measures to meet it with. The right and a much more overall opposition are presenting several proposals that could have helped to do so in a targeted and concrete way. One could hope that it is not yet too late to turn around for the Government. It would have been a step forward if the government realized that the free principle created challenges at primary level. Reports are many about the disappearance of valuable offers and initiatives. When the government doesn't have the ability to raise funding, you should have been brave enough to take a discussion about the challenges. You don't. When our proposals to extend the freedom of exchange to Vg1 and Vg3 and to ensure that the education received by the students is accepted in Norway, nor is it supported, there is little hope that several Norwegian young people will use the offer. Vocational education seems almost forgotten by the Government. We are waiting for the follow-up to the Karlsen Committee's investigation, but we had expected more about this important education in the message we are discussing today. New technologies and networks open up entirely new opportunities in higher education and research. Evolution is already in progress. Leading universities have already developed open access strategies that allow lectures and education to be followed around the world. The challenges and opportunities are not at all discussed in the communication. On the other hand, the focus is on quality. There are obvious challenges to quality. Foreign studies are expensive, and it is important that students get value for money. However, it should be equally clear that the Government’s proposal to develop quality lists will fail. How can we avoid this becoming more bureaucratic and more costly? International rankings are widely discussed in academia. How will Norway draw up its own quality lists of academic institutions around the world? We might as well sit on lists that are not up-to-date and not relevant, and that prevent Norwegian students from choosing new and emerging studies with ambitions and a high level of knowledge. Here one has to trust that the students and institutions also do a job. The Communication lists a number of countries that are key partners for Norway, now and in the future. The list includes many of the countries where the problem of support is also experienced in the first year, ‘freshman year’. When we also know that many of these countries are very large and one of the fastest growing economies in the world, it is a little incomprehensible that Norway should not show some liberalism and give support to ‘freshman year’. The lack of a targeted strategy for which countries it is important for us to cooperate with is evident. There are also challenges for foreign students and researchers who want to get here. The housing situation is under severe pressure in the big cities, and the allowances students meet their own, very special challenges. The government sees our proposals, they should do something to them. The Internationalisation Communication was wanted and expected. The voltage has been triggered, but the expectations have not been met. – I think we are so popular that we do not have suggestions that we stand alone about! That's why I don't have a suggestion to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e255	Then the representative Gunnar Gunnersen has not made a proposal!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e258	I would first like to thank the case rapporteur for a good job, which has led us to a good position that will lead to more internationalisation and better quality of education for students and students in domestic and foreign countries. We live in the time of opportunity. Never have humans had such economic and technological resources at their disposal as we have today. The climate crisis and the financial crisis have their roots in an economic system that has gained free play without much international control, a system that depends on ruthless growth in consumption and can destroy access to food, water and stable living conditions across large parts of the globe. International cooperation in education and research will be an important counterpoint to this. We live in the land of opportunity. The Norwegian welfare state is the fruit of more than a hundred years of fight for justice. The basis for our welfare state has been a public welfare system based on universal rights and equal opportunities. We have come a long way when university education has gone from being an elite education to a mass education. It gives us a great advantage when it comes to internationalisation and cross-border cooperation, that we have a basic education and higher education based on the free principle. All international cooperation on double and common degrees must be organised in such a way that there is no conflict with the free principle. The world needs more cooperation and capital management, and the solution to the climate crisis lies a great deal in the strengthening of global and international cooperation and interaction. That is why the message we are discussing today is crucial for the future. The notification is comprehensive and will promote internationalisation for both primary and tertiary education. Internationalisation of education is important for Norway as a knowledge nation to participate in global development. Students and students need to be equipped to meet the challenges of an increasingly internationalised working life. Increased internationalisation means better multicultural competence for pupils and students both at home and abroad and for educational institutions in Norway. Norwegian universities and universities need to be more attractive to foreign students and institutions, and Norwegian students need to be more motivated to choose high-quality foreign institutions. There will be a change in student funding for students abroad, so that in the future students will be motivated to study at high-quality institutions, because it provides better security for the benefit of students. There will also be a stronger focus on cooperation and agreements between Norwegian and foreign higher education institutions. It shall include, inter alia: details measures related to common degrees and more obligatory cooperation. Today's additional student list, which has not worked well enough at all, will be discontinued, and instead quality lists will be developed. These new lists will be significantly expanded compared to the additional grant list. In the case of training courses covered by the new lists, support will be given to the first year of the Bachelor's programmes, as in the current supplementary student lists. More scholarships shall be awarded to cover school money in high-quality institutions. It is important that the list is wide-ranging and underdeveloped in the various countries, languages, regions and trade unions. These lists will be an important tool and tool for the internationalisation of each institution, and it will also facilitate their work. We live in a multicultural Norway, and it is important to look at the opportunities offered by a multicultural Norway for the Norwegian education system. A multicultural society opens up opportunities and demands for internationalisation at home, which can extend the perspectives we have, and acquire new knowledge to meet the challenges of the future in Norwegian working and business life. Norway is a small country with a very internationally oriented economy. Students who acquire international experience and competence are essential to our success – whether we succeed in being the knowledge society we want. Many relevant mobility programmes and projects exist. There is a need for better information and skills — and information out — if we are to succeed in being the knowledge society we want. We have a number of international schools in Norway. They have additional costs in relation to international certification and control, and they also have costs associated with the recruitment of international teachers and additional Norwegian training. Today's funding system is not working well enough. It is important that the Council of State reviews this. SV is satisfied with the work of the Aasland State Council in relation to active work with universities and colleges in investing in further development talks and cooperation agreements with other countries and institutions. Institutions have achieved different objectives, but the work done by the Council of State has led to more work being done for and with internationalisation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e286	When the Government presented this message, the Council of State stated that it was an input to the debate. That was frankly, because she was absolutely right. This message is an input that accurately describes the situation around internationalisation, but it is quite poor on action. We got that further confirmed at the hearing here in Stortinget. At various hearings, there was almost consensus in expressing disappointment at the lack of action and obligations in the communication. For the Christian People's Party, it is a crucial task to contribute to the development of Norway as a knowledge nation at a high international level. This is not contrary to a desire to encourage students to take part in or complete their education outside Norway — on the contrary. Foreign residence means a lot to each student personally. The experience aspect must in no way be underestimated. It is exciting to experience other cultures, learn languages, connect and make friends and contacts for life. The impulses that a person receives at a study stay abroad will be unique. But foreign residence also has a direct gain in knowledge for our country. Of course, the professional dividends the students bring home will be great. Societies and working life are becoming increasingly internationalised, making cross-border cooperation a natural part of working life and society. Numbers from the Loan Box show that we have the lowest number of full-time students out in ten years. This is serious, especially when we know that the situation in the rest of the world is quite different. Here, the number of students taking education outside their own country is rising sharply. There may be several reasons for this decline, but I don't think one comes except that economics is a determining factor. Today, studying abroad is in many cases a major economic boost. The borrowing burden associated with school money is high and contributes enough to the fact that many people simply do not dare or have the finances to go out. Another element in this is that the borrowing burden becomes extra large for students at the bachelor level. It has consequences, precisely because Bachelor's training is the most important recruitment basis for further studies abroad. The longer you wait to stay abroad, the higher the threshold for doing so. In the last budgets, the Christian People's Party has been involved in study support in non-Western countries. This is not about the large amounts in budgetary terms, but it nevertheless has consequences. I agree that it is very important that more people study in the major and important countries, for example. USA, England, France and Germany. The problems with lack of support for the freshman year in the United States have been mentioned earlier. Several of these countries have the world’s leading educational institutions, while being one of our most important cooperation countries in both research and business. But it is also important that we get more students with study experience from the emerging new markets in countries in Asia, Latin America and also Africa. Countries from these continents are very important to get impulses from and to cooperate with. It must therefore be possible to find schemes which, on the one hand, ensure the decisive criterion that a study to be supported must be approved by NOKUT and, on the other hand, have measures to stimulate students to choose to study in these countries. Resources for the freshman year and studies in non-Western countries are a fast-paced approach, which is simple, which is cheap, which will have an effect and which will mean a great deal for internationalisation. I hope that the opposition parties will not stand alone on this proposal even after the revised national budget. The Christian People's Party, together with the Left Government, is asking for a proposal to strengthen the quota of students from developing countries. The system of quota students has proved to work very well. It provides the basis for extending the scheme through the provision of more allowances for students. Finally, the opposition has gathered to ask the Government to extend the Loan Fund support scheme to include Vg1 and Vg3 and to provide support to high-level students wishing to study only one semester out. Unfortunately, we have received feedback that there are doubts about what the legislation really says. Students who have travelled abroad for six months with notice from both the Loan Fund and secondary schools that they will receive support have gone out and not received support when they come home. I think it's unnatural to distinguish this field between higher education and higher education. One should be able to take out both the single semester and the whole year for this group. I address the proposal that the Christian People's Party has with the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e312	The representative of Dagrun Eriksen has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e315	The government is building on a stone in education policy. From St.meld. No 16 for 2006–2007,... and no one was left, via the quality message, Quality at school, to the new teacher’s message, the Government is adding the basis for the future knowledge school. And today, for the first time, we are dealing with a comprehensive communication on the internationalisation of education. That's good. The world has become smaller in the sense that, for example: Travel times have become shorter. Without going to other countries, I can mention a well-known story from my own municipality. Gausdal was already over 100 years ago an adorable destination for several different reasons, including: because it was so fast to get there. It took only 36 hours from Oslo and up – by train to Eidsvoll, then “skibladner” to Lillehammer and then finally horse-kiss the last four miles up to the ski fight in Gausdal. Yeah, time's up! Now a carpenter apprentice can travel to Bavaria for three months, and the Nigerian sociology student can take six months in Norway for example. to study the Nordic welfare model. The time we live in provides space and opportunities for impulses from all over the world. The strength of the staging message is that it collects some threads and draws up important perspectives on the road further. An international education sector will provide workers with international knowledge and experience and make Norway an attractive knowledge nation and partner. As such, internationalisation will promote future value creation. Solidarity, multicultural dialogue and interpersonal understanding are expressions under which the internationalisation of education will build up and fill with content. International cooperation in education and research, good arrangements for international students in Norway and the principle of education for all are one of the EU’s Millennium Goals and must be high on the agenda for the future. Internationalisation is not just an instrument; it is actually also an objective. There is as much a question of attitudes as of resources. It's not just an international department of an institution that's going to work internationally. However, the approach must be that internationalisation should be an integral part of the organisation as a whole. All, including those who do not leave, will receive education that will equip them for the challenges and opportunities of globalisation. It's an ambitious goal, but something else would be too passive in today's globalized world. In the field of education, I believe that close cooperation in the EU is a good thing, and I am pleased that Norway has joined several framework programmes. It is crucial if we are to achieve our goals of internationalisation. Another crucial factor is whether we have framework conditions that promote internationalisation. It is important for the Ministry to assess, in the context of the evaluation of the funding system for the UH sector, whether stronger instruments are needed to promote mobility. The notification also includes secondary schools, and it is important that county municipalities have schemes to ensure that high school leavers do not lose their chances of leaving. Authorisation procedures also need to be improved, and it is necessary to ensure that the consultants have up-to-date knowledge of exchange options. The message has a happy focus on vocational and vocational training. It is important to quickly establish a qualification framework in order to remove obstacles to the mobility of those taking this type of training. I want to give a good example of internationalisation from my own region, namely the Gjøvik International Service Office. They send out a growing number of apprentices each year from Hedmark and Uppland. Most apprentices are sent out via the Leonardo da Vinci programme, and the office takes care of the practicalities of their stay. They are in contact with potential apprentices abroad, assist with the application and provide motivated apprentices with quality apprenticeships. The strength of the training office is that they have closely followed the apprentices along the way and do their best to get the most out of their stay. Both before and during the stay, apprentices become good spokespersons so that even more apprentices are given the opportunity to take apprenticeship abroad. Internationalisation gives students, apprentices and students experiences that cannot be measured in money, and an increasingly valued competence. This message gives us an overall approach to internationalisation. We're already doing a lot of work on this field today, but we can work to make it even better. It's probably true in most areas with all of us.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e346	About this message is mostly said by those who have had the word before. My reflection is that the message now seems to be drawing a pattern, not by the Council of State – for I don't think so – but by the Government's lack of willingness to bet on different aspects of higher education than its research. We'll get back to later. If you don't get any money for anything, it may be – it's my experience from that field – that you make a big message. It is not safe to do so, but it happens that you make a big message. What we have in front of us now is a big message that describes the area we're facing. It does it in a proper and straightforward way, but was received with words, just when I have the word here on the Great Britain pulpit, which was much sharper, by most others. We heard that in the hearing, and that has been said earlier today. What worries me, as a representative of the Left, as a parliamentarian, yes as a Norwegian citizen, is that you can't see that, in fact, a small grip could signal something, could set a direction. It's often the case that if you're going anywhere, most of us will have the sense that you're going in one direction, even though the speed is something we can discuss. There is one area that has puzzled me for almost four years now, and that is why in all the world it is going to be so problematic to find the little half a million to send our bachelor students to the so-called BRIC countries – Brazil, Russia, India and China. We will soon celebrate the two-year anniversary of the then State Council of Djupedal's almost joyous announcement in the evening post in the summer of 2007, where it looked as if it were going to be in the state budget for 2008. It can't be a sort of fear that the Loan Box framework would be blown up – that there would be a mass emigration of Norwegian students to Brazil, Russia, India and China? I can't picture it. Or is it an expression of some kind of peculiar Norwegian form of cultural imperialism – that we believe that our education system is so sovereign? It's very good in our education system. But is it so sovereign and so unsurpassed that it exceeds the competence and insight you can gain from Bachelor's degree studies in these countries? Even more wonderful it becomes when I know that I live in a country where half of the population in their time emigrated to the United States and created their own life. It's actually almost incredible that it's almost not reflected in our collective memory when we gain awareness of labour migration and movements. 50 pst. of the population went to the United States, 20 p.m. came back. We should have thought that it had also been seized. We are now in the very – I must say – happy and special situation that we have an American ambassador who has had his great energy concentrated on how to get students who want it to go and take education at American universities. I have with the committee, and partly in other contexts on my own, studied a part of the universities, and they have in themselves qualities that I think you could get with them, let's call it qualities in a direction of formation. If you had the impression that these were some important signals, i.e. to countries like Brazil, Russia, India and China and to the United States, we're talking about 10-11 million. kr on a government budget. It's almost strange that I have to stand here and say that I don't understand why you don't want to run politics in such a way that even if you can't do everything you can with an internationalization message, at least you have to do just that. I understand that the big deal, which the whole committee agrees on, is what we do if we put completely systematic opportunities to send people out and take people in, and which are linked to the evaluation of the financial instruments for colleges and universities. We all get that. We realize that it has to go its way, and come back. But that's why it's so incomprehensible that you can't take a step that's considered a reasonable step. I believe that voting in favour of proposal No. 11 or also proposal No. 13, from the Progress Party, it would be. Finally, on behalf of the Advancement Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left – after hearing the statements made by the President today – I would like to ask that proposal No. 1 is converted into a transmission proposal. It's an expression of the good tone we have in the committee, which has also been expressed by the fact that we have some Roman number decisions that we agree on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e365	Globally, major and rapid changes are taking place in the structure and content of education, and Norway is actively involved in many processes and projects. This is particularly true of cooperation with the Nordic countries, with Europe and with the United States. This is absolutely necessary in order to increase knowledge, but also in order to influence development in the desired direction — with our experience and values. In addition, we need to do the job at home — internationalising the activities of our own educational institutions. Only by comparison and cooperation with other countries can we achieve a quality of education and research that enables us to compete with the best. This is a crucial premise for the preservation and further development of our welfare society. In addition, we need to extend the geographical perspective to countries and continents other than those with which we have traditionally cooperated. Countries such as China, India, Japan, Brazil and Russia are becoming increasingly important as precursors in education, research and business. To meet this development, we need in-depth knowledge in many areas. We must be among the best! The message suggests that internationalisation is much more than student mobility. Internationalisation applies to everyone — both students and professionals and administrative staff — and is something that happens both at home and at home. The Ministry of Knowledge has had a comprehensive dialogue and consultation round with the whole education sector prior to the notification. The measures proposed in the Communication reflect to a large extent the requirements and wishes of the sector itself to improve internationalisation. It has therefore been an important process. In addition, the notification addresses quality requirements for the courses taken by Norwegian students abroad, both in part-time and degree studies. This is why the Government will also take a closer look at the current education support scheme for those of our students who choose to take part in or complete degree training abroad. Here it should pay to choose quality. I will briefly comment on some of the main measures proposed. In the case of initial training, it is important that internationalisation becomes clear in the local work on curricula and curricula. Better statistics and overview of projects, travel activities and exchanges are also needed. We will work to correct this in order to get a better decision-making base. Furthermore, good information and guidance for schools and students is important. The Centre for the Internationalisation of Right-wing Education (SIU) will be strengthened to deal with these tasks. In addition, there is a need for a better system of criteria for the recognition and financing of exchanges abroad. We will look at this in detail, both in terms of content and in terms of who will do the work. Vocational training shall be strengthened by the establishment of a national qualification framework adapted to the European Union. This requires changes to the Fachscholegesetz, and the Ministry will come back to Stortinget with such an amendment. Vocational schools are very diverse in device, level and content, and there is little systematized knowledge of the school team. Therefore, it is necessary to improve the statistical basis before proposing good internationalisation measures. The Ministry of Knowledge will take the initiative to do something about this. In the case of higher education, the first evaluation of the Quality Reform shows that we are on the right track. Much good work has been done in the field of internationalisation, but of course we can get better. There is room to link internationalisation more closely to strategic developments in the institutions, to make institutions more responsible, and to improve the anchoring of work, both professionally and in management. Institutions need to become more attractive to attract foreign students and employees. It is then a prerequisite for offering good professional conditions and qualitatively good study offerings at international level. Therefore, attention is paid to measures that can help development in such a direction. The main actions are projects that stimulate professional and administrative cooperation, such as joint degrees and joint syllabi at both master and PhD level. In addition, 'tuning'-like projects will contribute to stronger and more extensive professional cooperation and transfer of knowledge and experience between institutions. Such obligatory action could also promote cooperation and coherence between education and research. In addition, the proposed pilot projects within the shortest professional training courses in higher education, such as teachers, nurses and engineers, will have a high transfer value for all these study offers. That's our assumption and our goal. With regard to the proposed changes to the support schemes for foreign studies, we will introduce a stronger link between quality and grant rate. It is proposed to draw up own lists of institutions and studies which are quality assured for the purposes of school money scholarships. It is assumed that these lists will be substantially extended in relation to the list of institutions on the current supplementary list and that they will not be restricted to institutions in English-speaking countries. Such quality lists will provide Norwegian students with greater assurance that expensive training abroad supported by the Loan Fund is of good quality. The Committee's position shows that there is a broad consensus on the main objectives, and this can be summarised in the words of quality, cooperation, relevance and attractiveness. Internationalisation will continue to be a high priority and the Ministry will try to find the best solutions for both students and employees.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e391	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e394	If, or if we say when, the field of education is included in the framework of the GATS, we will have an intensified competition between the educational institutions. The Progress Party has repeatedly called for equal treatment of private and public educational institutions in relation to public funding. Does the Council of State see that a global market orientation with competition between public and private institutions will impose a non-discrimination clearance on basic funding? And does the Council of State think that Norway is prepared for such a situation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e401	Norway is most prepared for further overall thinking on internationalisation. But I understand the representative so that he aims at the private colleges we have here in the country in relation to a competing situation with the rest of the world. There the signal from me and the government has been reasonably clear: that we have a system for paying school fees when there is a private institution in Norway. It's a system that can't easily be transferred to the system that we have when it comes to education abroad. I understand it so that it is e.g. BI and others who want such a change of system. To me, it's an important political principle that private schools are there as part of our whole system, but a point of being private is that they have school money. If you were to cover it by scholarships, as you do by studying abroad, we would have a problem following that principle. I have not planned to change anything about it, but I see absolutely good opportunities for better follow-up of the international section with Norwegian scholarships and loans from the Loan Fund.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e406	Quality is a difficult concept, especially in the field of education. There may be institutions which have an excellent level of education and academic level within certain special fields but which do not stand out as an institution. I am afraid that the cost of not having up-to-date quality lists can be much higher than the cost of the mistakes you might see by leaving more of the responsibility to both the institutions and the students themselves. I really don't think we have any choice but to trust that Norwegian institutions and Norwegian students are both conscious of their responsibilities and are conscious of the costs that foreign studies actually have. Why isn't the Council of State more on the line that you actually have to leave responsibility here to institutions and students themselves?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e413	I have heard and sit and hear, among others. The representative Gundersen criticises the Government and the notification for lack of action. And when there is then an action, namely a change in the system of scholarships through such quality lists, one does not believe that we should manage to implement it. I have very great faith in it. I think this will solve a lot of the problems that are about the freshman year today, and that will ensure the students quality. Of course, these lists are not about ensuring the quality of the department's business alone. I would like to point out the good cooperation we have had with the institutions, with the student organisations, with social partners and with many other important actors in the work on this communication itself. Of course, they will be involved in the further work on these extended lists, which are going to be quite extensive. I have great faith in this and believe that it will ensure the students a good quality. I also hope that the representative, Gundersen, will get over his skepticism to this very action.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e418	The councils concluded their speeches by saying that you want to find the best solutions. Nevertheless, there are some proposals that the government parties are going to vote for today. On 16 March, we were able to read in the Sunnmørspost about an unfortunate secondary exchange student who had taken half a year abroad. He had checked in advance and was told that it is allowed, but he refused to take a partner out. Today there is proposal No. 2, from the Progress Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left, which says that the Government should ensure that the support scheme is extended to include both Vg1 and Vg3, but that there is also an opportunity to study a semester out. The Government's response to the statement in the Sunnmørspost was that they should reconsider this, but today the government parties go and vote for it. Does it mean that it is entirely inappropriate to consider Vg1 and Vg3 and that you can take a semester out in high school?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e427	Adding the idea here to both Vg1 and Vg3, and not just Vg2, is a pretty extensive change in the system we have. Today, we want the student to go through it all with the opportunity to take a proper exam, and then we think that the second year is taken abroad – and that does not preclude a semester. So when it comes to starting from Vg1, I think it'll mean big challenges and require a different system. But I would like to stress that we want to go through this with Vg3 and the situation that the representative here mentions, for both it should be similar practice – and then we have an important follow-up task to do in relation to, for example. counties — and there should also be a reason to consider further measures at Vg3 level. But for the time being, I do not see a new arrangement where all three years of higher education are taken into such thinking.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e432	We live in a world where about everyone is excited that Barack Obama became president of the United States. We see that he sets a tone in relation to an unregulated international predatory capitalism, we see that he sets a whole new tone in relation to regimes like Iran, we see that he puts tones in relation to most, including the climate side. In a situation where the Norwegian number of students in the United States has fallen — and it must be perceived to be an exciting country in every way, both with international development and not least with the background of the American liberal arts tradition, which is particularly good at providing basic general education, and provides it in a way that I think we just have to say is good — it is a cross-thinking for the Left and a mystery for me, as I said from the pulpit instead, why the Government cannot put in place a real funding without going strange bureaucratic paths for the freshman year. After visiting a number of American institutions, including large and not elite institutions, my question is: what is the reason for this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e437	First of all, it is due to the Bologna process and an agreement that Norway has with so saying all the other countries that are there, and that we see a distinction in the level of European education and the US. But I believe that there is no bureaucratic arrangement to extend the system of supplementary lists to lists that ensure that students really get quality. I fully agree with the representative of Dørum that very many universities and colleges in the United States are of high quality and are good at what we both agree on in terms of education. I myself have been there talking to many of them, and I am eager myself to have more Norwegian students in the United States. Maybe the Obama effect will also cancel out that way. But I also think it's important that we get students to other parts of the world. Therefore, it is important to signal in this Communication that other co-operation countries for student exchanges are also important. That doesn't mean that we're not going to continue to stimulate sending people to the United States and getting American students here. But I think it has a slightly more complex reason than just one part of the grant scheme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e447	Early effort is a keyword. We also know that the basis and interest to look around the world – to put it that way – are often formed when the young and the students are in initial training. There is a mismatch between the framework transfer to the schools and the wishes and expectations built up. Indeed, a large number of children are being prevented from participating today because student exchanges, visits, white buses to Auschwitz – yes, all of this – are at a low level as it is now. Very often, it is the parents who have to provide alternative solutions, which in turn means that the economy plays a very important role, which also means that many students cannot participate. Then I think it is very strange that a Swedish State Council cannot show the will for an obliging state arrangement that just means that the internationalisation work at primary school does not stop.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e454	I think we can agree that the free principle is, in this way, an important fundamental principle for all Norwegian students to benefit from, for example. also abroad. What is an important task for the ministry is that we try to advise and guide both municipalities and county municipalities in such a way that they become the best possible practice and the most equal practice possible. I know that there are inequalities here, and we still have such issues in which we're conducting guidance, because we don't want to cancel the free principle. We want it to be the way the representative here says, that you should be able to be independent of your parents' economy. I hope that the work done on this, along with good examples, will lead to an even better grasp of that development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e459	So the chord change is over. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 1st@item: inlistbox [[See page 2687]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e479	The rapid development of medical technology offers many new opportunities. At the same time, developments raise difficult ethical issues. Technology moves boundaries and intervenes in the very process of life and the germinal life. It can improve the quality of life for someone and save life for others. The same technology can help interrupt a life because life is not considered viable. Right-wing believes that it is ethics that must limit the use of technology, not vice versa. The consideration of all human equivalency is fundamental. Although there is a broad political consensus on this, there is a different view of where the ethical boundaries should go. Rapid medical and technological development is also facing significant priority challenges. Even in Norway, as one of the world’s richest countries, the amount of resources available for medical treatment is limited. These priority challenges are not a theoretical problem or a future picture; they are the brutal reality that patients and health professionals face every day. Serious cancer people experience that they are being denied tried and tested treatment that might have saved their lives. Muscle disease is denied support for new medicines that could significantly improve their quality of life. And there are many other examples. Ultrasonic testing in pregnant women is an example of new technologies that can contribute to safe pregnancy and births and better health for mother and children, while raising some ethical and priority challenges. Today, all pregnant women are offered an ultrasonic study in 17-19 years. a week of pregnancy. If there are medical reasons for this, pregnant women will be entitled to an ultrasound examination throughout pregnancy. This also applies if the pregnant person is worried about the child. However, this debate concerns the provision of an ultrasonic study to all pregnant women between 11 and 12 years of age. maternity week and, where appropriate, the health effect on mother and child. In addition, we have to allow ourselves to reflect on what ethical dilemmas this confronts us. Many permanent parents who say yes to early ultrasound often do so because they want a first meeting with the unborn child. But this ultrasound study can also give them knowledge that the child may not develop normally, and this knowledge can confront them with one of life's toughest challenges, namely a personal settlement with one's own attitudes to life, to death and to human dignity. This aspect of ultrasonic technology does not appear so often. Then there was the offer of an ultrasonic test in 17-18. The week of pregnancy was recommended from the first consensus conference in 1986, despite the fact that no medical benefit of ultrasonic use was demonstrated. The reason was to improve the organisation of supply, to ensure quality and competence and to reduce unnecessary use of the study. The ethical issues surrounding the problem of malformation were not the subject. In 1995, a new consensus conference was held in which problems of malformation and ethics were at the top of the agenda. The 1995 Consensus Conference reached the same conclusion, and it was maintained that all pregnant women would continue to receive an offer for ultrasonic testing between 17 and 19 weeks. The study shall provide the basis for determining the term, determining the number of foetuses, the location of the mother cake and the anatomy and development of the foetus. In addition, pregnant women at particular risk are offered foetal diagnostics for weeks 11-14. In June 2008, the National Health Knowledge Centre provided a report assessing the effectiveness and diagnostic value of ultrasound examinations in the first, second and third trimesters. The knowledge centre reviewed all available documentation and found no general additional effect of introducing routine ultrasonics in 11-12. week or 32 weeks. In other words, there is no overall health effect for mother and child if an ultrasonic study offer is introduced before 12 weeks. The conclusion stands in clear contrast to claims made by the Health Policy Spokesman of the Workers' Party, Jan Bøhler, made in an article in the March 8th VG this year. Early ultrasound can save lives, says Bøhler, who also claims that this study can lead to hundreds of children being rescued annually, or to the avoidance of senaborts. This conclusion is corrected by Professor and child nurse Ola Didrik Saugstad in a reply in the same newspaper on 16 March. He points out that 30 out of 1,000 children born have small or large developmental abnormalities. He points out that there are no points to claim that these children benefit from early ultrasound. In other words, the working party oversells the possibility of a health effect for mother and child, which is inherently objectionable. When the Workers' Party has now decided to offer early ultrasound testing to all pregnant women, there is a basis for asking questions about the purpose of this study. So you have to offer a study of about 60,000 pregnant women per year, as in 97 pst. in cases where children are born without developmental deviation. The study also does not provide a general health effect for mother and children, and in most cases it cannot help to rescue or treat sick children. If public funding is to do this, it means choosing to extend the provision of health care to a part of the population that is essentially healthy, rather than providing a better provision of health care to those who are ill. If an offer of routine ultrasound examination is introduced before the 12th week of pregnancy, I am concerned that women will put the pregnancy on hold. Perhaps more hesitate to rejoice that a new life has been created, until they get the medical clearance of their unborn child. I'm talking about experience as a midwife, and as one who's been doing ultrasound tests on pregnant women for years. I am considered when enthusiastic researchers, clinicians and politicians argue too early ultrasound without this contributing to better health for mother and children. Rather, this contributes to the morbidity of pregnancy and to the creation of unnecessary anxiety and anxiety. However, it is at one point that the early ultrasound study is more effective than studies at a later stage, according to the Knowledge Centre report. It provides better grounds for demonstrating whether the child has a chromosome defect, such as: Down syndrome. There is no treatment for Down's syndrome, and such a study will not provide a basis for saving lives, as Bohemia claims. We also know that there is misdiagnosis, which means that healthy children are also aborted on the wrong basis. An early ultrasound study offer does not provide better health for mother and children, but results in more children with Down syndrome and others with developmental abnormalities being removed. It's a society right doesn't want. Like hopefully all the other parties in this hall, we believe that the right to self-determination has a limit. We set the limit when the right to free elections conflicts with respect to the equivalency of all people. When a fetus has large and severe developmental abnormalities and is not viable, abortion will be what creates the least impression for the woman instead of waiting for the fetus to die in mother's life, at birth or shortly after. But it's also a difficult choice for someone. Neither are these cases that create debate. Nor do I think that the possibility of accelerating abortion in a few weeks for very few women can justify investigations into the vast majority of healthy pregnant women. There are fetuses with less developmental deviations that represent an ethical problem. But no man has his dignity by virtue of his service. No one should lose their dignity because you're born with a chromosome abnormality or a disability. Down syndrome and spinal fractures are states that can be detected by ultrasonic means. These are states that are completely compatible with a good life. Ultrasound is a good and important aid in modern maternity care and maternity care. Many have gained a better quality of life thanks to technology. But we must control technological development and not let it govern us in enthusiasm and intoxication over the opportunities it provides. It is not that everything that can be done must be done. My question to the Council of State is therefore: how does he evaluate the ethical and priority aspects of a routine early ultrasound study for all pregnant women?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e524	The question of extending the number of ultrasound examinations to all pregnant women is a demanding one. It is linked to difficult ethical, political and societal issues. In particular, this applies to the early use of ultrasound, where some developmental abnormalities can be detected before the 12th week of pregnancy, i.e. within the limits of self-determined abortion. In Norway, all pregnant women receive one ultrasound study at week 18 of pregnancy. The offer is based on technical advice, which was also the subject of the interpellant, from a 1986 consensus conference. In addition to this one study, only ultrasound is given on the medical indication in public pregnancy care. Such an indication may, for example: be pain, bleeding or anxiety that pregnancy does not develop normally. New and improved technology has improved the quality of ultrasound images over the years. As a result, several developments have also been observed in the years following the introduction of the ultrasonic offer in the 18th week of pregnancy. This development — that several deviations were detected — led to major ethical discussions at the beginning of the 1990s. A new consensus conference on the theme was held in 1995. The result was the same as at the first conference in 1986: that ultrasound testing in week 18 should continue to be offered to all pregnant women. However, it was clarified that the doctor or midwife has obligations to inform the woman that the study is voluntary, and that she can say no. In recent years, the number of ultrasound studies offered to all pregnant women has again been raised. Therefore, the knowledge centre was commissioned to assess the effectiveness of routine ultrasound examinations in what is called the first trimester, weeks 11–13, in the second trimester, weeks 17–19, and in the third trimester, weeks 32–34. The 2008 report of the Knowledge Centre concludes, as described by the representative Sjøli, that there are no indications that routine ultrasonic examination in the first or third trimesters has anything to say about mother’s or foetus’s health. However, the Health Directorate considers that the report does not provide sufficient grounds for concluding on a medical basis whether it is recommended to extend the offer of routine ultrasound testing. The Health Directorate questions some of the conclusions of the report: The Directorate considers that there is reason to believe that two studies, one in weeks 11–13 and one in weeks 17–19, may lead to the discovery of several foetuses with heart failure. According to the directorate, it is difficult to assess what evidence of a prenatal heart failure has to say for the health of the child. Routine ultrasound during weeks 11-13 may also lead to early detection of fatal conditions, e.g. foetuses without brain or foetuses with lethal chromosome abnormalities. That means that women carrying such fetuses may choose to have abortions carried out at an earlier stage. In the opinion of the Health Directorate, this could be an advantage for the woman in order to avoid the strain of a latent or the stress of having a dead child born. The routine provision of ultrasound for weeks 11–13 is also a matter of prioritisation of resources. The study places great demands on technology, equipment and competence in the interpretation of the findings. It is also likely that such an offer will result in the detection of several conditions requiring follow-up in a hospital with special competences in the field of foetal diagnostics and foetal medicine. Issues can also be raised about current practices — with only one ultrasonic study — leading to social inequalities in access to healthcare. Women with good regulatory knowledge can more easily argue that there is a medical indication that they should be offered early ultrasound — or she can make sure to be examined in one of our neighbouring countries. In connection with the treatment of the Biotechnology Act 2003 – Ot.prp. No 64 for 2002–2003 on the Act on the Medical Use of Biotechnology – asked Stortinget Government to evaluate the new law after five years. The Act entered into force in part in 2004 and, from 1 January 2005, it was fully implemented. The evaluation shall be launched in 2009 and funds allocated to the State budget of the year. In this context, it would also be natural to look at current rules and practices for ultrasound in pregnancy. We also need to look at grey zones in the border country against foetal diagnostics, which are regulated by the Biotechnology Act. In my view, we do not have sufficient grounds to conclude whether more routine ultrasonic studies should be carried out for all pregnant women. There is a need for a thorough review of medical, ethical and priority aspects of such an offer — including the expected benefits compared to current practices. This work starts now – when we are going to evaluate the Biotechnology Act after five years of work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e561	I guess I actually asked about – and the Council of State initially said that it was also a political question – what was the opinion of the Council of State and not necessarily the opinion of the Health Directorate, although, of course, he based his assessments on it. What is positive is that the Council of State says that there are insufficient grounds for concluding that an ultrasonic study should be introduced before the 12th week and that a thorough review is needed. It is in stark contrast to the decision taken by the National Assembly of the Workers' Party, and what is written and debated in all the media of the Workers' Party, Jan Bøhler. So it might be interesting to better explain what the National Labour Party's decision is actually based on. I would like the Council of State to comment on this. Because they have actually agreed to study 60,000 pregnant women without contributing to better health for mothers and children. At the same time, they have promised a major dental reform with a price tag of DKK 10 billion, an interaction reform with thousands of new decision-makers and other measures to strengthen primary health services, and in addition, the Council of State has stated that expenditure growth in specialist health services needs to be limited. And there are still major health shortages for people in need of rehabilitation and drug addicts, and in the supply of mental health. In the context of maternity care, the provision of food and maternity care, too, there are still major challenges in ensuring a safe and healthy provision of health care for women and children. In view of these challenges, where the Government also has difficulties in providing good health services, the question of whether it is appropriate to use large resources on a health check for a large group mainly healthy mothers and children, when this does not even help to provide them with better health. So, as the Council of State itself said in its answer, it doesn't provide sufficient grounds to conclude, and he wants a broad review.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e566	I guess it's important when I come as Minister of Health and Care to the Storting to respond to the interpellations, to respond on behalf of the Government. And I have. Then there are three different political parties in the government that have somewhat different assessments of this issue. What I have now explained is the government's policy. Then we're going through a choice, which will then form the basis of the government's policy for the next four years. It will then emerge from the government negotiations that will have to take place in the autumn of 2009. It shouldn't be a particular unknown challenge for the Right either. As far as I understand, the Right wants to form a government with the Advance Party, which is certainly not consistently in agreement with the Right on all the issues we are dealing with here. So it's probably a theme that also needs to be prepared in any government negotiations where the Right Party participates. I feel that through my main response I have explained what is the Government's attitude, and also what in my opinion is very important. I was involved in dealing with the Biotechnology Act in Stockholm in 2003, and it was a very demanding round, in which many of us were challenged both politically and ethically. Then a biotechnology law was passed that had implications for ultrasonic policy as well. I feel a very strong commitment to stand on the consensus that was then there. It is about now making a thorough evaluation, summarising what has been happening since the last time, what has happened professionally, where we are professionally and prioritised, and on that basis once again assessing a comprehensive policy. That's a position I feel very well about. And that is also the government's policy in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e575	I thank the representative Sjøli for once again having the opportunity to discuss the ultrasonic question, after various media debates in recent times both with Sjøli and others from the Right. It began with the publication of one of these in the context of the proposal for a Right-wing Programme, which will take place at their forthcoming national meeting. The majority have gone in to remove a medical or eugenic indication during the reference treatment period from 17 to 18 weeks. I have expressed concern that this may in practice lead to the forcing of families to give birth to children with fatal or very serious hereditary diseases. In this connection, I mentioned that we in the Workers' Party have gone too early to offer ultrasonics, among other things. to detect fatal trends. The position has been well known back to the treatment of the Biotechnology Act, as mentioned by the Council of State, in 2003. However, there was a violent disturbance in the Right. We have had various debates, including the interpellation here today, which may be a little special. I feel that it is well as much addressed to the undersigned, to the Workers' Party and the National Assembly of the Workers' Party as to the Council of State and the Government. I believe that our position will lead to less sorting, not more. I would like to stress that Sjøli is based on the incorrect representation of what I have written and said. In the beginning, I said ultrasound for weeks 11-13, not until week 12. Later I have clarified week 12, which is what is recommended by the National Center for Foster Medicine, i.e. that early ultrasound must not be mixed with the decision-making basis for self-determined abortion, as the representative does. I think that's an important clarification. What you want to achieve is get time to make a thorough diagnosis of different syndromes that can be detected at this point in time. This applies, inter alia, to: syndromes in which twins have common morcoa, which apply approximately. 100 foetuses per foetus. years, and which can only be detected by ultrasound for week 12. The same applies to some types of heart failure. According to the National Center for Foster Medicine and other sources, the later ultrasonics can detect some of them. 20 pst. multiple cases of heart failure, by combining it with early ultrasound. At this point, you can discover some other syndromes that you can do something about with new foetal medicine. That doesn't mean I've said hundreds can be saved. We do not know anything about this today, as Mr. Sjøli also agrees. I have said that several hundred stillbirths and fatal developments leading to serious late births can be avoided. I haven't stated how many there are with one or the other, so deadly evolutions or senaborts, or how many could possibly be rescued by new foetal medicine. No one can say today. But what's a fact is that hundreds of people get traumatic senaborts. If you had discovered these conditions before, fewer families would have shock experiences that set serious and deep tracks. They could get help earlier, and you could avoid very traumatic and difficult conditions over a long time. The fact today is that people are voting with their feet. The midwife says that eight out of ten provide early ultrasound. The National Center for Foster Medicine in Trondheim says that there may be six out of ten. We don't have any sure numbers, but people get early ultrasound, partly private and partly because they justify their concerns about health care, permanent doctors, etc. and are referred. We believe that it is better to establish a public offer with good professional follow-up and quality assurance, than to have private offers of varying nature, which may even lead to people unconsideredly deciding to seek self-determined abortion on the wrong basis, or on a basis that makes them possibly regret, or they can decide to apply for the wrong basis for weeks 17-18 because they have not received sufficient professional follow-up and guidance related to the offer of early ultrasound. Very well known, abortion rates in Norway have not increased after more and more people have started to take early ultrasound. If the Right believes that this is a dramatic development towards a sorting society, one should have preferred a ban on early ultrasound, instead of leading these half-way debates. You also match your feet around the world. Countries by country around the world have introduced early ultrasound in week 12. Germany started in 1995. This has been introduced by the United Kingdom, Iceland, Finland, the Netherlands, Belgium, France, Spain, Portugal, Italy, Austria, Slovakia, Hungary, Poland, Turkey and Denmark. In Sweden, each Member State decides whether to introduce such an offer. It's not like the Right would call all these societies sort societies. It is true that the National Assembly of the Workers Party has decided that pregnant women should be offered early ultrasound. We are satisfied with the way in which the Council of State has announced that the Government will continue to work on the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e593	The interpellant addresses a vulnerable topic that it is important that we also discuss here. I will first join the post to Jan Bøhler, a very good post. It was very well justified and explained in many areas. After all, the researchers at Trondheim want to use ultrasound to capture fetuses with defects or disease from week 12. This is similar to a previous study approved by the same researchers, but which was stopped by then Minister of Health Dagfinn Højbräten in 1999. Researchers at Trondheim estimate that it is possible to detect serious developmental deviations already in week 12 that we find today in week 18. The interruption process will then be easier. For many, it's the only option. It's painful for pregnant people, in happy circumstances, to know that something is wrong with an unborn child or foetus. It is painful and difficult to decide to interrupt a pregnancy, either because the child will not be able to live up to it, or because of the life that the child will have, or because of other weighty reasons. In addition, for many there will be an extra heavy burden that the interruption must take place so far into pregnancy. It should be easy to understand that the psychological stress is an extra strain on the woman who carries the child. Director Sissel Rogne of the Biotechnology Department believes that the research project in Trondheim is important. She says, ‘Instead of thinking about what is best, it must be better to know what answers can be given about the foetus, even earlier in pregnancy. It is a great burden for the woman to undergo a latent journey.» In Norway, those over 38 years of age at term, or those with Down’s syndrome in the family, may have such tests early. Should not all pregnant women be given the same opportunity to know if everything is good with the fetus, to make your own choices? I believe that at least we need to assess that. Many are concerned that these are studies that will trigger a high number of abortions, and that will affect those with Down's syndrome and spinal cord fractures. It may happen, but to avoid pregnant women taking abortion, the solution is not to try to prevent information. Everyone today is allowed to take ultrasound for week 12, but here too you see a clear class distinction between those who know the possibility and have the economy to pay the study themselves, and the others. Many pregnant women do not know that Down’s syndrome and spinal fractures are the easiest to detect earlier than the study that the government is offering. And many people feel that they don't get enough information about this. There may also be other advantages with an early ultrasound, which in total can lead to fewer abortions. Ultrasonic research helps to strengthen the emotional links between father, mother and unborn child — and perhaps the children of the family as well. Perhaps an awareness of the unborn child also early in pregnancy, that it is really a child and not just unfinished cells, could lead to fewer people choosing abortion even before week 12. There are so many abortions in Norway today, and most people who choose to have abortion for different reasons are taking away a healthy child. The ethical question of abortion is difficult, whether the expected child is healthy, or it has a disability. Pregnants who are told that something is wrong with the foetus will have a better chance of assessing whether they can keep the child if they get the message early. They can receive information from Amathea and voluntary organisations working for children with disabilities, and it can help encourage the pregnant person to keep the child. A Danish father of a well-functioning adult boy with Down's syndrome appeared in a TV show this weekend. He said surprisingly that if he had had an opportunity, he would have chosen that the boy should not have been born. He added that he would also choose today. My thought was right away: why – when everything is so good? The answer was that he did not expect to live as long as his son did, and that these children also at adult age depend on their parents to stand up and follow up on their well-being. He is one of the many parents with Downs children who are concerned about how the children are going to deal with when they no longer have parents. The Progress Party has made proposals for its own representative with a right of sanction to care for mentally retarded persons, precisely to ensure that mentally retarded persons do not have to be dependent on relatives throughout their lives. Developments are taking place, and there is little we can do to prevent by not offering ultrasonics early. What can help many people to choose to give birth to children with disabilities is that they feel confident that their children will survive and have a good life, regardless of whether they have parents who are alive. The progress party has not taken a stand on this early ultrasound, but we do not see it as our task to prevent pregnant people from getting information, but to give everyone the opportunity to make their own choices and make sure that disabled people have a decent life, even if their parents are not there for them at all times.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e626	Like several others, I would like to stress that the interpellation taken up here by Sonja Sjøli is very important – it is an important and demanding theme. I myself was the rapporteur-general for the Biotechnology Act during the last growing period and felt that the discussion on the guidelines for the use of ultrasound in pregnancy led to a large public debate. At the same time, I experienced that the way the matter was handled in Stortinget was thorough. Both the Medical Association, the Earth Mor Association and the Norwegian Gynecological Association looked thoroughly through the guidelines that apply today, and gave their approval to it. So here the professional input that came was very much taken into account. I am pleased that the Council of State stresses that these guidelines are still in place today. I also share the opinion of the Council of State that it must be reasonable to have a thorough review of the use of ultrasound in pregnancy based on professional criteria, before possibly changing the guidelines for the use of ultrasound in pregnancy. Now, as many have said, there have been at least two national consensus conferences — one in 1986 and one in 1995. It has proved to be one way of getting the actual ratios. While I agree with the Council of State that it is important to have a thorough review before any change, I believe that, to the extent that the Council of State could well have problematicated the consequences of early ultrasound in a clearer way than he did. And Boehler's not close to problematizing it. We see — not least from the United Kingdom and Denmark — that, in the case of selective abortions linked to early ultrasound, children with Down syndrome are born to a much smaller extent than before. That means denying that the sorting society has already arrived is denying the reality we're facing. So you could say that the longer you go with that kind of fine diagnostics, the more it's going to be a challenge we have to deal with. The problem that Bøhler was weighing, that at an early stage you can detect conditions that can then be treated in Mother's life, is, to put it mildly, an extremely rare condition. I can count on one hand the times I have been facing such conditions for fifteen years as a municipal doctor, while facing conditions where taking selective abortion as a consequence of the findings is a much more frequent problem issue which therefore has to be problematic. Then someone will defend that it is reasonable that you should have occasion to do so, but then you have to argue. I think that in many ways Vigdis Giltun did. She was open to allow selective abortion and accept it. But if you argue that it's a non-problem, as Jan Bøhler does, you close your eyes to the reality we're already facing. What we see in countries that we don't naturally compare with, China and India, is that the selective abortions also lead to the removal of girls, so that we start to get a gender distribution by ultrasound that is suspicious in a long-term social perspective. I have to say that I am pleased with the legal protection that you are seeking to give pregnant women attached to the labour market, which the Government has now stressed. Because if the employer is allowed to start asking questions about pregnancy and using it as an exclusion criterion, the pregnant job is not allowed. That's what you have to work to prevent. But one must also be concerned that the pregnancy, the embryo that the woman carries, must itself have a certain legal protection. The consequences of using new technologies cannot be completely ignored, and it is an over-simplification to imagine that all information to parents at the earliest possible stage solves the challenges facing them. It's not like that. An example of this could be the detection of breast cancer in the American population. 200,000 American women went to the drastic step of removing both breasts because they were unable to live with an increased risk of breast cancer. So a few years went by, and so the researchers said that the risk was not very close to what they first thought. It turned out that women who had been removed from healthy breasts did not actually have a greater risk of breast cancer than the rest of the population. That is why all technology must be used in a sense, and it must be professionally anchored. That Sturla Eik-Nes alone wants to make use of this technology, is well-known, but he can't be a premiscuous supplier alone for how we use it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e647	First of all, I would like to thank the interpellant for raising this interpellant, which is important. I would like to begin by reading the conclusion of the Knowledge Centre report: ‘On the question of the effectiveness of routine ultrasound blood samples in the first trimester, the conclusion in this report is that this only results if foetuses with Down’s syndrome are examined.’ When it comes to foetal diagnostics, many people have strong opinions and feelings. One place to see this is on the website www.babyworlden.no. I just want to quote something from here. My starting point is that what you find is fetuses with Down's syndrome. One write it like this: ‘Everyone should have the opportunity to check whether the child they carry has downs or other deviations. The fact that in Norway they only offer this to women over 38 years of age is provocative. I'm under 30, and I've had a baby with downs. We didn't suppose anything, and the shock was big. [[...]] When technology exists, why not use it? So people don't have to experience this. It is entitled to self-determined abortion.’ There's one statement. Another printer: “I feel angry when this case comes up... one thing is to figure out mortal anomalies at 12 weeks, but downs are not a mortal state. Yes, I know that there are big differences in children who have downs, many require more than others. I myself have a daughter with downs, it was of course a big shock when she was born, knew nothing in advance. I don't know what I would have done if I had known about it in my pregnancy, but I doubt I had had an abortion. I think I'd rather have been involved in what it's like to have a special child. The first year was tough, must admit it, but had never wanted to be apart from my glorious sunshine. People have too many prejudices, everything has to be perfect, people will know exactly the date and time of the child's birth, and sex is almost mandatory to know when you're on ultrasound. Is for self-determined abortion, but people should be given more information about the deviation that is found, not just getting a new hour to abortion on the basis of deviations with which they can live.’ The last one I want to quote, says, ‘I feel that it provokes me, that it should be a matter of course to get early ultrasound. [[...]] Today, we shall be able to choose and reject in all areas of society, even life and death. [[...]] I find it sad that so many people opt out of children when down syndrome is detected, and I'm afraid that there will be even fewer people born with downs if everyone gets the right to early ultrasound. I'm the mother of a two-and-a-half-year-old boy with downs, he's the world's most glorious and as parents we're very proud of everything he learns and gets! To me, there's a big difference between choosing whether to have a child, choosing what kind of children to have... what kind of world do we want? There should be room in our society also for those who are a little different." I want to add that there are many conditions other than Down's syndrome and many diseases that people live very well with. Otherwise, I will praise the representative Ballo for a very good, ethically reflected post, which I can fully join – not everything he said, but at least what went on in the ethical, in the last part of the post. Despite different opinions, I think it is important to think through what kind of arrangements we as a society are going to make in order to allow us to choose what kind of children we are going to have. For me, the Knowledge Centre report is good. I've read the conclusion: there's no profit in picking up children with Down's syndrome. The Council of State says the Health Directorate doesn't think the report is good enough. What I'm asking is what documentation the Health Directorate in that way is based on, and what they've said. I guess my question is really about the health directorate's attitude, if they have one, or their assessment is available. What is in the Knowledge Centre's report that they have responded to? In fact, they have been sitting for more than two years and have done a thorough examination of all available research reports. As for the representative, Bøhler, I am uncertain as to what numbers and what documentation he is based on. I think he's almost an extended arm of Sturla Eik-Nes. My question is whether we should spend resources on actions that are documented as not representing a health benefit. Or is it defined as a health benefit to discover and sort out the fetuses you don't want? I'm just asking.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e687	I would also like to thank the interpellant for addressing this issue. It's very important that we in this room also discuss something other than pure economy, that we also have ethical issues on the table that are very important. I can immediately say that the Left does not support the establishment of a public and free provision of ultrasound examinations in week 12 for all pregnant women. We don't think that's right. Several other speakers have pointed out that no health benefits have been found, either in the mother or the foetus, and that is knowledge-based. There shouldn't be any big problems with having such a health consensus here. I think we have many other challenges when it comes to prioritising health if we don't want to expand this supply as well. So the left wants to stick to current practice, which is ultrasonic in weeks 17-19 by default for all pregnant women. When some people point out that we have new research, I think I'm going to say like Ballo, that here we have to use the research in a sense. It is unlikely that we will jump on everything possible. I think there's a very important moment in this case. The left is in agreement with the interpellant that the problem has a very heavy ethical side. An extra early ultrasonic examination may help to sort out. We get more uniformity and, to put it another way, the same human being. It's easy to talk about Down's syndrome in this case, which is also mentioned in these investigations, but it was probably Giltun's representative who called the spinal cord. I just want to remind the Storting that there has been a government council in this room with spinal cord fractures. Left thinks that society will lose extremely much inadequacy and become much poorer and much colder in the future if we're to let this go too far. At least such a society is not a society after its left heart.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e701	I would like to thank you for the debate. It is important, and we should have more such debates here in this Chamber. But at least there is a technical and, not least, political disagreement about the introduction of early ultrasound, and there are various reasons for this. As I said in my previous post, I am glad that the Council of State says that several of us have known for a long time, that there is not enough evidence to draw a conclusion on whether to introduce an early ultrasound, and that there is a need for a thorough review. A question to the Council of State then is whether he could imagine that a consensus conference could be held again. It's probably 13 years ago, and there's been a lot of happening in this field. I have participated/were panel participants in such a consensus conference, the first, but what surprises me is that there has not been any new professional development on the basis of a study between 11 and 13 weeks in these 20 years. It surprises me, because at least some professionals talk like it's happened a lot – you might call it some professional seduction, too, where some people are tempted to believe. However, as the Knowledge Centre summary also showed, there is much to it that it is effective to discover, among other things. Down syndrome. I also feel that someone is shifting the ethical boundaries away from the abortion debate and referring to the right of self-determination. But a prerequisite for a real self-determination is that one is well-informed. My experience is that in general, healthcare tends to sub-communicate the negative aspects of mass testing and screening, and that is, of course, because they have a goal of getting the most involved in such a study. I have to say I'm being considered when enthusiastic researchers and clinicians and politicians argue too early ultrasound as if it were a fundamental human right. I don't think we're done with this debate through this interpellation. I think it is important that the debate continues, and I will again challenge the Council of State to organise a new consensus conference and get new research on user attitudes, get a proper review of the ethical issue, but also of the priority issues in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e710	More have been concerned with what I said in my main post on the Health Directorate's assessment of these questions. What I have said is based on a letter from the Health Directorate sent to the Ministry of Health on March 3rd this year. Of course, it's public and accessible to everyone. There they express their opinion on the report of the Knowledge Centre on the use of ultrasound in pregnancy. There's a lot in that letter, it's on six pages, but I'll read the conclusion, where it says: ‘As we see it, the report does not provide sufficient grounds for assessing the effect of routine ultrasound during weeks 11 to 13 for mother and child health. A possible offer of routine ultrasonic testing in weeks 11–13 to all pregnant women would be too controversial. [[combined with blood tests]] We therefore believe that a thorough review of medical, ethical and priority issues may be appropriate before any decision is taken.’ It is a conclusion I agree with and feel very well with. As I said, we are already in the budget for this year to carry out an evaluation in line with what the Stortinget has adopted and requested under the Biotechnology Act. Then it has to be summed up, and then I think it is very well suited to a new consensus conference, when you have a breadth and a professionalism on these issues. So, as I said, the Ministry of Health and Health feels well about the race that is now planned. But then I think there's a problem that we're going to come up with anyway, and that's: we're all opposed to the sorting society, but the question is how we go about combating the sorting society. I think if this is the way to get knowledge of the fetus through research, it will be difficult to say in the long run that we are going to fight the sorting society by not allowing the pregnant person to gain access to this knowledge. In the long run, I think it's hard to fight the sorting society with a strategy that says we're not going to let the pregnant woman have access to the knowledge. I have to say that my basic idea is much more in the direction that we have to fight the sorting society by saying that once you've got knowledge, society has to stand there and say that if you choose to give birth to this child, we have to stand up. And that's where it fails. Yes, now we're going to evaluate and discuss and evaluate, but I don't think we're going to get away from finally facing an ideological and strategically very different choice as to how to combat the sorting society: are we going to do it by limiting knowledge, or by facilitating relationships?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e724	The debate on substance is closed. So 2 is over.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e740	I want to start with a historical perspective around this. Fortunately, we are now in a situation in society that we can choose how we live our lives to much greater extent than before. If we flush back a hundred years in time, to the ladies who fought for women in this room to have the rights we have today, it was a great shame to be living alone, and it was also very difficult economically to believe that one could live a life alone. So the right to choose to live alone is also an important right historical set, sail if it really isn't put together with the other rights. This room often mentions the concepts of ‘family policy’ and ‘children’s families’ as important areas of activity. Most of it you agree that it's important to bet on, but sailing alone or single is a very complex group, doesn't that mean there's a group you shouldn't have policies against. The group ‘children’s families’ is also a very complex group, yet this room has often developed policies for that group. Today, 850,000 people live alone in Norway. That means 40 pst. the country's households consist of one-person households. That means 18 pst. Of those who live here in the country, they live alone. It is the group that is growing the most, and it also increased the most in 2008. The proportion of single residents was 4 pst. in 1960, 10 p.m. in 1980 and 18 p.m. Now. The family consisted in 1960 of an average of 3.3 people and has now fallen to an average of 2.2, although we are among the more fertile in the world, at least in Europe. Oslo has most people living alone. Near 30 pst. We live here, and we have urban areas, like this. St. Hanshaugen, which has up to 47,6 p.m. single-dwelling residents. In 2006 an order from the Bondevik II government was issued by a report from the SSB entitled ‘The Living Corps of Alone Residents’. There are some important numbers and some important warnings for us as politicians that I think we have to take seriously. One is that single residents generally serve less than the average population. In general, those living alone who fall within the low-income group have a weaker professional relationship, a lower level of education and are more frequent beneficiaries of social assistance, such as housing and social assistance. It's the only group that's gotten less to route lately. It's a group of 44 pst. answers that it is difficult to get the pay to pay, while there are only three out of ten of those living in pairs, who say the same thing. Poverty is defined in different ways, but it is clear that on the basis of the concept of poverty, it is the group that is increasing the most and that is lagging most behind in the development of income. It is also the group that works the most overtime, both because it is most difficult for them to say no, and because at a time of individual wage formation they have at least to throw in the table with good arguments as to why you should have a wage increase. When we have a group that then falls outside one of the two important indicators I'm going to raise, I think it's amazing that we're not trying to develop more policies towards them. One of those areas is our charging system. We have a charging system that hangs in an old 1950s thinking that households are something that consists of more incomes and more houses, and on such households we charge taxes. One of those charges is the NRK licence, which is then levied according to the old 50s standard on what is a household. In addition, we have a number of fixed expenditures that are neither good environmental policies nor good single policies. It goes on the trash, it goes on the electricity, it goes on the water, and it goes on the phone, where we put a lot on the solid and not on consumption. It would have been a good environmental policy to turn this around more on consumption, and it would also have been a good single policy. The residential area is an area which has become worse and worse for these groups, as housing prices have increased. In fact, the right to own their own home has now been very high in Norway – the right and the possibility to have the joy of putting the nail in the wall and not thinking of having a bad conscience towards someone you hire. But the way into the housing market is just getting harder and harder with the high housing prices. If something is to be done in this area, good savings schemes must be provided in combination with owner schemes and other types of ownership if one is to be able to single into the housing union. When we see that it is an extremely urban policy area, we also see that the challenges single has are primarily related to urban areas. Another area of policy in which solutions may be difficult to find is that of consumer advice. If you look at the percentage of wages and salaries you spend on consumer goods, you'll see that a single person uses 33 pst. of wages and salaries, a couple without children use 26 pst. of wages and salaries, while a couple with children use 23 pst. of their remuneration for that purpose. A SIFO research that was presented some years ago showed that an adult spent around NOK 4 260 of the monthly salary on food, clothing, health and leisure, while moving together in pairs, they increased the cost by just NOK 140. There is a lot that the market needs to deal with in this area, but it is clear that consumer law requires regulating what is called package offers, discounts and other offers that make it very useful to buy large quantities of all kinds of consumer goods, and also the type of other insurance services. We know that single is the worst insured group in the country, and we know how important insurance is not to end up in the poverty trap you can end up in when the accident is over. Another area that I think it's strange that no more people are taking hold of, because it has so many consequences, are the health problems you see occurring in this group. When I was a social teacher — beginning to be 15 years ago — all the statistics showed that men living with women lived longer than men living alone, and women living with men lived shorter than women living alone. The conclusion in my social class was then that men were «harmful». Now the statistics show that this is not right. Now, singles live shorter than those who actually live in pairs. A lot of health indicators work on this. I think that's a big debate in society. It's about how we offer our entire health system, and that if you're really sick, there's actually someone who has to push you through, all the times you're hanging out at work, and someone really should have said that you should have gone to the doctor with this, or today you should have been home. That means that we have a health system that essentially assumes that you have someone who stands up for you, to get through it. It's a big debate, but I think it's well connected with the welfare reform that the Left talked about at its national meeting this weekend, where you move resources down and try to say that it's the determination and primary health service that's going to contribute to the most important solutions, because it's in the primary health service that you can have a follow-up of each individual person in a different way. A new social structure and a new family structure mean that there is also a need to influence the health system in that direction. What I wanted to spend the last minute of my speaking time on is the joy of having a culture with a lot of single people, because there's nothing that leads to more cultural use than having singles. No one goes so much on the cinema, no one goes so much on the theater, no one goes on so many concerts, and no one uses the public space as much as those who live alone. That means that this city had e.g. have been incredibly much more boring if it had not been for all singles who are largely involved in raising cultural consumption in this city. Had it not been for the singles, we would have had much more boring cities. So single is one of the benefits of the change in the social structure that we've seen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e770	The single-dwelling group is a large and complex group. Over the last 15 to 20 years, more and more of them have been growing. In the SSB life-cycle survey of 2006, there were around 900,000 people living alone. But despite the fact that this is a very complex group, it is important that we look at how welfare reforms, welfare proposals, turn out in relation to single residents. The fact that there will be a criterion for assessing different welfare policies also contributes to the representative by raising this gap. The proportion of single residents often increases in relatively rich communities when more people have a financial opportunity to live alone. Among the single residents we find persons of both sexes, of all ages, rich, poor, sick, healthy and everything else. Some live alone over shorter periods of life, others more permanently. Someone has chosen to live alone, for others it was just like that. It's impossible to put a common tag on the single occupants. It also makes it more demanding to develop a general welfare policy. In its report, the SSB finds that single residents are overrepresented in the population as a whole on a very long list of many living conditions challenges. They have high income-related living costs, low income levels, high debt burden, health problems and low social participation — but also high participation rates, which the representative has to face. However, the government does not believe that the solution to these problems is to set up measures specifically aimed at single residents, at least in relation to the proposals that have been made in the past. In the view of the Government, the problems of living conditions of single-dwelling people mainly need to be addressed through the general policy pursued to balance living conditions in the population. We need to set up measures to address the needs of both those living with others and those living alone. The government has discussed whether it was in place with a big deal about single residents. We found that single residents do not have so many common problems that could be met with joint action, that they defended their own big message. Instead, the government has set in motion a cross-ministerial work on several measures relating to some issues of particular concern to single residents. The question of the living conditions of single residents is far from new. The proposal for a separate tax deduction has been discussed at regular intervals over the past 30 years. The last time it was dealt with in Stortinget was during the previous magnification period in connection with a Document No. Eight proposals. The moments from that time are also valid today. A general tax deduction for single residents would be less accurate compared to those in the group with the main economic problems, as these usually have relatively low taxes. However, this will not be targeted in relation to the poverty problem group. One of the main causes of poverty is some lack or very weak links with the labour market. Even for people without a direct poverty problem, but with a strenuous economy, a tax deduction for single residents will not be a rigorous instrument. There are little objective criteria to identify which of these are economically disadvantaged. Instead, let me outline some of what this government has done in the form of targeted measures to address living conditions problems, measures that will largely reach disadvantaged single residents. The government considers it essential to strengthen the links with the labour market for those outside. Work is important to ensure income and to reduce social and economic differences. And the paper on work, well-being and inclusion contains strategies on how action, services and social benefits can be organised to help more people get into work. The qualification programme is one of the good proposals that have come here. The poverty action plan also includes measures to improve the living conditions of the disadvantaged. The effort continued and strengthened in 2008 and 2009. In order to improve the economic situation and living conditions of people dependent on social assistance, the rates from 1 January 2009 have increased by 5 pst. in addition to normal price increases. In the social security system in 2008, there was an agreement to raise the minimum amount of the single pension. At the same time, the guaranteed supplementary pension scheme for young people was strengthened. Many disadvantaged people do not receive housing support under today's legislation. The government has therefore extended the scheme and simplified the rules. A new and simplified housing aid will be introduced in summer 2009. The requirement that people without children have to have social security in order to receive housing support is removed and simpler housing than today will be supported. These simplifications, together with an increase in the income limit, allow new recipients to benefit from this scheme. Around 100000 households are currently receiving state housing support. With a new scheme, housing aid will reach a further 50000 households. 30000 of these new recipients live alone — a complete measure. The start-up scheme shall help young people and disadvantaged people in the housing market to establish themselves in their own owner-occupied housing. The loan is provided via local authorities. In 2008, the number of drug users in the EU increased by about 25%. 6 500 households start-up loans. 40 pst. Of these lived alone. The government also increases the grant of rental dwellings. This will help to ensure the housing of several disadvantaged people, many of whom will be lonely. In the case of municipal taxes, changes have been made that may have an impact on single residents, including the representative. Access of municipalities to the establishment of a minimum fee for water and sewerage expired on 1 January 2008. Both the municipality and the taxable person may require that the water charge be determined on the basis of actual water consumption. In the case of household waste, fees shall follow the principle of self-sufficiency. Municipalities are encouraged to differentiate fees. It is the municipality that currently has to assess, on a case-by-case basis, the determination of differentiated charges. The government is working on several fronts to counter unfair living conditions in the population. This is a targeted work that has a positive effect also on economically disadvantaged single residents.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e812	I thank you for the answer from the Council of State. I probably disagree that it is impossible to put a common tag here, until we deal with groupings that contain the same ‘inability’, so often, for example. that families with children are an equal and homogeneous group based on pay, place of residence and income — all the different social factors — but this group is just as complex as the single resident group. On the other hand, what I am very pleased about is that the Council of States is putting an end to the proposal on tax deductions. That is why representatives from the Central Party are not present in the Chamber. I think it's a pretty impossible measure to implement, since we live in a society where we actually also change living conditions quite often, and that it's primarily not the tax rate we want to have in order to regulate who it is who sleeps in bed, and who it is that doesn't. All right, let's go to the living The grip that the government is doing in relation to housing support, I agree is good. But we would have had to implement housing reforms, for example. connected to saving and connected to the possibility of entering the housing market with the first dwelling, if you have only one salary. That's what's difficult in today's housing market, especially in the cities. In terms of health, I think we need to have a fundamental change of mind, that we don't always have someone who pushes us through the health system. Today we have a health system that really assumes that we have someone to set up for us. In terms of charging policy, I agree with – with the grips that apply – that consumers can be required to do so. But the vast majority of single residents live in residential areas, such as the U.S. housing law, where this is not so easy to push through alone. Therefore, it is likely that the possibility of stimulating interventions in residential areas, such as housing law, similar to an Enova measure, should have meant that there is a subsidy to use meters that would have also reduced water consumption by obtaining an individual assessment of water consumption. We have seen in a lot of countries that water consumption has been reduced enormously by adding water meters and basing the tax on consumption, not on a general fee. Bringing water down is a challenge in a country like Norway, which has enough water. This also means that a municipality will reduce its costs, as investing in water plants is actually quite expensive. So investing in these grips is a good social economy, as well as a good single policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e827	The representative argues that there are also differences in living conditions among families with children. That's right. But single residents as a group are characterised by greater income differences than in the general population. The income inequalities are greatest among young people living alone, i.e. those under 35. The 10 pst. which serves the most, has an income greater than four times the income of the 10 pst. at least. In the population as a whole, this ratio is 2.6, so there are very large income differences among single residents as a group. With regard to the housing support, I am pleased that the representative is pleased with the grips we have done there. That'll be a lot of people living alone. What is advanced in relation to health probably applies primarily to men who do not live with a lady. We see that men who live with their mother go to a doctor more often. Men who live with ladies go to play more often. But the men who live alone go little to play. This is a major societal problem, and we can prevent a lot of health damage by raising awareness of gender. This is a very good example that thinking about equality, looking at health from a gender perspective, will help a lot of men. We know that in our society women are affected more often by femoral fractures than men, but there are more men who die from it. The reason is that they go too late for a doctor. Focusing on the need to go more often to a doctor is important. It is also a good single policy, but it is primarily about having a gender perspective in today's healthcare system. All the proposals on which the representative is concerned in relation to housing law and water consumption, I think, are good proposals. We will constantly evaluate them in cooperation with the municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e838	I'm so lucky to be living with my wife and children. But I also have lived in long periods of my life as single. I am perfectly aware that it is difficult to get the ends to meet, especially if in such a context you have a low or medium wage. When I lived as a single, I worked as a case manager in the public sector – not exactly a very well paid profession. It is clear that it is costly to keep houses, apartments, car charges, NRK taxes and household waste taxes, which are based on three- to four-person households. There is a location between 800000 and 900000 single residents in Norway. Four out of ten households consist of one person. Nevertheless, the social debate is largely about family households. Loneliness is not a uniform group. There are lonely people who are elderly, young, single parents, rich and poor, as has been pointed out in this debate. Until the 1970s, it was common for families to have one income. Today, both parents like to work, as well as families with children being paid billions a year over the state budget. The economy means a lot in everyday life, and the Progress Party, in its budget proposals, provides a great deal of tax relief, while we believe that public services such as the state and the municipality provide should not cost more than what they cost to produce. This means that many public and municipal charges and charges should be reduced, says the Progress Party. We wish, among other things: reducing car charges, document charges, and electricity charges. We have proposed to reduce the food tax, which we had achieved in the previous growing period, with a reduction to 11 p.m., but as the government of Stoltenberg increased to 14 p.m. when it came to power. The progress party will abolish the NRK licence and lower the medicated participation rate. These tax proposals will have a major impact on the single economy, together with the general tax cuts proposed by the Progress Party. Statistics Central Bureau has evaluated the impact on the Norwegian economy for several years on the basis of the proposals made by the Progress Party for the State Budget. The evaluations clearly conclude that there will be lower interest rates than the Government’s arrangements, and this will, of course, also have a positive impact on the lonely. If we look at the red-green government, we believe it bears the burden of loneliness. So there has been an increase in the VAT on food, and other taxes have been increased, which has led to a tighter economy for the country's lonely. Strong housing and building restrictions are also maintained, which means that few new dwellings are built and that the prices of dwellings, especially in press areas, are growing every year. An example of this is, for example: the recent regulations on the Oslo area. It is also a fact that the Government has not changed the pension rules that keep many single pensioners below the poverty line. The Progress Party will reduce the overall tax and tax burden. This will give a more unified economy. We want to reduce car charges and other charges, and we want public charges to be driven in much tighter lines than they do today. We also want to liberalise the law in order to facilitate more housing, which will provide more housing and lead to rental and property prices with which it will be possible to live even for solitude. In addition, the Progress Party will change the pension system so that the minimum pension reaches a more valuable level than it is per. today. We also want to change the rules, so that widows and widowers who have not earned their own pension can take over their spouse's pension.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e857	First of all, I would like to thank the representative, Trine Skei Grande, for asking this question to the Council of State and thus putting an important theme on the agenda. We know that there are many people who live alone who shout for justice, and we know that the group of permanent singles is growing. It strikes me that after the Council of State made its first contribution, I feel the need to say that we must not make the lonely. The Governments mentioned poverty rate, work and qualification programme, social assistance rates, etc. What I'm concerned about is that the solitudes say they want justice: they want a system and a society that's adapted to this that they're actually lonely. I'm going to come back to some measures that I think will be able to meet this – without the lonely being destitute or being told that they can go to social if they need help. I might put it a little bit on the head, but I got a little feeling about this. The Christian People's Party has very good family policies, and as part of this we also have very good single policies. To say a little bit about our proposal for a programme for the next enlargement period: we want to work for a complete single policy. We want to improve single access to the housing market and create a fairer charging system. The first step will be to ensure that municipal charges are calculated on the basis of consumption. We have also taken into account that since we know that many single-dwelling people are disadvantaged in living conditions studies, we need to better monitor this through our own big message, so that targeted measures can be put in place to ensure that single-dwelling people experience social equality. As you know, in the Bondevik II government, I had started working on my own big message, which this government did not want to follow up, as the Council of State explained. One-person households account for a large proportion of the households in the population, and I believe that their situation needs to be given greater attention. The starting point for discussing the same situation must be that the Norwegian society has been provided for families and couples in many areas and in many ways. Whether the single status is desired or not, it brings a number of disadvantages. These disadvantages should be an objective to be corrected. With regard to the housing situation — several of which have been affected — the biggest and most fundamental disadvantage is quite obvious, namely the high threshold for getting into the housing market at all. Thousands of young people and some older people — also lonely — want to buy their first apartment, but quickly discover that it is quite difficult, with one income and not too much savings. We believe that it is necessary to ensure the possibility of getting an owner-occupied dwelling. We can't base the system on young people having to get help from their parents to get their first apartment. It must be taken into account that not all housing buyers have access to two incomes. The extension and strengthening of the start-up loan scheme and more information on it can help facilitate the establishment of young singles on the housing market. One step on the road may also be to do something about the housing allowance scheme. An extension of this scheme may improve the situation on the housing market for single residents with the lowest income. Another important measure could be to change housing support legislation, such as: receive a separate rate for one-person households. The housing stock shall reduce the gap between the household income and the boutes. We know that housing costs weigh more heavily in the household economy for single residents than for people living in households where there are more. You also have to deal with the fixed bolt toxins. The single status brings with it a disadvantage in terms of fixed costs. And then we're into the municipal fees, which in most municipalities are dependent on households, not on consumption. Charges on water, sewerage and renovation, electricity network rental, insurance and newspaper subscriptions are some examples of costs that are the same whether there are one or more persons in the household. If we have a charging system that is more focused on consumption, this will mean that one-person households will not have to pay disproportionately – while at the same time promoting environmentally friendly behaviour. The main conclusion in terms of the single housing market situation, whether young people or older people, is that we need measures to reduce the cost of living. The most effective measures to improve the economic situation of one-person households are housing financing and various support schemes linked to living. We know that a lot of municipalities have already done a lot, and it's very good to be able to encourage others to follow this up. It is also important to listen to one-person households – to them themselves. They made a lot of good recordings when I was the Council of State and started working, and they probably have a lot more input to make.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e876	When I walk around Oslo as a representative of the people of Oslo, the thing I'm being stopped by most of them – whether I'm on the street, taking the walk, going on house visits or standing by – is this one. This is the injustice experienced when you belong to a group that is not on the political agenda. There has not exactly been a race against the pulpit today either, so I will probably be alone on this election campaign in Oslo this year as well. It might be nice for me, but that means you can't get this lifted. When we see a dramatic social development in an area where people choose a completely different form of housing from that of politicians – you live in a completely different form of housing than what is usually talked about in all political debate programmes, you choose your life’s seas, simply – I think it’s strange that it should affect the political agenda so little. We do not have a housing policy in which this is taken over, nor do we have a basic idea that this is a social change that will affect different policies, such as: health policy. This is a social change that is going to affect health policy when I'm going to hospital. When my father was in a nursing home, he ate for a year nothing that my mother did not put in his mouth. When all the lonely people who live alone today are going into the care of the elderly, what will that mean? Shouldn't you take it in? Aren't you going to look at the whole organization of our society in this area, or is this still going to be an area where you have a little bit of fun when you're talking about it? These are major societal changes that are not addressed in terms of policy-making, especially in the area of housing and health. This is a group that loses on the health page – and then we don’t think it’s important to discuss it! This is a group that really loses in income development and explodes in the poverty group – and we don't think it's interesting to discuss it! If we do not have this perspective in consumer law – in a consumer situation where we really want to control consumer law in relation to what is changing society, for example. in the case of technology – this is a theme that at least I'm going to promise that I'm going to raise it further, sail if not the pulpit is stormed by all parties. I think if we don't take this into account, then later we're like living in a family structure that doesn't exist, and then it won't be a good country to live in.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e887	I think that the discussion that Trine Skei Grade was going to raise at the end, about the impact this will have on the care of the elderly, on the health care system, in all welfare areas, is an important discussion. That is why I think it is important to have this indicator in several areas of society and in several social discussions. Clearly, when some older people have families who can care for them — who can give them human contact and who can provide follow-up every day — and others do not have it, it must have an impact on how we prioritise our resources in health care, so that some people get more support, more contact, than others. In this respect, volunteering plays a very important role, and it helps many lonely people to gain more social contact in everyday life. Cultural offers, of which Trine Skei Grande is concerned, are also important. I think there are many singles who have benefited from the cultural policy we have pursued and the cultural promise we have made over the last few years. It's also been a very good single policy. With regard to the Progress Party, I have noticed that whatever questions are asked in this Chamber, tax policy is the only answer they have. I have noticed that the Progress Party is running in Oslo, but when it comes to getting a charging policy that addresses the lonely situation, they have done nothing more there than elsewhere. It is a challenge that the representatives of the Progress Party can take to their party traps in Oslo. The representative, Bavøy, said strangely enough that I made the lonely ones poor. I'd say it's the opposite. Just because this group, as I said, is so diverse, we don't have to draw a general picture, that this is a weak group. On the contrary, we have to focus on the fact that someone needs more help than others. And I think we are just doing that with regard to the discussion about housing support. So we're increasing the number of people living alone who are getting support, by 30,000. It's a significant boost for many lonely people that we've now contributed to. So housing policy is definitely an area that strengthens the single situation, which many benefit from. Finally, I would like to thank the interpellant for an important discussion. Through her commitment, she has contributed to lifting this topic into more discussions. It is therefore the challenge of time to bring it into the mainstream of health policy, into the mainstreaming of older people’s policies and into cultural policy, which we now have on the agenda.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e902	So the debate is on case No. 3 ended.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e916	At the request of the Church, Education and Research Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e925	I would like to first of all thank the Committee for its excellent cooperation in this matter. The Committee has remained in the spirit of the church conciliation and has found good solutions to practical challenges. This case has its origin in the church agreement, where, among other things, it does. It was suggested that a democracy reform should be carried out in the Norwegian Church. One of the important elements of a successful reform in the Church was that one should be able to hold church elections at the same time as the major elections for the autumn. This agreement has been based on the Church, and it has taken the necessary decisions. What we've been waiting for is the proposition that is now under consideration: the funding of the church elections. The cost calculations on the part of the Church Council and those on the basis of the staging proposition are slightly different. In its time, the Council of Churches estimated that the cost of implementing the reform would be about 110 million. kr. In the proposition, a base of 68 million has been added. DKr, in addition to the 5 million allocated under the State budget — total 73 million. kr. The main difference in the proposals is that the Church has assumed that a wanted two broadcasts to the members of the Church in connection with the election, while the proposition assumes that one is contemplating one. In the Storting's open hearing on this matter, the Church did not point out that it was a challenge to use one broadcast to the members of the Church. Thus, the amount is not disputed. However, it is important to say that the allocation is given as a separate pot. Although there is a basis for calculating what the money is going to do, both the proposition and the setting have been very clear that money can be used across the calculation base and that there is a flexibility in the disposal of the money. This case shall be seen in the context of Ot.prp. No 34 for 2008-2009 on a legislative amendment to be addressed in Odelstinget later today. The setting is unanimous. The unanimous vote of the Committee is therefore recommended.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e942	First, I would like to pay tribute to the case rapporteur for a thorough examination of the matter in the committee, a procedure in line with the church agreement that was concluded in 2008. It is very gratifying that in the aftermath of the church settlement we can now go a step further with the introduction of a stronger church democracy. The motion for a resolution we are discussing today is, of course, a direct follow-up to the proposal for a reform of democracy in the Norwegian Church and our common wish that the Church should be given a freer position in relation to the state than is the case today. That today we're going to give 68 million. For the implementation of elections to church bodies, the Minister of Church Affairs has listened to the bodies of the Church in relation to the cost of carrying out the probation to be introduced into the harvest. In the state budget for this year, there are already 5 million. kr, and I feel confident that the choices can be made in a good way at the same time as the big shot for the autumn. I think this is exciting. If the Norwegian Church is to be the people's church we see it to be today, even in the continuation, the democratization reform we are now experiencing is absolutely necessary. People who are members of what we call the State Church today must have a real influence over who sits in the various church organs, if the Church is to have the credibility and the upliftment necessary to be a people's church – a people's church that takes on the development of a society that is becoming increasingly diverse, a church that addresses the challenges that will always be in a society. It is as important, in my view, as that the Church should be able to appoint its own leaders, even though it is a priority matter for the church organs and others. Later today, Odelstinget should treat Ot.prp. No 34 for 2008-2009, which deals with an experimental home in the Church Act and the mention of the Church Meeting’s decision on electoral rules. In the odelstingsproposition, the creation of a 12th bishop, who is pressed in the Norwegian Church, is also mentioned. The majority support the creation of a twelfth bishop and a twelfth bishopship to strengthen the press function. We believe that this will also strengthen church democracy by giving pressure better opportunities to raise debates in the Church, which will just strengthen the church democracy we are now taking another step towards developing. The open consultation in Stortinget has raised a number of concerns about the training of electoral staff and whether cooperation with municipalities is going to be good enough for one to carry out the elections in a good way. I think this will go well, but understand the concern. It is important that we increase the upsurge in these elections, both that they are well known to the members of the Norwegian Church, and that the availability and implementation of the elections are good. I trust that the Minister of the Church will also, in his contact with the Minister of Local and Regional Affairs, contribute to the functioning of the cooperation that must be between the Church and the Commune. It's necessary that we get even more attention on the choice of church organs than what we've seen up to now. I'm sure the release of the election cards will help. But cooperation with municipalities must also work in terms of information about the choice. Therefore, it is essential that the contact between the church and the municipality is good across the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e959	First, I would also like to thank the case rapporteur for a thorough review of what the Stortinget has unanimously agreed to. It's really not a great deal to add, except for one thing, which it's important to clarify. It is that many people are talking about democracy reform as if it were something new, that it has not been democracy in the Church in the past. It's got it, among other things. through the legalisation of the three-tier system and, in particular, the establishment of the Church Meeting in 1980. It was really called a democracy reform in its time, which it was. What we are discussing today, and to which the Storting now joins unanimously, are rules for making democracy more real, based on the consensus reached by the Stortinget on 10 April last year. I also want to pay tribute to the Council of State, because what is now coming to the Grand Council is a good follow-up to what we have agreed on, and I think it will help us to see increased electoral participation in church elections. There have been some practical discussions about the issue of one or two election cards etc., but I feel that this is less important now. The important thing is that we get the economy on the table to establish the electoral systems that are going to, hopefully also to increase the turnout, increase participation in church democracy, which is thus already established. We will come back to some questions regarding the matter we are going to discuss later in Odelstinget today. I therefore see no reason to go into any further discussion about this matter now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e970	The State Council of Churches will be liquidated in five to six years, if the next enlargement adopts the Constitutional Law on which there is a cross-political consensus and which is to be dealt with during the next enlargement. The motion for a resolution we are now considering is a consequence of the political settlement of the state church in its present form. I do not doubt that the opposition to the elections and the elections themselves – the Council of Ministers and the direct elections to the Council of Bishops – will be carried out in a good way. The church has gradually gained experience in direct elections to the councils. The fact that there is an electoral year, and these choices are being made at the same time as the decision-making process and in relation to the premises to be used for the decision-making process, gives reason to hope and believe that they will be implemented in a good way. There is also reason to hope and believe that the turnout will increase some. I might be a little bit more in doubt about how high voter participation we can hope and count on – maybe a doubling or a triple. It would be a good start. But there are several factors that make it a reason to be a little bit sober compared to the result we can expect. The voting rights of these elections are linked to membership, and then we must also accept that membership is allowed without requiring specific activities. Moreover, the democratic church has a relatively short history compared to the traditional church of civil servants. It takes time for membership to give rise to voting rights and not least to influence them. What the Church is going to look like, structurally and organisationally, is for me – and I expect for most here – reasonably unclear in the future. In the agreement, it is provided that the public is to finance the future church in line with other religious and life-view societies. What's the relationship with the municipalities going to be like in the future? Today we already have a municipal church to a greater extent than we have a state church, it is the municipalities that finance the Church to a large extent. That is why it may be more important than all election cards, information and voting that the church that is about to enter a whole new future is given the opportunity to try out different models of organisation. What should be the basis for some reflections here is whether we lock the Church into certain structures based on a church order to be dissolved, which should not be present in the future. There are great tensions in many places between the traditional Church of Officials and the democratic part of the Church. We have different employers – some have the council, some have the government as an employer. Here are several issues that need to be cleared up in the future against the new church that we will see in five to six years' time. The division and organisation of the councils, the relationship between the councils and the Council of Commons — all this needs to be developed and clarified in the future. It would have been interesting if the Church had the opportunity to use these five to six years that it has until the dissolution of the present state church system, to develop and make exciting attempts to find out what the future church should be like organisationally. I also believe that the relationship between employees and volunteering will put the future church on major challenges. We have to assume that the church that will emerge in a few years will need greater volunteering than today's church – at least if we compare with other religious and life-view societies that are in such a situation where they depend on a high degree of volunteering. Therefore, we should now facilitate this church to test out different forms of governance in the future, so that in five to six years' time a church can emerge that has found models that are exciting and forward-looking. My appeal is that a future should facilitate the possibility for the state church that we now have – which will not continue – to use the time to develop different governance models.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e989	It's not often I say what I'm going to say now – but this time the Council of State has actually delivered in a church case in line with what both the Church and the Stortinget have wanted. It's very good, and the council deserves praise this time. I hope we see the beginning of a new trend in which funds for important items on the church budget are not to be granted by the Church itself, but through fresh funds. We look forward to the future. There is also reason to pay tribute to the rapporteur, who has done a good job. I also want to boast of the church organs. Here Stortinget has been working at express speed, but this has meant that the church bodies too have had to move around to both deliver and make adjustments that will enable us to implement this reform. In inter-debate debates on democracy and the Church Agreement, it has almost seemed as if we are politicians who want this. But I want to stress from the pulpit here that democracy is something the Church itself has wanted and wants, and that's why, I think, we see the great commitment to having this accomplished. The proposal for supplementary appropriations is based on the fact that the ecclesiastical elections are conducted at the same time as the major elections on Monday 14 September 2009 and that it facilitates the location of the voting places in the ecclesiastical elections and the roll-call elections in close proximity to each other, that the elections be widely informed and that all voting members of the Norwegian Church receive a personal electoral card together with an information. I am pleased with the clarification given by an overall committee on how a discharge of the Church is to be made. There was some confusion at the beginning about the election cards – that the election cards would establish a new way of getting out of the Norwegian Church. It's now made clear that it's not. I want to stress, and I hope, that election cards will help to ensure the quality of church records in a good way. Of course, the individual who has been misregistered does not want to be on the register. Neither is the Church itself served to have members who do not want to be members. Now, a few requests through the card will allow you to resolve any errors so that they can be reported in the usual way. In the past, church elections have been largely carried out in earnest. Through the introduction of a working day as a compulsory election day, it is necessary to ensure a system of compensation for electoral officials. There may be grounds for further consideration of whether this has been adequately taken into account in the allocation currently on the table. One final element is the training of newly elected representatives in church bodies, for when the elections are completed, democracy must begin. This amounts to approx. Two million. kr. In the hearing, this was a moment that was pointed out. The Church Council has 1 million each year. for measures to improve skills, including: for members of the Joint Council and the General Council. Similarly, the Councils of Bishops usually implement the introduction rates for newly elected Councils and Councils of Commons of their ordinary budgets. It is important to see these funds together, so that newly elected members of various church bodies have the competence to perform their duties. In order to succeed in democratic reform, it is essential that elected members get a good grip on the work and that they feel that they have real influence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e1004	In short, this case is a follow-up to the excellent Church Agreement last year. It is a follow-up to the work of the Joint Committee on the budget for the current year. That's right, I'm going to say the same thing as I said here before: the government has delivered. And there's reason to give him credit for. It's a time for praise, and it's a time for shit. Then I have nothing more to say than that I think it is good that we have the money, and that the matter is this way. What to do is in the setting. And what's to be said in the next case, I'm going to say in the odelsting meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e1011	An important part, yes, perhaps the most central part – or key – of the church deal we made last year, was that a democratic reform should take place in the Church. It will create closer links between people and church, while providing more loose ties between state and church. The democratic reform and the implementation of church elections in 2009 will make it easier for church members to have an overview of enough to be attractive to participate in the elections, but it will also further develop the Norwegian Church as an open, inclusive and democratic people's church. I am therefore pleased that the Committee has supported the proposal to grant 68 million. kr for the 2009 democracy reform. There's already a 5 million budget. kr in the 2009 State Budget, so that the total budget for the reform of democracy will be as much as 73 million. kr. This appropriation allows elections to be made on the basis of the conditions laid down in the political agreement, in the suspension of the Bakkevig Committee and in the decision of the Church meeting on electoral procedures. It is the Council of Churches who will dispose of the funds and who is responsible for allocating the appropriations to the congregations where the elections are to take place. The proposal sets out a framework for the disposal of the appropriations for the various purposes and measures, while providing for some flexibility for the use of funds. It is important to provide broad information on the choices, so that voters can have real choices. The local choices need to be organised in such a way that we have the full effect of keeping them at the same time as the pottery choices. All church members shall receive a personal election card containing information on the elections and on the candidates they can vote for. It is an important measure that will both make the choices known and also provide the opportunity to correct errors in the membership register. Anyone who receives election cards, but believes that they are incorrectly listed as members of the church, can give feedback and get cleaned up in it. In the case of the Norwegian Church, the usual procedures will apply. The draft budget includes both the costs of producing and issuing election cards and the costs incurred in making mistakes in the membership register. After the 2009 elections, it is important that we have a thorough evaluation of the democratic reform. Experience from the 2009 elections will form the basis for future electoral arrangements and for further work on the church system and the development of relations between state and church. We will have research-based and broad evaluations of the 2009 elections. I see the Committee's position as a new expression of the constructive cooperation between the political parties on this matter. At the same time, I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to pay tribute to the solid work done so far from the church. This indicates that last year's political agreement is in place and that we will be able to implement the reform as we agreed. Today, the legal and financial framework for the reform will become clear. In parallel with this, the Norwegian Church is already well in the process of preparing and conducting the church elections. That's a big problem. The electoral systems are labour-intensive. Communication challenges are major. I have faith that this reform will make the members of the Church see the importance of giving voice and making choices, and that the whole reform will give us a church that is even better than today. I would also like to take the opportunity to thank the Commissioner for the appropriations. This is, of course, a very important reform, and there is a great deal of prestige in achieving this. It's one of the biggest changes in the Church's framework conditions in Norway ever, so it's important that we make good framework conditions around this. And this treatment promises well for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e1032	No one has asked for the word in reply. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[See page 2689]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e1048	The increase shall now be added to the case No. 1 and No 4 on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e1055	During the debate, 15 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1-12, by Jon Hunter Gåsvatn on behalf of the Advance Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 13 and 14, by Mr Jäger Gåsvatn, on behalf of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, on proposal No. 15, from Dagrun Eriksen on behalf of the Christian People's Party and the Left Proposal No. In the course of the debate, 1 has been converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal then reads as amended: ‘It is recommended to the Government to come back with proposals to ensure that the recognition procedures for the academic year abroad are improved and more predictable, and to ensure, in an appropriate manner, that advisers have up-to-date knowledge of exchange opportunities.’ The President proposes that the proposal be forwarded to the Government without a motion for a resolution. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e1088	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 14 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to make proposals to bring the Nordic Travel Grant up to full levels again.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e1102	Then the President will vote on proposal No. 11, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that students have access to the same loan and grant schemes for the ‘Freshman Year’ and the first year of Bachelor’s degree in non-Western countries and the United States as for other higher education taken abroad.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e1116	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 13 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to come back with proposals for students to have access to the same loan and grant schemes for the ‘Freshman Year’ in the United States and the first year of Bachelor’s degree in non-Western countries as for other higher education taken abroad, as a probationary scheme from the academic year 2009/2010 up to and including the academic year 2011/2012.’ The right, Christian People's Party and the left have announced that they are now substituting for this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e1133	The proposals are then put to the vote. 2-10 and proposal No. 12, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e1235	In Case No: 2 and 3 there is no voting theme.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-04-27.ana.ud2393e1396	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
