ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e30	The representative Sigvald Uppøen Hansen, who has been licensed, has again taken the seat. On Friday 29 May, the Christian People's Party Group submitted an application for permission from the representative Åse Gunhild Woie Duesund to take part in the inauguration of the European Wergeland Centre in Oslo as a member of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Kjell Ingolf Roupstad, is called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e53	Kjell Ingolf Ropstad is present and will take the seat. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that matters be referred to the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. 1 and 2 are dealt with as a whole – and consider it adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e80	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is proposed that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to three minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e89	Political television advertising is a topic that has been debated on several occasions in Stortinget. We started this period with the government reversing the bourgeois parties' proposal to allow such advertising and instead decided that the advertising ban would still apply. The background to the big message that the government is now promoting – and I dare include the representative proposal from the Left – has its history back to the election campaign in 2003 when the TV West chose to send advertising to the Pensionist Party in Rogaland. The TV West was charged a fee for violations of the Broadcasting Act. The voting state, lost all the court rounds in Norway, but won out in Strasbourg. In the judgment of the Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg, the premise is that advertising was the only possibility for the Pensioner Party to receive TV coverage. It's not a judgment that's about the ban on advertising in general. The government follows up the judgment with two greps — both a plugin in the NRK poster and an agreement with the Free Channel. The bourgeois parties are mainly in favour of political television advertising and of measures taken by the Government. The setting is therefore transparent in the sense that if one is for advertising, one is against other measures. The different arguments for and against this kind of advertising are well known, and are they the same today as they were when the case was the last one to be dealt with. The working party, together with the SV and the Centre Party, will present the changes proposed in the NRK plaque. The NRK poster shall express the expectations, requirements and guidance of the State that owns the NRK. It is exactly the same way that other owners of other media companies also have demands, expectations and leadership for their companies. In 2003, when TV West sent the advertisement, we had no NRK poster. So today's a different reality than that. The NRK itself says as it is referred to in the message: ‘Parties that list more than half of the counties at the Grand elections or in several municipalities at the municipal elections will normally be covered during the election campaign.’ It's a neat and orderly arrangement and a good basis for the plugin in the poster submitted by the government. Someone thinks it's interfering with the editorial freedom of the NRK. Of course it isn't. The size has come through the NRK poster with many leads of different kinds. There should be provision for children and young people, there should be Norwegian music and different music. It's an editorial question, not a political one, what's being sent on children's television, about the NRK's ability to send the Norwegian peak – although the Progress Party thinks it's a natural matter for the Stortinget to decide – and how the NRK plans and implements election batteries, queries and what they need to prioritise in the election campaign. It's completely up to the broadcaster what kind of editorial option NRK does. That responsibility belongs to there and no other place. There is also a change in reality since 2003 when the Government has made sure that the Editorial plaque, where these principles are laid down, is now legal. The second thing we do is the Free Channel in the last three weeks before a choice should give priority to the political parties if there is a need and there is little need for broadcasting surfaces. The Free Channel is a democracy project. They're going to continue with what's always been the idea of a non-commercial team, organizations and those who want to be on television. In the context of elections, then, policy must be given priority. Someone thinks there's something new that's been coming up for 12 hours. No, it isn't. It is stated in the message, and it is not least in the setting that Stortinget treats when the digital background set was adopted in 2004. It is good that the Government has taken the initiative to improve the distribution for the Free Channel. There will be a strength if even more people are given access to the channel. In the debate that has been on this subject, one of the impressions has been that freedom of speech in Norway can only be feared if political television advertising is allowed. It is enough – and fortunately so – that freedom of expression is stronger than that. That someone thinks there is too little advertising and wants more, is okay enough. That someone wants to make good money on this advertisement and for that is for, is also okay. The Labour Party believes that the freedom of expression is weakened by this advertisement. They'll be the ones with the biggest money interests in their back, the ones with the biggest resources, that will escape and dominate. If it should nevertheless prove that it is the advertisement that is the salvation of freedom of speech, all those who are strong supporters should do everything they can to show this advertisement, but without payment. It's perfectly legal today, but it's not being done. When it doesn't happen, I think the assessments are of an economic nature, and maybe this advertisement is not well-suited if it's the freedom of expression that counts, and one's busy. The majority join the proposals of the Government and therefore – naturally – oppose the proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e122	Following the judgment of 11 December 2008 in the European Court of Human Rights, the EMD, on political advertising in Norwegian television, the Council of State of the Ministry of Culture and the Church was given the supervisory urgency. The judgment was known in December 2008. The NRK poster was last examined in the Stortinget in February 2009, and now again, in May 2009, with a proposal for an addendum to point 1(b) of the poster. Although the ministry expresses their disagreement in the judgment, they now find it right to make a change, an addition to the NRK poster, in the hope of meeting the judgment. This, in my opinion and in the opinion of the Advancement Party, which winged the handling of the judgment in the EMD reinforces the impression that you are left with, that even the Government realizes that one here has a weak case. The Progress Party believes that the proposal that the Government is now promoting appears to be a claim from an owner to the editorial and will thus, in our opinion, be contrary to the law of editorial freedom in the media. The Progress Party will at all times distance itself from all attempts at detailing the content of the individual editorial work. In some countries such political governance of the media is practised, and the Progress Party will strongly distance itself from being introduced into Norway. The proposal that the Government here wants to adopt adds to a detailed regulation of the political content, not only in the NRC, but also in the Free Channel. This is, once again in our opinion, an intervention in freedom of expression. The proposal seeks to govern freedom of expression by means of dictatorship and not by means of trust, which the Progress Party stands for. The Progress Party further believes that the change proposed by the Government in the NRK poster is not in line with the judgment of the EMD. With the above-mentioned background, the Progress Party will oppose the proposed changes to the NRK poster. I guess Innst. S. No 236 will be part of the same debate, and this is a matter of repetition for the Progress Party. The ban imposed by Section 3-1 of the Broadcasting Act today on advertising for life views and political messages on television has been lifted on several occasions, as this ban, in our opinion, represents a restriction on freedom of expression. The judgment of 11 December 2008 in the European Court of Human Rights now states that this prohibition or other dictatorship that may come from the Government, which will restrict freedom of expression, is illegal and that this judgment must have the effect that the Norwegian total ban on political advertising must cease. In a modern society, in a democracy, freedom of expression is a fundamental value. As stated in Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights [[1]] Let me take some of the arguments of the majority of the committee who want to maintain the ban. There won't be as much equivalent terms of opinion as possible, it's claimed. In the minority’s proposal, this has been addressed through the wording ‘including proposals for regulations ensuring freedom of expression’. This also applies to the arguments that show that it will be very costly and thus only for resource-intensive organisations. I guess no one in this room wants to tie the freedom of expression to resource-intensive organisations by not expressing their opinion. Other arguments which may be raised against the lifting of the ban include: TV advertising for political messages could give a distorted picture of complex issues, etc. Finally, I would like to address the proposal to the minority in the Committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e145	The representative of Georg Indrevik has addressed the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e148	Not long ago we treated the NRK poster here in this room. The important points were then the integrity of the NRK and that we should not use the NRK as a political instrument for objectives that are not on a general and general level. There should be a broad and fundamental uproar. Therefore, when the Government by this crossroads proposes to introduce a change of the poster based on a concrete and controversial political need, this is fundamentally unfortunate and an example of circumstances that should not be the basis of future changes to the poster. The background is, of course, what has now been debated: the judgment of the Human Rights Court on political television advertising. After the verdict became known, and the government decided not to appeal, which would have been the natural thing if one were to go further with the case, we have seen a rare creativity in relation to possible dangerous ways of bypassing it that virtually all the competent environments, except the Government, agree, namely, that the total prohibition of this type of opinion is contrary to freedom of expression and thus against human rights. On the right, the obvious conclusion after the judgment would have to be to lift the total ban, rather than to look at the framework under which the parties and organisations would be able to express themselves through the time purchased on TV. Now this is probably not so strange, as far as the Right for a long time has thought that this type of advertising should be allowed. The prohibition is illogical and inconsistent with the way in which the parties carry out their information activities for the rest — through the purchase of space in the public space, in advertisements such as: At the same time, the Right has also previously considered that the prohibition is fundamentally objectionable to freedom of expression. But regardless of whether you have to disagree with us in this, I think it is striking what effort is being put into such a small matter as a regulated political television advertising could be. First, you put the integrity of the NRK into play by trying to clear leadership on the channel's election coverage. Luckily, the broadcaster mates this so clearly that this alleged solution now appears in everyone's eyes to be what it is – a flop. It's no shame to turn, it's called. There would have been a good idea in this case. Instead, they were still creative and came to the new solution, namely state-purchased time in the Free Canal. ‘Worse and worse,’ said the bitch, ‘her honor was supposed to be’. Not only does the government believe that freedom of expression is supposed to be preserved through purchased time in a rather marginal channel, but it also opens up half-hour programs in the only channel in Norway that do not have a real editor in terms of content. In addition, once again, the volunteering arena is used as an instrument of its own policy, and it is linked to what everyone expected would be a general grant item above the government budget, to an agreement with clear commitments to the state. Governments often talk about arm's length. Here we are talking about direct intervention, not only in a media company, but also in a cultural institution that would obviously have these appropriations on the state budget anyway, at least in some order of magnitude. The right-hand proposal in this regard was that masterless inheritance should fall to the Free Canal. In that way, funds could have happened without any suspicion of political leadership. Here you don't just worry about the suspicion; here you smack with an agreement that adds clear leadership. Last but not least, this is also becoming a rather special issue for Norway in the international picture. Our obvious role in international policy must be to restrain human rights and freedom of expression in a world where this is not obvious in many countries. That we put so much effort into turning ourselves away into a matter that could have been settled in a simple way! You could have given a fixed transmission time, limited to some extent by some regulations, and solved the whole matter, but no, that way you won't go. One turns away from all possible procuratorisms in order to avoid meeting this clearly stated claim from the Human Rights Court. It gives us a rather poor starting point when we with other countries are going to deal with issues that concern major and serious issues. From this point of view, the Right is behind the proposal that has been put forward, namely that political television advertising should be allowed in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e171	The background to the case we are dealing with here today is a judgment of the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg, where the State lost the case against the TV West on political advertising. The basic premise for the verdict was that political advertising was the only possibility for the party to get TV coverage. The government disagreed with the judgment, but did not choose to request the case sent to the EMD Grand Chamber. The Christian People's Party believes the Government should have appealed the verdict. Instead, the Council of State chose to use instruments which, in the view of the Christian People's Party, are highly questionable. We agree that there should still be a ban on political advertising. In this case, the Council of State has not only messed it up by itself – only when the appeal period had expired, the Council of State chose to announce the decision not to appeal. Then it was too late for Stortinget to consider this option. So the Government's proposal for a solution was to make a change to the NRK poster. The proposal for a change that we are dealing with today has not been on the verge of consultation, which would be quite natural in these kinds of cases. During the hearing in the committee, it was found that the NRK was first made aware of the matter the same week as the decision was taken in the ministry. It's very eye-catching. At the request of the Committee on this matter — yes, in fact two days before its release — the Committee became aware of the new approach of the Council of State to the Free Channel. This has been a very unfair process, and the conclusions that have been drawn cannot support the Christian People's Party. The essence of the matter is, no matter how you turn it around, that the Council of State is now proposing an instrument that violates the fundamental principle of editorial freedom. Yes, the Christian People's Party has previously supported the main lines of the NRK poster. It shall specify frameworks at an overall level. At the same time, we have expressed our concern, including in comments, that the poster can be used as an increasingly detailed management tool. The supplement now proposed differs from the rest of the poster because it directly intervenes in news editorial priorities. Less than a year ago, Stortinget passed the law on editorial freedom in the media. The proposal for the amendment of the NRK poster is a far stronger guide to the political journalism of the editorial board than is regulated by this law. The Council of State has claimed that the supplement is unproblematic because the instruction corresponds to what the NRK would have done anyway. This is a strange logic. It is irrelevant whether the proposal is identical to the NRK’s own priorities. The central thing is that the political journalism of the NRK must not be given leadership that is contrary to editorial independence. In addition, if the instruction does not mean any real change in the selection coverage, the instruction has no effect. It is then a questionable instrument for meeting the demand of the European Court of Human Rights. If, on the other hand, the instruction has a real effect, yes, it can rightly be argued that important principles of governance are broken. If smaller lots complain about the coverage of the NRK to the Media Authority and fail to comply, the Ministry is the Board of Appeal. If the ministry meets the complaint — yes, then the NRK is overrun. But if no complaint is met — yes, then the instruction is worthless. I think most people understand that we can't have it like this, including the Council of State, I think, since he recently proposed measures related to the Free Channel. It was creative, but also in the case of the Free Channel, there remain unresolved questions. In the newspaper on 13 May, the Director of the Media Authority says that ‘the free channel as a political television channel may have implications for the evaluation of political advertising by the Media Authority’. I believe this should have been more thoroughly illuminated at an earlier time. Today, there is a new look in the Newspaper on whether policy elements in the Free Channel can allow for racist entries. In this case, one has to make different balances. As I said, the Christian People's Party supports the Government in its view of political advertising on television. But the process and handling of this matter is under any criticism. In addition, the instruments proposed are highly questionable. In addition, the Government allowed appeals to go away. It shouldn't have done that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e188	In the hearing on this matter, it was said that freedom of expression is not a seasonal work. Sense if this matter may seem strange and sometimes something to be laughable about, this is actually a quite serious matter. Norway has received a ruling against it in the Human Rights Court, and it is then to be enforced by a government that has proved itself to be wrong in all important cases of principle. Whether it is blasphemy or hijab, this government has had problems – so also in this case. First of all, the content of the matter: it is very funny that one should be so much more damaged by an advertisement film sent on a TV screen than by the advertising films you see on a PC screen. Controlling media content from which platform the films are delivered is quite prehistoric. There's no reason to say that one film is harmful, while the other film is not harmful. The second is that it is, in principle, quite wrong that the state can today advertise its campaigns, while the person who disagrees with the state should not have the same freedom of expression in its campaigns. And that's where we're at the heart of the matter; it's freedom of expression in Norwegian society. Because opening up political advertising doesn't mean that everyone should be allowed to advertise, that actually means that it's the editor's poster in the different media that decides, as it is with every other expression, of course. Then arguments have been put forward that it will lead to so much inequality. Yes, the council said the same thing to the day he decided not to complain, that he did not realize that the Left was for this, because we could not possibly profit from this. Yes, we in the Left have principles too when we don't serve on it. The differences between the political parties are absolute today. They're there every day. When Siv Jensen goes to the Chair of the Advance Party, the Advance Party can place half a page's ad in the VG that one can go on-line and hear Siv Jensen. We in the left would wish we could have done that too, but it's not like that. But that doesn't mean we'll forbid the Progress Party to do that. That's what's the basic idea of freedom of expression and democracy and all this, and that's where the whole thing conflicts. That inequality is there every day. The large batches can advertise on a full page in the VG, half-page in the VG – and it costs a lot more than the small commercials you can have on the TV West, as the Pensioner Party has. But that doesn't mean that one should forbid the opinion. It is also possible to regulate advertising, as we do. We regulate all forms of advertising in Norwegian society. You could have done that here, too, and you should have done it, in relation to, for example, one sentence shall not be able to purchase the entire transmission surface. In fact, none of them participated in the hearing, who supported the conduct of the government here. The NRK has asked their knees not to change the NRK poster so often. The team of journalists made it clear in the hearing that the change that is now being proposed is breaking with the Editor's poster. What the government is now doing is that either the change in the NRK poster works – that means they're breaking the Editor's poster – or the change doesn't work, and that means they're breaking the judgment in relation to the Human Rights Court. So no matter what the change here has led to, it's wrong. And the second, cramping – at the end – good idea that was about to come was to instruct the Free Channel, which was supposed to be the channel of the free organizations, and to say that their money support depended on them saving the Government out of this court judgment. It's an equally serious violation of the Free Channel. In addition to being afraid of the consequences of the big bad political advertising, one then opens a free channel that is not covered by the Editor's poster. Then one takes away one control one has in that area, if one has a desire to protect the people from the evil political advertising. No, this isn't really about political advertising or not. This is about incredibly bad political craftsmanship in a very important area, namely the fight for freedom of expression in Norwegian society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e205	I just have to say that there are a few debates I've been so happy about as the one we're going to have now, because finally we can get the opposition's positions out in the open and try to see if we can get a logical relationship in them. There are two issues that are being addressed at the same time. One is the question of whether political television advertising should be allowed in Norway. I am pleased to note that there is a majority in the Stortinget, and broader than the red-green parties, who want to maintain the ban on political television advertising in Norway. The red-green parties, together with the Christian People's Party, stand on what has been the majority in the Grand Duchy for all years, namely that this should not be allowed, with the reason that we have always had, that this will lead to a huge spiral of costs in politics and that, with the greatest money resources, they will have the greatest freedom of expression at the expense of the small ones, make politics more money-dependent and make us politicians have to spend a lot more of our time collecting money instead of doing our most important job, that is, caring for the interests of the voters and building society better. We've been on this all along. In Stortinget today, we are told that this is established. Of course, it will be at the root of the government's further work, and it will certainly also, I suppose, be the basis of the further work of the Media Authority that the Stortinge once again determines that the law is in place. Then we have received a judgment in the European Court of Human Rights, which concludes – let's also include it – that the previous government in 2003 had not adequately protected freedom of expression in Norway, because the Media Control intervened against an advertisement sent by the Pensionist Party on the TV West in the 2003 election campaign. Our counterparty in this case systematically argued with – just like the Left, and others, from the pulpit – that it was the very principle of banning political television advertising that was wrong. There should be no discrimination in advertising between the various media forms; television, newspapers, the Internet, etc. should be equated. You didn't get through that. It was lost in all Norwegian courts, including the Supreme Court. So where Olemic Thommess has it from that all legal experts disagree with the Government, I don't know. It was also lost in the European Court of Human Rights because the judgment does not state that the principle of equal treatment of advertising in all platforms is accepted. On the contrary, it is said that the State — Norway — has good arguments for maintaining such a ban. And to go further: the Norwegian judge in the European Court of Human Rights – to have legal expertise in this matter, it would be thought that it was a very close person to quote – writes in its deepening, perfectly worded, that it is not the prohibition of political advertising as such that is problematic in this case, but that in 2003 the Pensionist Party did not relax in editorial terms, and therefore had to use political television advertising as its only opportunity to speak on television. This is perhaps as much a sentence on the press as a sentence on the state, because media that actually have as its fantastic publicity platform to contribute to freedom of expression in Norway is given a conclusion in the Human Rights Court in Strasbourg that the freedom of expression in Rogaland in 2003 was so poor that it was actually necessary to get out of the Pensionist Party with political television advertising. Then one argues beautifully from the TV Evening Magazine and others that this is about freedom of speech. Well, they can solve this case in a second by dropping the Retirement Party into editorial space. But that solution has not been a current issue. On the other hand, the freedom of expression is to be resolved by releasing the Pensioners' Party against payment. It is a touching concern for freedom of expression. The state is doing a lot for freedom of expression. We have legalized it in the Constitution. We have legalized editorial freedom. We give billions of support to the press, and we spend over $4 billion a year on the NRK. This is to ensure freedom of expression. Then we have to take the consequence that freedom of expression is not good enough. So let's do that in two ways. That's not what Skei Grande says, that we've come up with in retrospect. Everything is in the message. We strengthen the NRK poster and hence the responsibility of the NRK to get rid of small parties. What we write in the NRK poster is in line with NRK's own plans, so some particular violation of editorial freedom in the NRK I can hardly see that it is. So someone says that then it doesn't change anything. No, it doesn't change any of the plans for 2009, but it changes what happened in 2003. The second thing we're doing is we're making sure that small parts are released on the Free Channel. It should be in everyone's interest to ensure freedom of expression for small parties in this way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e222	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e225	I understand that the government council and I may not agree on exactly the advertising issue, but this matter that the government has advanced is about the NKR poster, and I hope that we can agree on something. It concerns the circumstances in which or how the NRK poster should be used. When we discussed the NRK poster, it was important that it lay on a general and general level. This has been a long discussion over many years, i.e. about how big and government could have a debate on the NRK, how to give a social mission and at the same time keep the integrity and editorial freedom of the NRK – that is, how to have what should be a good distance. The problem with this case is that it is hard to understand as anything but a play from the Government to get out of a completely concrete political problem, and that puts this provision, even though it is generally designed, in a special light. Does the Council of State think that there is a useful framework for changing the poster in the future?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e235	Yeah, that's exactly what I'm talking about. The Strasbourg Court has held that freedom of expression in Norway for small parties is not good enough. The question we're asking is, how can we improve the freedom of small parties' freedom of expression? I understand that the Right Party and the Advance Party, who have always worked for political television advertising, would wish that they could use this judgment to force through something they do not get a majority for in the Stortinget. I get that. But we are solving what is at the heart of this problem: not political television advertising, but freedom of expression for small parties, know among other things. strengthening the NRK plaque in this area. To quote what we propose, and to which Stortinget now joins, and to clarify what is going to become the statutes of the NRK in June: ‘The NRC shall have a broad and balanced coverage of policy choices. All lots and lists of a certain size are normally mentioned in the editorial electoral coverage.» I can hardly see any more important part of the NRK's social mission than facilitating freedom of expression, debate and information about elections in Norway. This is at the heart of a public broadcasting mission, and the public broadcasting mission is at the heart of the fact that we've financed the NRC.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e247	I'm a little shocked by the Council of State's concern for the opportunity of the small parties to advertise. I wonder if the Council of State in the future will see that he will also be able to regulate other forms of advertising, such that Siv Jensen's half-page in the VG can then be stopped, or that we can be assured to have a half-page in the VG when we have a country meeting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e252	In many countries, there is a discussion about restrictions on gifts of money to political parties. Even the United States has some bounds on it, even though the limits may be in the billions class. But at least what we do not want is an additional spiral of costs in the political struggle. One thing is the political parties, but one can imagine political struggles on other issues. I can use as an example the battle for oil drilling in vulnerable areas. Who do you think has the most money to implement a comprehensive political TV campaign to win through with their vision – the oil companies, which have billions of profits to fetch if you get through, or the environmental movement? The pharmaceutical industry could be taken, labour rights could be taken, etc. Here, a system will be set up to ensure that, with the great interests of money, they win the political battle at the expense of the freedom of expression of small people. We don't want to do that, even though the Workers' Party would probably have made it in that round dance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e259	The Council of State strongly argued that the reason he wanted to stop this – as I understood it – was that it was the rich and those with great resources that would then get away with it. It was about political advertising, of which he was concerned. But this also applies to the advertising of life's vision, and I would rather allow myself to call it an information about life's vision and political information or political exchange in the media. The proposal for a minority in the Committee reads ‘including proposals for regulations ensuring freedom of expression’. So my question to the Council of State is if not the Council of State as a member of a party that is very concerned with regulations, should be able to regulate this so that not only the rich did not.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e266	Let me first just make it clear that we have no plans for any further restrictions on the political struggle in relation to the monetary interests. Our goal is not to increase the differences between the money lovers and those who don't have that much money. And, as I said, the Progress Party and the Right in particular have been thinking the opposite for many years, I think is almost a logical consequence, precisely that this will benefit the strong. I have a little bit more difficulty understanding the Left's position. I'm absolutely convinced that if we open this gate, we're in a slide. Why should we allow the political parties and not other political organisations? It will be the next debate. Why shouldn't we give access to companies, big organizations that organize businesses? It's going to be the next debate. I believe that the limit we have now is understandable, it's easily understandable, and it's easily manageable. Then we release the small parties through the Free Channel, through the fact that the NRK has a greater responsibility to let them go, and then we guarantee freedom of expression for all, not just for those with the largest wallet.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e273	The Christian People's Party is in agreement with the Council of State, we do not want political advertising. We're some people in that goal. But I wonder very much about the process that has been going on, and I wonder why the Council of State has not seen a more thorough work going on before the deadline to appeal. This was known on the same day that the deadline expired, and we have recorded through hearings here in Stortinget that the NRK was pulled into this process very late, and the Free Channel completely on the tap, two days before we were going to submit the setting. The state council had the long time on it from the outcome of the verdict was ready, to find good solutions. So I wonder, why hasn't the process been better, and why wouldn't you complain?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e280	The reason why we don't anchor is because we don't have to appeal. The judgment gives full freedom to keep the ban on political television advertising, if we ensure that the freedom of expression of small parties is guaranteed. When we concluded with this, the question was not to appeal or not, but that was how we secured this freedom of expression. I note that the Christian People's Party is very much in agreement with our thinking, but perhaps we should look at other instruments and go into it more thoroughly. I fully accept that. But I want to say that when you ask for a hearing, for example. Thus, on the changes made by the NRK plaque, the system was until we – this government – introduced the NRK poster, that the general assembly in the NRK, that is, the Minister of Culture, sovereignly defined these conditions in the General Assembly. For example, when my predecessor decided that the NRK should have a broadcasting orchestra, which is also an intervention in the freedom of the NRK, she did it sovereignly in a general meeting, without a big deal, without a hearing, without a discussion. The fact that it's actually sent to Stortinget, being discussed in the open, is a huge improvement in the process around the conditions for the public broadcaster NRK.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e287	I'd like to pursue that very thing. The state council said in its statement here that what he is now implementing in the NRK poster is just what is NRK's policy. We asked the head of the NRK in the hearing, and he said this was not a change he wanted. The editors' association said in the hearing that there is a fundamental difference between an editor's principle and when his principles become an instruction. This, as the Council of State is now doing, is a violation of both the Editorial Association, the Journalist team, the National Association of Media Companies, and what the NRK said they wanted. So how can that principle be so much higher? Or is it that the head of the NRK in the hearing says wrong things to us?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e292	No, I believe the head of the NRK is being abused by those who want political TV advertising, because the head of the NRK says that this will not change what we intend to do in 2009. That's right. But that will change what the Strasbourg Court believes was the case in 2003, and that is what we need to do better. How are small parties in Norway to be guaranteed freedom of expression, better freedom of expression than was the case in 2003? We have just processed a NRK poster that is full of detailed instructions for NRK – 35 pst. Norwegian music. It's an editor's freedom to decide what's going to be played by music, but at least we've ordered the NRK to send 35 pst. Norwegian music. The opposition, when we dealt with the NRK poster, meant that the NRK had to make sure to pass on the Christian heritage in Norway. It's an editorial question whether to send the Christian heritage or not. There are even magazines in Norway where the owners have decided that they should only write about ponni. It's a restriction of editorial freedom, that. But an owner can actually set these conditions for a media company. A public broadcaster has not only the possibility, but there is the condition for being a public broadcaster and receiving licence funding that they have these conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e299	This means that the cord shift is over. Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 1 and 2. [[Votation, see below]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e309	The size goes to voting in case No. 1 and 2.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e316	Olemic Thommessen – explanation of vote
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e319	After listening to this debate, the Right, Left and Christian People's Party will vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e341	During the debate, Mr Indrevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to promote a case that opens up the advertising of life views and political messages in all media, including proposals for regulations ensuring freedom of expression.’ Alternatively, this proposal will be replaced by the Committee's decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-05-29.ana.ud78e381	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word under Section 37(a) of the Rules of Procedure before the sitting is cancelled? – Before the meeting is cancelled, the President will take the opportunity to thank the Stortinget for the cooperative cooperation and attitude of this President over the last four years. - The meeting's been cancelled. [[Applause from the Chamber]]
