ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e26	The representative, Rigmor Andersen Eide, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e29	I'm sorry, but I forgot to take it with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e34	We have the proposal, if the representative wants to come here and read it out.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e37	It's important to be honest, President. On behalf of the representatives Knut Arild Hareide, Kjell Ingolf Ropstad and myself, I would like to make a proposal to ensure that Telenor's shared company Vimpelcom does not establish itself in the tax haven of Bermuda.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e44	The representative, Hans Frode Kielland Asmyhr, will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e47	On behalf of the representatives of Solvency Horne, Per Sandberg, Åse Michaelsen, Morten Ørsal Johansen and myself, I would like to make suggestions on the chemical castration of the pedophile convicted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e52	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e74	On Monday, the Storting received notice from the Prime Minister's office that the following government councils will meet for oral Question Time: State Council Sigbjørn Johnsen State Council Anne-Grete Stroem-Erichsen State Council Terje Riis-Johansen The announced members of the government are present, and we are ready to start the oral question procedure. The representatives who, in addition to the pre-announced representatives, would like to ask questions of substance. The first main question will be asked by Per Arne Olsen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e93	My question is to the Health Council. For me and for many other newly elected representatives in this Chamber, it is now approaching the end of the year's budgetary procedure and our first budgetary procedure. It has been a teaching and exciting time, but also a time of surprises. As a long-standing local politician, I have always thought that politicians, like ombudsmen, should listen to recordings from citizens, organisations and voters. As rapporteur, I spent a lot of time doing this, which undoubtedly led to a better policy and better provision for the citizens. Not least I learned a lot myself in these processes. We have just had a wide-ranging consultation on the State budget, where over 70 organisations spent considerable resources preparing and working to make representations to the Health Committee. They were based on the effects of the government budget proposal that the government had submitted. We've actually been sitting and listening to recordings for 24 hours, divided into several days. What surprises me is that the government fraction has not moved on a single penny in the health budget. It must have been clearly informed that the budget would remain unchanged. This means that a number of good measures that had not cost much money will not be realised next year. It was measures that had definitely made Norway a better place to be for a number of people. My question to the Council of State is therefore: Is it that the Workers' Party has not listened to one of these recordings, an expression of power arrogance, or is it that none of the organizations were worth listening to?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e108	It is not at all that the Workers' Party does not listen to organisations or individuals. The government is working on the budget during more or less the whole year. Especially in the spring, we're working on budgeting. Then we listen carefully to the recordings that come during the budgetary process. It's also been done now. It's also done the big fraction in Stortinget. You've had a dialogue. I have also been informed of that dialogue as the responsible State Council. Some of the recordings that have been made have been included through annotations. It's clear that there's something leading the budgets. So it's like when a budget is about. 130 billion kroner, a lot has been added. There's a lot that's been done, but there's also a lot that's being done in the course of the year. Of course, in terms of the recordings that have been made, the leads that have been posted, we also look at them. I would like to stress strongly that we are listening to those who are coming, including in the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e117	It is possible that the Workers' Party is listening, but I think those who are at the hearings and have good suggestions, would have preferred not to just listen, but actually did something with all the recordings that are coming. The whole point of the consultation process is that the budget submitted is recorded. It does not help to involve the process, for the hearings carried out by the committees, to hear what all these organisations think about the submitted state budget, and that is what you should take into account. I record that you've listened, and I'm excited about which of the signals came, which are included in next year's government budget. I could imagine asking the Council of State the following additional questions: Does she sympathize with her own party traps that have to conduct long hearings, knowing that they are not allowed to take any of the recordings into account?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e124	That's actually not how we work politically in the work between the Government and the Stortinget. We have very good dialogue with our fraction and with the major fraction in Stortinget. It is also the case that if the Progress Party reads the budget position of the Stortinget, he will see that there are also leading points in it that will, of course, be taken into account, which have been taken into account when it comes to the governance that I have as the Council of State, for example. to health establishments and in a number of other areas indicated in the budget. So we have a good dialogue, a good interaction, because the work that the Storting is doing is important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e129	There is an opportunity to ask follow-up questions – first Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e132	One thing is that the government parties do not at all listen to the hearing bodies. It is more serious that the government does not follow the decision to raise the issue. One example of many people is in the VG today. It was cut in the manning of maternity wards, and the offer to women and newborns is getting worse – in part irresponsible. So birthing women are a salutation post in a number of maternity wards. This is despite the fact that the Stortinge said a few months ago that this was totally unacceptable, and asked the Minister of Health and Health to stop the birth announcement and demand that regional health companies do not undergo economically motivated changes that lead to poorer offers. Yet it happens. What does the Council of State think about what's going on? What will she do to stop such irresponsible cut in the offer of birth and child?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e137	With regard to the look-up in VG today, I would like to say that I am concerned that those who are going to be born at Aarhus in 2010 will have an offer as good as those who are giving birth there today. That's what's the starting point. So is it that when some hospitals spend too much money one year, it becomes a matter for the regional health company. So this has to be solved in collaboration with Health Southeast. What is quite clear is that the offer to the birthers should be good. It shall be sound. It is not that this is an irresponsible offer. It shall be sound. I assume that, and that is the responsibility of Health South-East to implement it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e144	Jon Jäger Gåsvatn – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e148	During the hearings, we met with the Church's Social Service, which operates with follow-up and after-care for addicts and has institutions in the fields of child protection, psychiatry and the development of people with disabilities. They could do a lot of good work with 13 million. kr i plus. Children of drug users are an organisation that focuses on establishing a comprehensive assistance service for children and young people who have parents with drug problems. Two million. kr would mean a lot to them. WayBack is doing excellent volunteer work to help convicted people in their lives after acquittal to prevent relapses. Two million. kr here would have corrected the cut they experienced in 2008. It seems that the government believes that the sense is not equally distributed in the government quarter and in the majority of this room. The size is, after all, all the granting authority, but the majority have not had a single crown to move on, even though the measures have never been so good. Does the Council of State not see that almost a merciless and almost power-provoking budgetary procedure to which we have witnessed can be directly de motivating to those who are operating such good offers within the ideal sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e157	In the case of children of drug users, there is a focus area for the Government. It's a very important area. These are very important measures. As far as the budgetary procedure is concerned, it takes place largely early in the year, in the spring. It's not like that, which I obviously have to repeat, that we don't listen to recordings coming. But it is also the case that the treatment of the large budget that this is about is going on in the spring, and our dialogue with the Stortinge is good. Many organisations are engaged in important work for drug addicts and their families, and receive money from the Ministry of Health and Welfare.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e164	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e167	The National Association of Psychiatrics, LPP, took up the situation in mental health protection in consultation with the Health and Care Committee at Stortinget. They are very concerned about cutting bed figures before alternative offers are ready for mental illness. They also call for further designation and believe that without clear control of money usage, we are at risk of allowing health business economists to decide which of the worst patients should be offered. This also concerns the Christian People's Party, and we have proposed further earmarking of funds for mental health even after the escalation plan. We are now seeing a slowdown after a successful escalation. I believe these organizations who were in the hearing feel that they are not being heard and believed. Does this impress the Council of State? Will she still let it scour and go and hope for the best? It's dramatic what's happening in mental health. I only received three enquiries yesterday. Every day we receive enquiries about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e172	Clearly, those who struggle with mental health are in a serious situation. It makes an impression. At the same time, I would like to stress that this is a sector where considerable funds have been spent over 10 years in the escalation plan, from 1998 to 2008. It's spent NOK 6.4 billion more on operations. There is an investment of SEK 9.2 billion in, among other things. 75 district psychiatric centers. Much has been done to facilitate better outpatient treatment, more outpatient treatment — including outpatient treatment. I have to say, I'm glad that 84 pst. By the municipalities — at least according to a survey — they say they will spend more on mental health or continue the level that is. If we were to continue to label this field after ten years, we would completely undermine municipal autonomy. In the case of bed places, there's a rotation on it, but that's because we have a high number initially.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e179	The size goes to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e182	I would like to ask the Minister for Oil and Energy a question. In these days, there are climate negotiations in Copenhagen. There, our Environment Minister, Erik Solheim, thinks of the great thoughts about the climate challenges, while here at home the Government fails on environmental issues. There has long been a political desire, which has also been shared by the Right, to stimulate district heating and incineration of waste and to have a ban on the landfill of waste. We have actually spent around 2 billion public dollars through Enova for installations, which are currently struggling to secure raw material access due to an incineration charge, which the Right is opposed to, but which the Government has left behind, and which our neighbours in Sweden do not have. Thus, as many as 20,000 carloads of garbage from Norway go to Sweden — and this number is increasing. So, on the one hand, we're using $2 billion of taxpayers' money to stimulate the construction of district heating and combustion plants, but on the other hand, we have a tax that will remove the raw material base of these plants. So we have a government that is obviously more concerned about the tax dollars of the Treasury, and that is willing to sacrifice the environment. Sometimes it seems like the different state councils are sitting in each of their heads and don't know what the others are doing. We have a policy on the environment that is not interrelated. So my question to the Council of State is, does he think this is a satisfactory situation, that Norwegian waste is increasingly being transported and incinerated in Sweden? And if he does not think so: how will he ensure that combustion plants in Norway provide enough climate-neutral raw material?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e195	The reality is that we have now started a work to look at this very question and the relationship that the representative addresses. So the government is, like the Right, concerned to look at this relationship between Norway and Sweden in terms of the incineration of waste. So that's the problem we're in. When it comes to why it happens, I think at the same time we're going to be honest that there are two factors here. One is the question of the level of charges in the different countries. The second is that Sweden has built up quite a large capacity, in practice an overcapacity, at its combustion plants, and the plants have been very busy – to say – making good offers to get enough waste into their plants. So here it's both fiscal and market conditions that play in. In addition, I believe that the theme that the representative addresses, i.e. access to and use of district heating systems, is a very good example of how the government actually does something to follow up what we also say in Copenhagen. We've spent a lot of money putting an infrastructure in place in the last four years. We have made sure that the 20 largest cities in Norway now have a built-in district heating network. We have gone from the situation in Norway where it was not a market for waste, not a market for chips, and not a market for recoverable wood waste, because the infrastructure was not there. A good example in this way is what happens in Sarpsborg, where I was yesterday assigning 150 million. kr to Hafslund and Borregaard, who are just to make sure that we replace oil with tile, with waste and with wood. So in this area, fortunately, it happens very much. Waste is part of it, and there's other sides to it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e204	I thank you for the answer, but I'm not very impressed. I fully agree that we are spending a lot of taxpayers' money on environmental measures. However, it does not help if, on the one hand, we provide money for environmental action, and, on the other hand, there are strange taxes that allow the raw material base – in this case the waste – to be transported to Sweden. The fact that the Swedes have built up overcapacity in their combustion plants can never be an excuse for us in Norway to pursue a poor environmental policy. We're sending 20,000, maybe 30,000 trailerlass, among other things. from the West to Sweden to burn the waste there, while Norwegian combustion plants, such as Tafjord Kraftheat – and we heard it on the TV 2 news yesterday – may have to go over to firing oil to make sure Ålesund gets its heat. These are bad environmental solutions. It is wasted on taxpayers' money, and it discredits environmental policy in this country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e211	In relation to the specific matter that the representative Meling raised again, I replied to it instead in my previous reply. We look at this issue and are concerned about finding solutions that contribute to the use of waste in Norway. Then I believe that district heating – expansion and infrastructure around it – is also about more than the waste side of it, by the fact that we have now put an infrastructure in place. We actually have an opportunity to recover the waste. We have an opportunity to make use of tiles, which would otherwise have rotted in the forest, and we have an opportunity to make use of other inferior energy sources. That means that, as a result of the fact that we spent a lot more money in the last growing-up period than what the party representative Meling is part of, we did when they crashed, today has an infrastructure in place. We have a basis for actually getting this environmentally friendly conversion a step forward. And as I said, we don't just have an opportunity, we're also going to see the results.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e218	Follow-up questions will be raised – first Arve Kambe.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e222	I think we have received two bad answers to two good questions. That is why I have a follow-up question to the Minister of Finance. The waste in Norway has always been a local responsibility. Those who pay for the waste in Norway are the inhabitants and the taxpayers through the renovation tax. It's high enough as it is. In many places in Norway today, it is estimated that new combustion plants and alternative ways of driving to other reception facilities in Norway are being built, unfortunately also in Sweden. It depends on whether it pays to build and operate new waste facilities, and the Minister of Finance is well aware that a lot of people say it doesn't. The right considers that the Government has also shown in this case that they give priority to income from taxes — which are much higher for the Government — than income from taxes on green enterprises. Does the Minister of Finance think that it is good environmental and industrial policy that Norwegian citizens' taxes are used to build up industry and energy production in Sweden, or will the Minister of Finance support the Right's proposal to remove the combustion tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e233	First, I want to refer to the answer just given by the Council of State. Then I will also refer to the discussion you had in connection with the financial position, where the Government is given the task of going through this forward towards the revised national budget. It is also the case that there is a lot of focus on the fee. The amount of the fee is approximately DKK 90 per year. tonnes of waste, but if one looks at the price difference reported, between Norwegian and Swedish waste collectors, it varies from 200 kroner to 700 kroner per year. tonnes. So even if you take the charge away, there's a significant price difference with Sweden. What I want to do now is to invite the industry and the actors to a meeting on the matter just over the new year. There, I would like to discuss with the Minister of Oil and Energy, where appropriate, opportunities and arrangements to see if it is possible to clarify this issue before the revised national budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e240	Henning Skumsvoll – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e243	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. The dispensation from the disposal ban for waste results in about 500000 tonnes of combustible waste deposited each year. The waste industry is experiencing a major difference in the dispensation management of individual county offices with regard to the prohibition imposed on 1 June 2009. This leads to distortions of competition between actors, and that is a situation we do not want. So my question is, will the Council of States do anything to correct the huge differences that are being granted in the form of exemptions, so that we can also get more waste into combustion plants?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e250	I think the representative, Skumsvoll, is addressing an important question, because I have also recently been introduced to this issue. One sees that there's something different practice, and that maybe the extent of the deposit per. today is slightly larger than that when the need for exemption rules was defined. So far I have not got a complete overview of the scope, and that is not how I can conclude now. But what I can promise the representative is that I agree with the opening of the question, that the possibility of exemption provided for by law and regulation should only be that – an exception in special cases. There shall be no way forward to proceed with the same course of action, the same policy as before the prohibition was introduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e255	John Thune – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e258	I have a question for the Minister of Finance.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e263	Of course, it's all right, as long as it's related to the main question that was originally asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e266	Yesterday, the oil and energy minister in Sarpsborg was with Enova and promised 150 million. kr to a great plant. He said this would reduce climate change emissions and replace heavy oil and reduce CO2 emissions by 200000 tonnes, as well as some local emissions. This is a good project, and the infrastructure is important, but there will be no environmental benefit until we burn waste instead of oil. Does the Council of State paradox the fact that, through Enova, the State grants large grants to environmental investments, while at the same time charging on the waste that runs past the facility and to Sweden, which could have been used in Sarpsborg?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e274	I refer to the answer I gave. I see that this is a problem, and it does have two sides: one is the levy, which one should assess towards the revised national budget. In the meantime, we're going to have a meeting with the industry to see what opportunities there are. The second is that Sweden has built up a much larger capacity in this area than Norway has, so we are a little behind. At the same time, building up capacity is important in order to increase the demand for waste in Norway. We need to use more tools, but as I said, we will discuss this with the industry in the new year to see what opportunities exist, so that we can also use waste in Norway to produce district heating to far greater extent than what we are doing today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e279	We're going to go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e283	My question goes to the Minister of Oil and Energy. Today, the high-level section of the climate summit begins. The world's governments are now negotiating in Copenhagen to succeed in a global reversal of the climate. We record that the Minister of Oil and Energy has chosen not to be present in Copenhagen, but we are all the more happy that he can be here. In fact, about three quarters of greenhouse gas emissions are due to fossil energy use in the renewable nation of Norway. In order to meet the climate agreement, Norway must therefore make major efforts in the field of energy policy. We need more renewable energy and less fossil energy. The reports from Copenhagen say that mistrust between poor and rich countries increases and threatens to overturn the entire agreement. At the same time, while Norwegian traders are trying to get developing countries like China and India to take more responsibility, we are increasing our own emissions. In spite of this, neither the Minister of Energy nor any of his two predecessors have taken action to change the energy policy. The Minister of Energy is sitting passively watching fossil energy use increase and emissions rise. The predecessor of the Council of State, Åslaug Haga, announced its own big message on energy policy. Such a notification has not been dealt with in the Storting since 2004. State council Riis-Johansen stopped this work and instead announced a kerosene message. The questions raised by the Minister of Energy — or the Council of State, as the Minister of Finance called him — are therefore: Is it possible to hope that over the next four years the Government will realise that greenhouse gas emission cuts require new energy policies? Does the State Council have any strategy at all for Norway to move on to renewables? And can the Storting expect any government strategy to be treated?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e292	I want to give the representative aHåbreek honor for a meaningful question. I'm somewhat uncertain whether I'll be able to reach everything in two minutes. But to start where the representative started: Copenhagen. The starting point was that this council had also been registered and had planned for Copenhagen. But then, in connection with President Obama's visit to Norway, the US Secretary of Energy stayed in Norway until the last Sunday. I thought it was a great opportunity to pursue energy policy and have discussions with an important country towards Copenhagen, so I chose to spend time in Norway with him. I think that's right. With regard to the closure of the issue, on the biggest news and the possibility for the Storting to discuss energy policy, the Government in the government statement has announced that we are bringing a case of renewable energy to the Stortinget. We will do that in connection with the fact that there are two major renewable efforts that we are now working on. One is attached to the green certificates that Stortinget will then be presented. The second is the work on the EU's renewable directive, which is, of course, a major superstructure in relation to energy policy also in Norway. It is natural then that the Stortinget is invited to take a wide-ranging debate on energy policy. Otherwise, I disagree with the premises for the rest of the post/question. I believe that what we are now seeing in Norway is a conversion and a reorientation of energy policy in relation to policies such as: The Christian People's Party was in the lead. We spend more money on concrete measures, cf. e.g. the Borregaard project, which I agreed to allocate 150 million. Yesterday, which means conversion from oil to waste, chips, wood, and on Monday I gave concession to Haram for a large, fine wind power project – two good examples just this week on the new orientation and the strengthening of the energy policy that the Government stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e301	It is positive that the Government is increasing the appropriations for renewable energy. However, those appropriations will then compensate for the famous break in the licence negotiations that resulted in the suspension of the licence market, which is the most efficient renewable energy instrument. India is a developing country and has emissions of between 10 and 20 pst. of Norway’s emissions per year. person. Norway requires increased commitments in China, while increasing our own emissions. It is right, as the Minister of Energy points out, that the production of renewable energy is increasing. It's done that in the last 20 years. It has also contributed to this, at least to a certain extent. At the same time, however, greenhouse gas emissions have risen. That's exactly why we need a comprehensive strategy, not just to increase renewable production, but to reduce fossil energy production. That's what makes the emissions go down. So the question remains: when do we get a comprehensive strategy to reduce emissions through a change in energy policy?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e310	To the end, the answer is that we are now in the new year being presented with the recordings from our professional establishments under the collective name Klimakur. It will also provide the basis for feedback to the Stortinget, which the Minister for the Environment and Development has also briefed the Stortinget on earlier. On the question that is now being addressed, that is the answer. With regard to the second element being addressed, a criticism of the Government because it is perceived that one expects countries like China to also contribute emission reductions, I think we need to be honest with some facts about this. If we're actually going to manage – as we have to – to keep the temperature rise within two degrees, it doesn't make sense that only the rich part of the world is taking emission cuts. We can do more than a lot in the rich part of the world without reaching the 2-degree target, if not the major developing countries – such as the United States. China – also participates in and takes part in the responsibility. So that doesn't mean it's going to be equal, that doesn't mean we're going to use the same template on every country. But everyone has to contribute something.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e317	There will be follow-up questions – first Knut Arild Hareide.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e320	I fully agree with the Council of State for all countries to contribute, but at least Norway must contribute. What we see is that the government didn't succeed in bringing down Norway's emission. We also see that in an area that is significantly easier – easily getting international recognition – the image now splits for the Government. Al Gore says about the oil sand project to Statoil that it's a big mistake. These climate emissions, measured in CO2 emissions, are 10 times the size of the oil spill on the Norwegian base. I found it very uplifting to the right that Jonas Gahr Støre says he understands the point of Al Gore. My question to the oil council is, Is he in agreement with Jonas Gahr Støre, who says that this must have consequences? [[The President clubs.]] Does he understand the point of Al Gore when he says this is a big mistake?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e330	In the case of oil sand, there is a specific proposal in Stortinget, and a letter has been sent to me about it. I respect the Stortinget, so I think I should give a proper and proper answer to the letter that has come on the matter that is being dealt with. With regard to the entrance that Norway does not contribute anything other than words and wishes, I have to say that I do not understand that claim. There is not one likely landing, solution, in Copenhagen that Norway is not going to be in. I can hardly see an area in Copenhagen where Norway is not a driver in relation to getting the agreements to be as comprehensive as possible. If you go through and look at the positions taken by the different countries, Norway comes out at the top of almost all surveys and rankings. So to present it here as that Norway is a retard in relation to what is happening in Copenhagen – that we are not contributing enough, that we are not willing to do enough at home too – I think it is completely wrong. [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e337	The President must request that both questions and answers be kept within the allocated speaking time. Henning Skumsvoll – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e342	Energy Minister Steven Chu was together with the Council of State on an inspection of large parts of Energy Norway – the West, hydropower. He said to Today's Business that he was very excited about Norwegian hydropower and looked at the great potential that lay there. I also think it was said that hydropower was a very good contribution to the environmental problem in the future. The EU will produce 600 TWh, the most wind power, by 2020. Then it's important that there's something that balances it – when it doesn't blow, you can supplement it with hydropower. Then my question is: will the Council of State, on the basis of what Minister of Energy Chu said, consider expanding more hydropower here in Norway? We've got a lot of things to do. many protected watercourses, including small watercourses. Isn't it time to review those plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e349	Fortunately, we are in the situation that we can develop a lot of hydropower in Norway in the future without going along with the environmental requirements that have been put through both different protection plans and the more general environmental legislation. We see a nice large application amount for NVE, especially on small power. This means that there is both an interest and a willingness to realize good hydropower projects. I welcome those projects and believe, as the representative of Skumsvoll, that Norwegian hydropower is the best in terms of renewable energy, and in particular where it can be combined with regulatory capacity to connect with other energy carriers, not least wind, which in total increases energy efficiency and the share of renewable energy. The answer to the question is thus yes to putting in place more good hydropower projects, but also yes to keeping it within the environmental requirements.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e356	Siri A. Meling – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e360	The right has repeatedly stated that we are not impressed by the government's results in generating more new renewable energy, which is initiated by this government and not by Bondevik II. To the right, if we are to meet the climate challenge, we need to see energy production and climate in the context. That is why we are very concerned about developing more renewable energy in Norway. We all have opportunities to do so – our environments of competence, our industrial environments, etc. has good opportunities. But then there's one prerequisite that has to lie down, I think, and that's that it's a market for all this new renewable energy. Today, there's a lot of energy produced, and we have problems with trapped force in periods. If we're going to get a bet on new renewable energy, I think we need to raise the capacity of the transmission links abroad. Does the Council of State share my view of this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e365	First of all, it's a fantastic claim that I also heard recently in Stortinget, when it comes to dividing up what's done on renewable energy in the last period, and what government it's initiated by. When I say it's amazing, it's because I've experienced pretty much getting shut up in this room for the projects that haven't been implemented. In that case, it must mean that the report was addressed to the wrong person as to who initiated the projects that it has not been of. As regards access to the market for power, I agree. But I think we're going to expand the answer something, because it's not like there's just a market question related to yes or no to cables, we also have a bad network in Norway. That means that if we're going to be able to realize many of these good power projects in the future, we have to be willing to build more networks, we have to be willing to compromise a little in relation to the consequences of building networks, and we have to make sure that we get better connections across and across Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e372	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e375	My question goes to the Minister of Finance. Norway has one of the world’s highest car charges. For this reason, we also have one of Europe's oldest and most polluting car parks. I had hoped that the conversion of the fee that was made could lead to the people in Norway buying more environmentally correct cars, and replacing the old car park. When I read today's business outlook yesterday with statements from Torgeir Micaelsen, who is the Minister of Finance's partner and head of the Finance Committee, I see that the fee will make a strong jump to next year. In today's Business yesterday, Torgeir Mikalsen says: ‘We have to tighten up and the result is that the Standard Passenger will be more expensive. Cars larger than this will be subject to a luxury tax." The background for this is, of course, that you have a small income of 3.8 billion kroner from the car charges. But I dare remind you that we have a surplus on the state budget for next year of NOK 172.2 billion. There is little resemblance to predictability for both dealers, importers and – not least – those who are going to buy a car. I think it's amazing that you come with this right now, just after you've seen how the government has handled the biodiesel case. Such statements by the Chairman of the Financial Committee may lead to people hamstering cars at the end of this year and to sales going down to next year. Can the Minister of Finance clarify what can actually happen? Can he reassure the population that there will not be a tax increase on normal, environmentally friendly cars?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e389	First, I would like to refer to a press release that the head of the Finance Committee sent out yesterday, where he says he is wrong about what was happening in today's business, and that it probably wasn't meant the way it was in the paper. During the last few years there has been a significant change in the one-off charge on the car, by reducing the charge on the cars that emit at least CO2, and then there has been some increase in the charge on the cars that emit a lot of CO2. There is a type of conversion that will continue just to achieve the goal set by the Government that in 2012 the CO2 emissions of new passenger cars will be reduced to 120 grams per. Kilometres. Over the last two years, this has been reduced from 177 to 151, and we're going down to 120. The charging policy will be used in this context. Just to give an example, a small Toyota has received over NOK 8 000 in a fee reduction, while a large Porsche has received a fee increase of almost NOK 39,000. There is a kind of environmental change that will continue. Otherwise, it's impossible for the Minister of Finance to say what's going on in future charging schemes, but I don't think I'm going to reveal any big secret when I say that the conversion towards green taxes to get to a desired environmental behavior is something that we're going to work on. Then I think that the scheme we have had for the one-off fee in the last few years is a good way to do it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e407	I'm glad it's been corrected, what the chairman of the finance committee has been out with. I agree that the tax policy should be changed in such a way that more cars with lower emissions are sold. But the problem when you sell more cars with lower emissions – the council even mentioned the sale of Porsche, it’s not the most common car you see when you’re out in town – is that of course this leads to that you don’t get any big revenues from selling these types of cars either. That means that the level of taxes, the income of the state on this, will go down in the future, as people buy more environmentally friendly cars. It also means that we are approaching a more and more common European level. My question then will be: is it a goal for the Government that by getting cars that pollute less and less, we will approach more and more a European average level of car prices?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e416	First, a small comment on what appears to be a decrease in the fee for 2009. It is primarily linked to a decrease in car sales themselves and to a lesser extent to a change in the charge. Then it is that charges have more purpose: fees should try to promote a particular consumption or action. Fees may be designed to prevent people from taking things, such as: alcohol and tobacco. Then, of course, fees have a fiscal impact in order to contribute to the financing of the Community's good purposes in many other areas. It is difficult to say how far one will come, but we will continue the fee conversion that we have undertaken to stimulate the purchase of cars that emit little CO2. A little depending on what happens in the rest of the world, one can, to the extent that one will approach the foreign level, if one does not then reduce the charges equivalent in the rest of the world.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e428	There will be follow-up questions – first Ulf Leirstein.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e431	I understand that the Minister of Finance cannot say exactly which changes will have to come in the years to come. It's not safe for the government to hold on for so many years to come either. What I want to ask the Minister of Finance about is how he sees the process that might lead to changes, because it is in many ways announced that there will be constant changes in the car tax system. You often feel that there is a bit of a Christmas evening coming on a certain crumb. People were motivated to buy more diesel cars, so suddenly there will be a higher annual tax on diesel cars without a particulate filter afterwards, they added the diesel tax, etc. There are consequences, even if people do what the Government recommends to do. Will the Minister of Finance take responsibility for wide-ranging processes associated with possible future changes to the car tax system, so that organisations and others affected by such changes are able to influence before anything is presented in a government budget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e440	At least this government is going to sit on this period. Then there's going to be a election in 2013, and we're going to win that election too. But at least for this period, one can assume that we're sitting. So it's like one has to separate two things. One is the determination of the specific charges, i.e. the scheme itself. There are enough things that have to get into the state budget in the usual way. However, it is fully possible to have a discussion about more fundamental changes and more overarching action in terms of the charging system, without jeopardising the secrecy required before promoting a charging scheme for the Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e447	Gunnar Gundersen – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e451	With the biodiesel thing in fresh memory, we can fear what can happen in the state budget, as the Council of State says. I think it should be recognised that green tax policy is extremely important, and it is very important to create a system that plays a role both in business and in consumers if we are to succeed in environmental policy. What has now happened during the fall, and the outplay of the Micah yesterday – whether he is mistaken or not – is very damaging to the credibility of the system itself. We're now in Copenhagen and we're going to save the world, and then we can't even make a credible system at home. Does the State Council agree with the characteristic that the harvest has been disastrous for the government's green tax and tax policy? What will he do to restore credibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e458	In general, I am in favour of a much smaller fear of the future, and rather of looking at the opportunities that the future offers. It is at least a supply gel for the Minister of Finance. In the case of the biodiesel tax and in so far as charges linked to biofuels are concerned, the very principle of a certain conversion has been warned earlier by a fully-fledged operator from 2007 that biofuels must also be able to charge a so-called user charge. It has been a difficult matter, which has cost a lot. There's no reason to hide it. At the same time, I think one should save the big headlines on disasters etc. on more occasions than the biodiesel tax. What will really be a ‘catastrophe’ is if one is unable to reach a binding agreement in Copenhagen. That's what's the big deal now. If it fails, maybe you can use slightly larger letters than in the biodiesel case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e467	Hans Olav Syversen – to the last follow-up question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e470	Although there has now been a rich press release from the chairman of the Finance Committee after the performance in the business world today, it is certain that there is a high opinion in the government parties about this. And I actually think that's what the Government and government parties are about in terms of the charging policy in the area we're talking about here. My question to the Minister of Finance is just about predictability. He emphasises that he must keep the level of charges secret for the sake of the state budget, etc., but he must therefore not go further than to Sweden to see that there is an announcement that, for example, he is responsible for the budget. will be taxed on biodiesel in 2013 to increase the number of ears on the taxes on petrol and diesel for the coming year to a much greater extent than what is being done in Norway. Will the Minister of Finance himself contribute to a more predictable Norwegian consumer regime in this area?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e477	There is something special about car charges and car-related charges, which creates both discussion and – often – strong feelings. And that's understandable, because the car is an important family member for most people. It is fully possible to think highly about the principles and directions of the charging system, but my point is that some charges are actually such that they have to be included in the State budget. I have been involved in handling charges in closed meetings at the Stortingets Finance Committee and met colleagues in the hall here who were buying a car, but I knew something I could not say. So it is clear that there must be a certain secrecy around fees that can lead people to adapt in advance of any fee increase. On the other hand, it is fully possible to notify e.g. escalation plans for fees and, to the extent that stations are set up in the future in the context of discussing principles concerning the imposition of charges. So we're going to see what's possible, but I'm going to have to reserve the very rates for the public disclosure of the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e486	Let's go to the next main question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e489	My question goes to the Minister of Health and Care. The ‘return back’ scheme was reintroduced by the Stoltenberg II Government the last time the increased sick leave was at the top of the political agenda. The background to the scheme is reasonably clear: increasing sick leave is linked to increasing cows in order to escape and receive treatment. Many people who are sick are simply sick and need help in our healthcare system. In 2010, money was once again allocated to the scheme Faster back. Nevertheless, several private rehabilitation and training institutions experience that the treatment agreement with Raskere expires on 1 January 2009 without a new agreement for 2010. As a result, more rapid returns have been made ‘later back’ for many of those currently in treatment queues who are sick. The institution, Godthaab, had called its employees to meet yesterday to provide information on permissive alerts. As a result, free capacity remains unused, while both hospital cows and sick leave are increasing. This is wasted resources of society, it's wasted with people who want to get back to work quickly. My question to the Council of State is: Will the Council of State get healthcare companies to extend the agreement from 2009 until a new agreement for 2010 is in place, so that they can make use of this capacity and people return to work quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e502	There is no doubt that the Government takes a serious view of increasing sick leave, including in the health and care sector, and that many measures are needed to achieve this. Faster returns are one measure. It is implemented in different ways, including: also through the use of residence in rehabilitation institutions, on which the representative Bent Höie is involved. For 2010, nearly 500 million have been allocated. kr back to Faster, but to private institutions in addition, healthcare companies use approx. DKr 1.2 billion. Health enterprises have contracts with the rehabilitation institutions. The term of the agreement has been mentioned several times in Stortinget, and I also see that the term of the agreement may be problematic for someone regarding predictability. That's why I want to give guidance signals about it at the corporate meeting. In the case of the accelerated-back scheme, which, after all, is granted through the State budget year after year, it is such that regional health establishments will conclude agreements. But there are agreements at the bottom, and there are no significant changes in the agreement with Godthaab, as I know. Here is an agreement between Health South-East and the institution, which continues in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e513	Røros Rehabilitation Centre, CatoSenteret, Godthaab and Vikersund Kurbad are some examples of institutions that have agreements on Raskers back in 2009 which expires on 1 January 2010, without health care companies starting negotiations on new agreements for 2010. The health companies have known since the government budget was presented in October that money would be granted back to the scheme Faster. There has been no political disagreement on this and they could have negotiated agreements for 2010 with effect from 1 January. Now institutions have to permit employees, usually for two months, before it comes back to treatment. On 10 September 2009, the Prime Minister, the Right Group, replied to a question about Fasters: ‘It is assumed that the funds will be used as efficiently as possible in relation to the purpose of the scheme, which is to speed up the return of sick people to work so as to reduce sick leave.’; Does the Minister of Health think that the way health businesses deal with this scheme is in line with what the Prime Minister has blacked the Stortinget as late as September 2009?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e525	Faster return is an action – it may be an operation, or it may be a rehabilitation stay, but at the bottom there is an agreement between the health business and the rehabilitation institution from year to year, preferably a multiannual agreement. It is important for predictability in rehabilitation organisations. Faster back is what we grant to year by year, and that supplement, the agreement to be made with different institutions, will be made, but at the bottom is the agreement that they have. In the case of the Special Rehabilitation Centre with which the Right has obviously been involved, the Godthaab Rehabilitation Centre, as I know, the agreement is to be continued for 2010, and there are no significant changes. It is the regional health undertaking that is responsible here and that guarantees both the quality of the institutions offering and contracts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e530	There will be three follow-up questions – first Sonja Irene Sjøli.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e534	This case shows that the regional health establishments are the goats that fit the oat sack. They're more concerned with protecting their own business than getting people back to work. HELFO, under the Health Directorate, effectively ensures that those who experience a breach of the waiting period guarantee receive prompt treatment where there is no capacity in public or private hospitals, and the Right has previously proposed that, in the case of Raskers, the money should be used by HELFO on behalf of health care professionals. Does the Minister of Health agree that such an organisation had ensured that the funds had been used more effectively, to get people back to work more quickly?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e539	The order Raskere back will offer an offer to those who can benefit from it, in order to get back to work more quickly. It can, as I said, be an operation, it can be rehabilitation, which can either be carried out under public law or by private institutions that have contracts with health companies. With regard to regional health businesses, they have a clear responsibility to provide health services in their region, and it is certainly not my view that they protect more about their own activities than about patients and the best of the population. It's my impression that they're doing everything they can to both manage the public money in a good way and ensure the patients in this country good treatment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e546	Kari Kjönnaas Kjos – for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e549	In September 2008, a man was diagnosed with an injury requiring surgery. He applied to get back under the Rasker scheme, and was told that he would have an operation at the end of 2009. So he was supposed to be on sick pay for one year. I don't see this as fast or backwards. There's free capacity, especially at the private clinics, and my question to the government council is: why does the red-green government think it's better to spend the money on sick money than to spend the money on buying an operation, which would actually give you a lower cost?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e554	The President must be allowed to recall that, to the extent that questions are asked about individual matters, we have a written questioning institute and an ordinary questioning session. I assume that it is meant as a reference to a general issue, and therefore the Council of State may be allowed to respond.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e557	There is no doubt that many people who go ill over a longer period of time, and such as those who are sick. waiting for an operation, getting impaired quality of life and being ill-reported for too long. It is absolutely so that the government is very busy to bring down sick leave, not least for the individual to come back to work and back in the everyday life in which most of us want to be in. There are many measures to offer an offer. Someone is waiting for an operation to take too long. We can agree on that, and we're trying to do something about it. However, in the case of action in the field of rapid return, they are just supposed to be able to provide those with the opportunity to receive treatment, in order to return to work more quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e564	Laila Bavøy - for follow-up questions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e567	In the consultation of the Health and Welfare Committee, there were many inputs on rehabilitation and rehabilitation in institutions after illness or injury. Let me take an example from an institution that says it today is completely unpredictable. They've had to halve the number of places, and faster back they only get one year at a time. Other agreements are for two years at a time, perhaps with the possibility of one or two years extension. It's cheese-happy. Fewer places and shorter bedtime are also characteristic of these institutions. I have to say that I am very concerned that the Council of State does not answer the question if she believes it is okay that the ideal and private rehabilitation institutions have now actually gone to terminations because they have not got an agreement on the hassle back next year. What does the Government mean by ‘predictability’ in its own government statement, when we stand here with one to two years of agreements? Is that predictable?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e576	In the case of the accelerated back action, there is an exceptional measure, an exceptional item granted year by year. We've chosen to continue this for next year. It's almost 500 million. kr. At the bottom here are institutions that have more predictable agreements with health businesses, but I have taken the signals that have come from the Storting, both in the budgetary procedures and in several questions to me in Stortinget, that it is desirable to have longer contractual periods. But you have to look back more quickly as a matter of your own initiative. It is otherwise the general agreement of health care establishments with the rehabilitation institutions. There I want to give guidance signals that you have to look at the contract period because it creates difficulties, and that is very understandable. It creates difficulties for the institutions. I have taken that into account, but as far as the system is concerned, faster back, there is a small part of this, which must be granted year by year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e581	Then the oral question procedure is over, and we're going to the ordinary questioning procedure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e588	There will be a number of changes in the list of questions set out, and the President refers to the overview distributed in the seats of the representatives in the Chamber. The proposed amendments to the current Question Time are proposed. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. The changes were as follows: Question 4, from the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark to the Minister of Defence, is answered by the Minister of Justice, who has been removed. At the request of the Minister of Justice, this question is moved and answered before question 16, to be answered by the same Council of State. Question 6, from the representative Lars Myraune to the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade, is moved and answered at the request of the Council of State to answer question 27, i.e. at the end of the Questionnaire. Questions 7, 8, 11, 12 and 13 from Arne Sortevik, Ingjerd Schou, Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, Øyvind Halleraker and Svein Harberg, respectively, to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Transport and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Transport, who is in a state of disease. Questions 9 and 10 from the representatives Mr Bård Hoksrud and Mr Freddy de Ruiter respectively to the Minister for Transport are postponed to the next Question Time, as the Council of State has a disease incident. Questions 16 and 17 from the representatives of Arve Kambe and Siri A. Meling, respectively, to the Minister for the Environment and Development, were answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development, who has left. Question 22, from the representative of Torgair Tåldal to the Minister for Agriculture and Food, has been withdrawn. Questions 25 and 26, from Robert Eriksson and Henning Warloe, respectively, to the Minister of Labour, are postponed until the next Question Time, when the Council of State has left. Question 27, from the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast, is taken up by the representative Frank Bakke Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e614	‘Assessing pupils with developmental disabilities before high school leave is rarely considered on which of the twelve regular lines is best suited for each student. Students are often placed on line 13, which consists of learning to perform daily tasks and which does not provide formal competence required by the Training Act. What will the Council of State do to the county, so that the students are taught according to the law?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e621	There are today, as the questioner is concerned, twelve higher education programmes. Three of them are preparatory and nine are professional. Students applying for post-secondary education shall be included in one of these 12 education programmes. Other training programmes are not available, nor is there any ‘Line 13’ mentioned by the representative of Thorsen. Some students, however, have difficulty obtaining adequate benefits from regular and adapted training. In this case they may require special education. In that case, individual decisions must be taken and expert judgement made by the county PP service. An individual training plan, a so-called IOP, must be drawn up for the student. This needs to show the student’s training objectives and the content of the student’s training. The provisions of the Training Act on Special Education contained in the Training Act Chapter 5 must be complied with. Although a student receives special education, this student has the right to receive training according to normal curricula, and is entitled to the same number of hours as other students. If this proves impossible, the student’s individual training plan may exclude both the curriculum and the professional and hourly distribution. The exception may be to offer the student alternative training in a smaller group. For example, a highly disabled student can be given daily training in the form of daily training. Such an alternative training offer is not an individual training programme, but an individual right to special education for a student who has a decision and needs to do so.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e640	The question was: ‘It is rare for students with developmental disabilities to be evaluated’. I'm not satisfied with the answer. I felt it was too general. The question is that the so-called offer no. 13, which is granted to the developmentally impaired, has no guidelines or requirements on how the training is to be conducted. However, the Progress Party expects, and here comes a clarification of the question, that the Training Act Section 5-1 on the right to special education – such as the Swedish Ministry of Education. states that the student’s development prospects should be ‘focused on the student’s development prospects in particular’ – followed. According to the journal Somfänn for all, the Directorate of Education has contacted the counties, who reject the offer as illegal. The new apprenticeship system has produced very good results where it has been tested. Does the Minister intend to facilitate training within the apprenticeship scheme for students with developmental disabilities?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e649	The issue that Bente Thorsen addresses and refers to is very important for those who have special training challenges, but we lack a national overview of the scope, offer and practice of what Thorsen addresses. Parents and user organisations have addressed this issue in national consultation conferences that we have had in connection with the fact that the central management committee's decision, which is just about this issue, has now been consulted. We've just received a lot of hearing opinions on this. I think it's over 280, so there's a lot of commitment around this. I want to address the issue that Bente Thorsen is raising with me now, in the follow-up to that investigation, and will consider what measures we can take to ensure that all students are given the training they are entitled to – also the group of students who are concerned about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e658	I am more pleased with the answer to the Council of State now! It will be exciting to follow developments further after what has come. At the same time, the number of complaints to the County is greatly reduced by relatives. One possible reason might be that complaining about the offer is very resource-intensive because the individual decision often only contains that the student has entered school, and does not say anything about what special education should contain. Will the Council of State take the necessary steps to ensure that decisions on the content of education for disabled pupils are taken in the Single Decision, in order to simplify the appeal procedure?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e667	I'd like to investigate a little bit before I give a supplementary answer to the last follow-up question from the representative of Thorsen. I understand the commitment that lies behind this issue that is being addressed, and I'd like to cooperate with the representative Thorsen on how we're going to be able to make this offer better in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e677	I have the following questions for the Minister of Knowledge: ‘What reductions in greenhouse gas emissions can the red-green government refer to under the responsibility of the Minister of Knowledge since accession in 2005 and how do the Council of State assess these results in relation to Norway’s national greenhouse gas reduction target?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e684	Let's first raise our eyes a little bit. My starting point for the answer to this question is that in the education sector, the main solutions to climate problems are found – the main challenge is not that emissions from this sector are so great – it is those who sit on the school bench today, it is the research environments that we are responsible for, for which we are completely dependent on knowledge and competence and can put their heads in the balance and find solutions to how we can reduce climate emissions in the future. Not all sectors have. During the review of the Climate Change Communication, it was agreed that in 2020 it is realistic to reduce emissions in Norway by 15-17 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent compared to the reference path presented in the 2007 national budget, when forests are included. In line with the principles of sectoral responsibility in environmental protection policy, the Climate Action Communication, St.meld. No 34 for 2006-2007, set own emission targets for four main sectors. The government is continuously following up the climate agreement. However, the challenges are not that the climate agreement is not adequately followed up. The challenge is that although the climate agreement was a major step forward for climate policy, the measures in the conciliation are probably not enough in relation to our climate objectives. As a result, the government is constantly looking for ways to extend the climate toolkit. Therefore, the Government set up the Climate Change 2020 team only a few months after the adoption of the Climate Change Agreement in the Stortinget in 2008. The Climate Action Report, now produced by the SFT and other agencies, will provide in February the most comprehensive menu of new instruments and measures ever presented in Norway. The Klimakur report will show how Norway can meet the climate targets. Following the presentation of the Climate Action Plan in February, the Government will carefully consider the various proposals. Following a climate change crisis, the Government will therefore provide the Stortinget with an assessment of climate policy and the need for changed instruments. In the Ministry of Knowledge, the main focus of action in the field of climate policy – as I was at the outset – is on training, knowledge dissemination and awareness-raising. The ‘Human with environmental awareness’ chapter of the ‘Knowledge promise’ covers sustainable development in the general context of the curriculum. Environment and sustainable development are also addressed in both natural and social sciences. The Ministry has, through the National Action Plan on Sustainable Development, activated schools, employees and students in the field of sustainable development and activities contributing to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. And last of all, we have a lot of good examples. In spring 2008, a knowledge status was established that underlines that many schools have a poor physical environment and poor school standards. The need for rehabilitation in schools was still high, and the Government therefore proposed in the 2009 State budget to extend and amend the grant scheme that was established in due course in connection with the start-up of the primary school reform. Therefore, a new eight-year interest-reimbursement programme was introduced for the rehabilitation of school facilities owned by municipalities and county municipalities. It was set up with a frame of NOK 15 billion. Two of these billions were phased into the 2009 state budget, and another 2 billion dollars, as we know, are phased into the state budget for next year. Changes have also been made to allow private schools to participate in this. Rehabilitation of schools of this magnitude will contribute to the reduction of energy use and the more environmentally friendly operation of schools. I also draw attention to the package of measures, the exceptional means of maintenance that the municipalities have received. A large proportion of them have gone to the rehabilitation of school facilities, as well as to this type of improvement, both heating and ventilation, for example. In kindergarten, too, it's about the environment in many ways. I would like to emphasise here that many kindergartens are involved in the work of the Green Flag, where the aim is to stimulate sustainable development through environmental education and practice. In 2008, more than 50,000 schools and kindergartens participated in an international scheme. Norwegian kindergartens have a long tradition of working environmentally through local development. The framework plan for the content and tasks of kindergarten also emphasises the responsibilities of kindergarten for providing children with basic insights and understanding of nature, environmental protection and the interaction of nature. State activities under my responsibility have been following the guidelines on the Green State for several years. Here, among other things, it is added. emphasis on systematically integrating environmental considerations into the operation, including: identify the environmental impact of own operations. As the representative of Aspaker will note, in the case of kindergartens and schools, it is possible to achieve concrete reductions in emissions, improved energy efficiency and new environmental solutions, primarily in the building mass. But I want to emphasize anyway what I started with, that the most important thing in education, from kindergarten to the last professor, is to contribute to the fact that we are still hungry for knowledge, and that we are constantly developing knowledge so that we have better environmental solutions in the future. In this way, the education sector will be a positive player that contributes to reductions not only in its own field but also in very many other areas of society.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e713	I would like to thank the Council of State for the answer. I very much agree with her that the education sector and the research field are a key resource in how we can deal with the challenges we face, whether we speak nationally or in a more global context. But the more important I think it is then that we are also able to take this into account in everyday life, that we are able to show that it is not just the big views and what we are doing – I was saying – that we are counting abroad, but that we are actually in the everyday, close policy at home also doing the right thing to see that we are changing attitudes. I think it's incredibly important with the power of the example. The councils were in on this with the building mass, etc. But does the Ministry of Knowledge have its own defined policy in relation to climate-friendly construction, heating, etc. – I also think about the building mass of the department itself?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e722	We're trying all the way to find the best possible environmental solutions. Most facilities in the kindergarten and school sectors are the responsibility of municipalities. The municipalities account for approx. 5 pst. of the total CO2 emissions in Norway, and we are working intensively to make municipalities their own climate action plans and focus on how to reduce emissions. There is a lot of interesting work going on in this field around the municipalities. Let me give you an example from Trondheim. The first five months of 2008 saved ten schools in Trondheim – and then we're all the way down on the planet where the representative Aspaker calls for commitment – energy equivalent to the normal consumption of 50 single homes, and the consumption was reduced by 12 pst. compared to the previous year. It's a very concrete example of something that actually led to reductions in emissions, but that also became a very wake-up effect for all the children and adults involved in these projects. In this way, through the school system, we can help to get the awareness that the representative is after.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e730	I would also like to thank the Council of State for that answer. The point is that now it is important to keep the matter warm, also between large climate events when things build up and the matter has the maximum focus in the media. I would like to ask and challenge the Council of State if she would like to take the initiative to provide a brief explanation of the sector's handling of the annual budgets of the Ministry of Knowledge, of any results achieved and of the specific ambitions it has for its own environmental and climate objectives in the coming year.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e737	I would like to come back to that when we are going to update how we are going to work on our climate objectives, after the work on Climate Change has been completed and presented. It may be interesting to make this visible, as requested by the representative Aspaker, in the context of the budgetary procedure. But I'm also concerned that we're going to find the most effective ways we can work on this. Yesterday's timeout setting was submitted. It is just emphasised that we need to give a very high priority to what tasks we send to School-Norway, so that we are absolutely sure that the schools have time for their core tasks. In particular, when the school can combine its educational objectives with concrete measures that can be taken in individual schools, there is also a pedagogical possibility. But let me get back to what's most appropriate to make sure that one has a strong focus on reducing CO2 emissions in the school sector, without pushing the school down with new impossible tasks.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e750	The background to my question is the situation of the Tibetan exile government, in the context of the dialogue process with the Chinese authorities: ‘The dialogue between China and the Tibetan exile government has been under way for a long time. It is now known that an initiative has been taken to get the conversations going again. The U.S. President, Barack Obama, raised the Tibet issue during his visit to China in November. The Dalai Lama and the clear starting point of the Tibetan exile government are not independence, but finding a solution within China's borders. Will the Minister for Foreign Affairs take steps to ensure that Tibet is also brought on the agenda of the Chinese-Norwegian dialogue?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e759	I would first like to thank the representative for addressing this issue, which is important, and which must not be forgotten in the major political assessments. Tibet-related issues are something we have raised and continue to discuss with the Chinese authorities. Norway is closely following the situation in Tibet. Most recently, during consultations with China's Vice-President Zhang Zhijun in Oslo on 11 December, I raised Tibet and minority issues in the part of the conversation I participated in. I underlined to him that the Norwegian Government is concerned with the rights of minorities in general and the situation of Tibet in particular. We have followed the situation in Tibet both before and after the violent riots in Lhasa in March 2008, officially and in connection with many of the networks that represent Tibetans also in exile. On several occasions, we have expressed our concern to the Chinese authorities that the proceedings following the unrest in Tibet last year and in Xinjiang in July this year resulted in several death sentences and executions. Norway joined an EU declaration at the end of November which protested against the executions of two Tibetans following the riots in Tibet. I also raised the death penalty question, with the background of the very intense death penalty we've been looking for the riots, in my conversations with the Secretary of State. The Norwegian Embassy in Beijing makes regular service claims to Tibet and visited Lhasa at the latest at the beginning of this month to get a first-hand impression of the situation in the area. Then we have the annual human rights dialogue with China. It provides an opportunity to address issues related to minority rights in the country. This year too, Tibet will be a theme of the dialogue meeting. It is timely that the question comes today, because the meeting takes place in Oslo today and tomorrow, and is therefore also on the agenda. The human rights dialogue has its own working group, which discusses minority rights among Chinese and Norwegian experts. Issues directly related to Tibet are also addressed in the related meetings with the Chinese authorities. Prior to the 11th round of the MR Dialogue with China last October, Secretary of State Raymond Johansen headed a delegation to Tibet. This time, the Chinese delegation visited Finnmark in advance of the dialogue meeting to learn more about Norwegian common policies and indigenous peoples. The representative refers to the dialogue between the Chinese authorities and representatives of the Dalai Lama, and that initiatives have now been taken to relaunch the talks. It is positive that the parties do not reject such contact, despite the unrest in the Tibetan territories in recent years and the increasing distance between the parties. In our talks with the Chinese authorities, we underline the importance of this dialogue continuing, and we encourage the parties to continue along this path.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e776	I would like to thank the Foreign Minister for a good and informative answer. I want to inform the Minister for Foreign Affairs that we in Stortinget are going to start again a group related to Tibet issues, which Stortinget has also had in the past. It is now in its infancy. However, I have a question related to the Norwegian-Chinese dialogue. There have been some concerns, including: by Amnesty's leader John Peder Eigenæs in the evening post today, that one is afraid that the Chinese are depriving the dialogue work with Norway. The background for that is the lack of political representation on the Chinese side, the postponement of meetings and the kind of thing. I would like to hear the Foreign Minister's assessments of this. Is the Foreign Minister concerned about this in the same way, and how will he comment on these questions?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e785	I'm at the overall level not worried about that. We have been in this dialogue for over ten years now, and having been responsible for it for four to five years, my impression is that it is being prioritised from the Chinese side. The time they actually have says something about the quality of the delegation. We wanted the Minister of State for Foreign Affairs to have headed the delegation this time. But I have a certain understanding that he's in Copenhagen and not in Oslo these days. In fact, China, with its major international area of interest, has a limited number of politicians at this level. It says something about the person they were supposed to lead the dialogue in Oslo, is the one who until the Prime Minister comes to Copenhagen from Beijing, leads China's negotiations there. What we have to look at is the content of the conversations, the follow-up of them, the emphasis on them. It's hard to get the right attention to set a time and get the right people, but the sum of what we've learned is that China prioritizes it, and we prioritize it. Then there is a basis for going on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e792	It is clear that the meetings in Copenhagen are important. I understand that too. The Copenhagen meeting also raises important questions about the importance of the Tibet Plateau. It is true that there are very important reservoirs of water on the Tibetan Plateau for large parts of Asia. As you can see, there is also a strategically perhaps more demanding area, as far as the water supply to Asia's most populous country is not only dependent on the development of the climate, but in fact also on the situation in Tibet. How does the Minister for Foreign Affairs view that issue in relation to Tibet? Will this complicate the work of finding solutions in Tibet, or will it raise the issues on the agenda?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e799	Like Stortinget, the Government has the view that we support a one-China policy, where we are engaged in the dialogue with China and in the position of minorities. It should be a world focus on minorities – not just in China, but in all countries. However, the question raised by the representative is very relevant. I should like to refer to the report that Al Gore and I presented in Copenhagen two days ago on melting ice. It was not only about melting ice from Greenland, from Antarctica and separately from the pole basin, but also from the third pole, namely Himalayas. It is also a frightening reading, because it is about the supply of water, as the representative says, in a large region. It is about floods due to intense melting and water supply disruption in a future perspective, unless there are glaciers. I believe the answer to the question asked by the representative is yes, it's going to make the strategic importance of this region more important, because it comes into play from the access to water, which is so important to so many millions of people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e808	Question 4 will be answered before question 16.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e814	It's climate that's in focus right now. It is therefore natural to address the following questions to the Minister of Finance: ‘What reductions in greenhouse gas emissions can the red-green government refer to under the responsibility of the Minister of Finance since accession in 2005 and how does the Council of State assess the results in relation to Norway’s national greenhouse gas reduction target?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e821	As Minister of Finance, I am responsible for both the government's tax policy and the government's purchase and sale of greenhouse gas allowances. Furthermore, the Minister of Finance shall ensure that economic development is sustainable. Since the Government joined in 2005, the fees have been strengthened as an instrument for improving the environment. Environmental taxes make the polluter pay and allow revenues to be used to reduce other taxes and taxes. The increase in the CO2 tax on aviation and the increase in the levy on diesel and fuel oil are important changes in order to pay off for people to choose more climate-friendly solutions. Today is beyond 55 pst. of the total emissions of greenhouse gases subject to a charge. Analysis shows that the CO2 tax has led to emission reductions. In Norway’s Fourth Report to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change in February 2006, it was estimated that Norway’s emissions would have been about 4.5 million. tonnes higher in 2010 if one had not introduced the CO2 tax. In order to stimulate a more environmentally friendly car fleet, CO2 emissions were introduced as one of the main components of the one-off tax in 2007 and we introduced an environmental differentiation of the annual tax in 2008. The changes in the one-off charge have made it more profitable to buy cars with lower CO2 emissions and average CO2 emissions from first-time registered cars have fallen significantly in recent years. During the Kyoto period, the Ministry of Finance shall purchase greenhouse gas allowances on behalf of the State. We spend a lot of money on this, and it is therefore important to stress that Norway only buys UN-approved allowances. This is mainly done through the green development mechanism, which is project cooperation between rich and poor countries, and which contributes to the transfer of resources and technology from rich to poor countries. So far, the Ministry of Finance has concluded contracts for the supply of about one third of the allowances we need, and lately there has been a significant increase in the number of requests for projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e858	I thank you for an informative answer, and I also repeated a part of what came out in an oral question time. I think this with the purchase and sale of climate allowances is absolutely central, and the Minister of Finance therefore has a very central role to play in meeting the commitments. Here we're going to be far behind the climate agreement in the Storting, because it's overfilling the Kyoto process. The international purchase of climate allowances is a significant challenge in terms of ensuring the quality of the projects to be included. One example is the Dahuashui hydropower project in China, where we spent considerable resources both on quality checkout and on finding out if the project had a goal. It turned out that it was finally not approved. The question remains: how will the Minister of Finance ensure that the projects under consideration are actually approved by the United Nations and are in line with your expectations? It's one of the big challenges you have with the quota system.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e867	It's true, as Gundersen's representative says, that this with climate quotas is both laborious and demanding, but at the same time very important. It is also important to be aware that one will see this throughout the Kyoto period, so that one in a way also has a long-term run here. As the representative now pointed out, this hydropower project in China has now been taken out. It shows that the mechanism one has chosen to use, namely UN approval of the projects, is working. For our part in the future, we will both be very attentive and very loyal to following the principle that it will only be about UN-approved projects in the future. This is an important prerequisite for ensuring that an effective contribution is made to the good projects that give the result you want, namely a reduction in climate emissions and a contribution to working in a good way in developing countries.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e874	I thank you again for the answer and wish the Minister of Finance luck with those challenges. The next challenge is to create credibility around climate policy and national fiscal policy. We were in the oral question procedure, but it might be a good idea to repeat it with credibility and long-termity. The fact that there are no major surprises in the tax system is extremely important for the credibility of climate policy. There is a lot of evidence that the previous Minister of Finance did not fully understand how serious signals are perceived through fiscal policy. It is important that it does not get the impression that the tax and tax policy is functioning immediately, and that it is reversed. Then no one will follow the signals. I want to basically just repeat the importance of it, and ask how to restore that credibility.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e879	I guess there's no reason to repeat what we were into the oral questioning strategy, but this biogas thing is probably going to haunt us for a while. At the same time, it is important, and it is to the extent in political activity in general, that you have a credibility about what is happening and a long-term policy. I think we can agree on that very quickly. So time will show, as we come up with new proposals and work on new proposals, how much one is able to build up the necessary credibility around the policy. I would also like to mention, just as a contribution, that during the climate negotiations currently taking place in Copenhagen, Norway has proposed a funding mechanism to further increase the potential for good climate action in developing countries, and it is a proposal that has given considerable attention. Then we hope that one might, as the weekend approaches, see that Norway has had a positive impact on a new important action on the international climate arena. Otherwise, I would like to thank you for your kind thoughts about having to follow up on the responsibility for climate allowances. We have to do that, even if it's a demanding job.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e888	Question 6 will be answered later.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e894	This question, from the representative of Sortevik to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e897	It's a good workman. The question is: ‘The four largest cities, Oslo, Stavanger, Bergen and Trondheim, all need to modernise their transport networks. Growing transport needs for both freight and passenger transport must be met with efficient, safe and energy-efficient solutions. Traffic must be provided with effective corridors. Good solutions in these cities are also of national interest. Will the Council of State take the initiative to ensure that the Government, through the Ministry of Transport, controls the process, planning and time use more strongly and also provides State funding?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e906	The state is responsible for transport policy. So the government thinks it's important that the state comes into the process of finding good transport solutions in the big cities. At the same time, large urban areas are complex in terms of both challenges, objectives and current instruments. In addition, responsibility for the means of action is distributed between different levels of administration. This places great demands on coordination and good cooperation between municipal, county and state authorities. Through the establishment of the concept selection external quality assurance system, KS1, I believe that the state has been given an important tool to manage future state investments. As stated in the Minister of Transport's written answer to question No. 199, from the representative of Sortevik, it has been implemented KS1 for Oslopackak 3. The further follow-up of Oslopackak 3 takes place under state control and in close cooperation with the Municipality of Oslo and Akershu County. Work on concept evaluations/KS1 is well underway both in Stavanger and in Bergen, and in Trondheim work will start with the first. After the work on KS1 has been completed, a position will be taken on how the planning work will be carried out. Through Ot.prp. No 15 for 2007-2008, it is a warning that, in the case of forthcoming urban packages, there will be a requirement for holistic use of instruments. I look forward to having a close dialogue with the different cities about what future urban packages should look like. I believe that the most effective will be a combination of greater efforts in the provision of collective and bicycles and more effective restrictive measures to curb private car growth, as well as the continued need to build up the road network in many places. I would also like to take advantage of the need to take into account the remuneration arrangements for less car traffic and to improve collective provision and the future of cities for which the Ministry of the Environment has the primary responsibility. Both the reward scheme and the cities of the future allow the state to influence local government in the direction of a holistic land and transport policy. It is a goal that the pooling of state and local tools in urban packages, the payroll scheme and the cities of the future is holistic.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e917	Thanks for the answer. On the question, which is two-part, I go on to the second part, that is, this with increased government funding. The total investment in the transport network in these four cities over the last 20 years has been around NOK 53 billion. The state has contributed 44 pst, i.e. 24 million. NOK, and the cars with 55 pst, nearly 30 million. kr. In addition, they have paid NOK 7 billion in interest and collection. Toll-financed packages will also be continued over the next 20 years, with less government funding, increased toll rates and the use of tolls for non-road purposes. Then the question of follow-up is: Shouldn't the state increase its funding in the largest cities? Is there a lack of money that means that the state and the Government are not willing to increase the state contribution to the new packages and the new content of continued packages that we are now about to launch?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e924	The new reform, the Administrative Reform, which will enter into force on 1 January, will have greater responsibility for a greater role and greater self-responsibility for investment in pedestrian and bicycle roads and public transport. The priority of the funds will be greater within the state's framework. As a result of the administrative reform, the Government has strengthened the permissions of the new county road network. It has also been done by the Government through the National Transport Plan, where the Government has shown a willingness to invest heavily, both by road and by rail. We know that rail is primarily an offer for the large urban areas. The government has – and will have – a differentiated policy, where we focus most on public transport in and around the big cities, and where the investment on the road is the largest outside the big cities, where public transport is not an option for many.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e929	: Thank you again for your answer. I must again stress that these four cities obviously also need to expand and modernise and streamline their road networks. It is the starting point for both this and other questions related to the situation of big cities. A common feature of these packages is that projects are becoming more expensive and that traffic-restrictive measures actually reduce toll revenue, which is the main basis of future financing. The government is pursuing a policy that is actually in place to further reduce revenue, while increasing the share of toll financing in projects to be newly built. Will the Government compensate for the cost of projects and the reduction of toll revenue? How would you possibly want to do that? Or do you put yourself completely outside this picture and serve the entire bill to the drivers?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e938	As I said in my previous answer, there was a strong commitment from the Government on both road, rail and transport sectors overall over the next decade. In St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009, priorities on the national road network have been addressed. They are determined as government priorities. As soon as the state road and county councils have completed their management of the action programme for the forthcoming planning period, there will also be an overview of the combined efforts of the four metropolitan areas in the forthcoming planning period. There you will also find the answers requested here, the amount of government funds put in, and the amount of toll money that will be put in.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e948	This question, from the representative Ingjerd Schou to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e951	‘Users of collective solutions are concerned with availability, regularity and simple ticketing systems for trains, buses, trams, etc. Car users are offered AutoPASS in both toll stations and ferries. Will the Government issue a common ticketing system for all collective offers?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e958	Starting from St.meld. No 26 for 2001-2002 and in cooperation with local authorities, a common national standard for electronic ticketing for public transport was introduced in 2006. There is a suggestion that all companies that introduce electronic ticketing systems before public transport should base the new standard so that travellers can travel coherently from start to finish without having to dissolve a new ticket when they change means of transport or cross borders. The aim is to have a coherent payment system for the whole country, where county councils and operators can also develop products as common multi-journey cards and monthly cards where they are scarce. Common travel cards are currently in use in Oslo, Akershus, Rogaland, Oppland and Hedmark, but the work has come a long way elsewhere. According to St.prp. No 1 for 2009–2010, the Ministry of Transport and Regional Governance is working with regional regulators to establish a joint management company and to indicate between operators. The new company will be established and put into operation in 2010.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e967	Then I thank the Council of State for the answer. The government will certainly say that the government has good stand-ins in all areas. In this case, I think it is a very competent substitute for the Minister of Transport. Let me follow up anyway. I am a representative of the collective travellers. I travel a lot from Eastfold to Oslo and Akershus, and I buy two to three tickets to get through bus, train and T-Bahn. I feel that driving a car and paying a toll can be done without you noticing that you are through several systems – the same with a telephone. You can get a telephone contact all over the world, and you don't know which company. Is it the Government's intention to take the environmental challenges and climate challenges seriously here at home by making one ticket that can be used throughout the country – at all?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e976	As I did in my main reply, the Department is now working with regional authorities to establish a common travel card, just to achieve what the representative wants, that one should be able to use the same ticket on different modes of transport and in different geographical zones. It's a clear goal that we're going to get it done. It's a demanding job for the different levels and companies, and the important thing now is to set up a company that can manage a scheme and get a system to specify between the operators. It's possible to do that, and it's important that all the parties get involved in closing up with it, because I think it'll mean that a get bigger use of public transport, because it's very much about being easy in everyday life.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e983	I think it is very important that we, as elected representatives and governments and magnificence, have credibility both in relation to the travellers and the credibility of taking the climate challenges seriously. What the Council of State here says is uplifting. Now it's like working with the regional authorities, i.e. 19 pieces, are in themselves demanding, as is co-ordination against a common company. Is it true that the Council of State says that this should be put in place with solutions in 2010 – also an overall company with a common ticketing system?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e990	We are quite a few in terms of objectives and content here. What I said in my main response was that in 2010 a company would be set up to take responsibility for the administration of the system and specify between the operators. For one of the points that jumps, there is a way of giving up a single card so that no one should lose, and no one should focus on getting such a single card. After all, we have worked in common in both Bondevik II and this government. But as I said, it's a demanding job, and I think it's uplifting that we're now getting there that we're getting a company that takes a leading responsibility for getting the process properly done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1007	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1020	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1026	This question, from the representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1029	‘Every harvest the population of Finnmark experiences winter routes in air traffic. This means that the connection to Oslo is greatly weakened, with the result that very many have to fly over Tromsø or Alta and switch to Ontøe. This means that individuals, businesses and institutions have to pay much more to fly than by summer routes. Ticket tour-return Kirkenes–Oslo rarely costs more than NOK 3300, while the tour-return Tromsø–Kirkenes costs approx. NOK 5 500. What will the Council of State do to change today's regime?'
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1036	Norwegian aviation is part of an open European aviation market through the EEA Agreement. Within this liberalized regime, the general rule is that airlines themselves decide what route they want on their routes. The airlines also see their ticket prices. The State cannot oblige airlines to change the route offer or reduce ticket prices on commercial routes. On the other hand, the State can buy routes where the market does not produce a route on its own. In the 2010 state budget, we suggest that the State should purchase regional air routes for nearly 630 million. kr. But today, the purchase of state flights is mainly at regional airports. It has not yet been possible to take the routes between Finnmark and Austland out of the market and buy routes there, as long as there is a working route on commercial terms. Norway is a long and long-distance country, where aviation is a very important means of transport. I think it's good that the airlines have the opportunity to make commercial adjustments in their route offer, so they don't fly with many empty seats. I think it's a long-term goal to increase travel and activity in the north. Among other things, I hope and believe that the current investment in the tourism industry, where the government is also a driver, will provide the basis for an extended route offer and lower prices.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1047	I thank you for your answer. In many areas, Finnmark is not a state of the same line with most others. The need for flights is great, and that is why we have both two base aerodromes and nine runway aerodromes in Finnmark. It is clear that, on the one hand, it is a matter of safeguarding commercial interests for airlines, but on the other hand it is a question of meeting the need for societal development on a general basis. When we know that you have to pay as much for an airline ticket tour Tromsø – The Churches as you pay for an airline ticket trip-return America, it is clear that some grip has to be done. I want to ask the Council of State if it is not possible to go in and look at the concession period, and have the concession period extended for the Finnish Short Track Network in such a way that other competing companies are actually given the opportunity to enter the market.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1058	It has been a goal for the Government to extend concession time on the regional network. We have had many conversations with EU representatives on this issue, in order to extend the concession period and thus perhaps raise competition online. It's been a goal, it's been worked on, and it's also partially passed on, but not fully, as one might have liked it. It is a demanding exercise to be an operator of the regional aerodrome network. There might be a reason why a lot of companies that might want to try it out don't. It costs when it comes to equipment, and as I said, it's also demanding conditions to fly under. But the objective that the representative stands for, that we should have a social development and that the infrastructure contributed to it, we are quite a few.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1065	I think it was a rather defensive answer. Of course, I know that there will be work on the concession period, but the question is, When are we going to get this out in tender documents? There has been an ongoing process for very many years, and we see that very little happens. Clearly, both private individuals, businesses and institutions in Finnmark suffer from this in the winter months. That's almost how you have to ask: is it so that every man, in line with the Prime Minister's office, is going to have his own plane in order to get a connection for the people who are actually living with in the winter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1072	It is surprising that the right-wing representative, Fredriksen, is calling for stronger government governance. I actually thought the representative represented a party that had a different view, but it seems like a customization of vision, depending on the case. So in this case, a stronger state government wants to control commercial companies, which means to live in a market that's just run by the market. So that's in itself surprising. This government has made sure that we have good supplies on the regional airport network. Finnmark is particularly challenging with the large distances. In part, there are other parts of North Norway and parts of South Norway, but precisely because of this, we have increased the use of government funds significantly to finance a supply that works satisfactorily for most of the purposes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1082	This question, from Øyvind Halleraker to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1085	I have the following questions: ‘After the Government’s decision to introduce a biodiesel tax, we have seen that the industry expresses great concern about demand and profitability in the future. Right wants to contribute to more climate-friendly and neutral transport. Will the Government contribute by imposing requirements for all new taxis, ferries, buses, scheduled boats, diesel trains, municipal, county and state vehicles to run on emission-free or climate-neutral fuels within a given deadline?’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1094	The government's climate change objective is to reduce current and emerging greenhouse gas emissions by between 2,5 and 4 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in the transport sector compared to expected developments. The government uses a wide range of tools to achieve the climate target, including: a large-scale railway investment, increase access to the pay-as-you-go system for better public transport and less use of cars in cities, and various measures to stimulate the rapid phasing-in of low- and zero-emission vehicles, including: the charging system, social security schemes and means of research. Demand for biofuels is sustained by a strong and targeted agent, i.e. by sales. Norway has introduced a sales mandate for biofuels of 2,5 % by volume of road fuel. The government will send a proposal to step up the requirement, first to 3.5 pst. as fast as possible in 2010, and then to 5 pst. as soon as the biofuel yield criterion is well developed, if possible on 1 January 2011. The turnover requirement is a targeted measure that ensures a monthly demand for biofuels in Norway. The biofuels industry will also ensure a high level of biofuel demand through its renewable directive. Substitution of fossil fuels by biofuels will be an important contributor to achieving the EU's renewable target for the transport sector. In general, the State should be reluctant to impose cost-requiring requirements on public transport. Public transport competes with passenger cars, and the Government is busy ensuring a high level of competition in public transport. Requirements for zero-emission and zero-emission fuels entail substantial additional costs for both taxis, ferries, buses, scheduled boats, etc. In line with the established distribution of responsibilities between the administrative levels of my Government, county authorities make the best assessment of what is the best use of a given resource increase – more environmentally friendly buses, speedboats and taxis, or more departures, lower fares, etc.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1108	Thanks for the answer. I want to go a little bit further around the logic of this. Today, negotiations in Copenhagen are entering the final phase, and many are pessimistic about the outcome. Our own prime minister chooses to use private aircraft instead of traveling collectively on scheduled flights. Talk about the power of the example! Don't tell me that you don't really have ambitions on your own behalf, but still refer to the purchase of allowances from our unique wallet. With the Right's proposal, which we are discussing here, we could contribute to less pollution through concrete measures that really operationalize the celebrations of the Government. Does the Council not see this important point of also implementing measures at home that can contribute to lower emissions also here?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1117	The Prime Minister's journey, to which reference was made, I shall not go into anything, except to say that when one is going to enter the demanding negotiations, it is uncertain what time they will end – it may be late in the evening, in the middle of the night, or they may be going for longer than planned. The fact that the Prime Minister has the opportunity to also return to the demanding tasks in his home country, I think, makes sense. He also buys climate allowances for his flights. When it comes to the question, otherwise, I'm open to all the good suggestions. We want from the Government's side to participate in discussions with the opposition about what is the best way to get a carbon-neutral society, which is the goal ahead of time. We have done a lot in this area, not least in the transport sector, and more will happen. So we take along good input from both the representative here today and others in the further work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1124	The last thing sounded a little uplifting, then. With the government's slightly clumsy handling, with all due respect, of the biodiesel tax freshly in memory, I would nevertheless like to raise an important point in this context. Yesterday several of us had an exciting meeting with a company from Bergen, which is working on completing technology to produce 2nd generation bioethanol. It's a very exciting and promising project. They have little difficulty in financing for different reasons, but above all, they lack the political signals and decisions that can help increase demand for an important environmentally friendly fuel. Does the Council of State not see a context here, that we are actually facing a win-win situation by stimulating the use of more environmentally friendly fuels and by creating new businesses and new jobs?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1135	Just by having a marketing requirement, we will stimulate the demand for and use of biofuels. That is the whole purpose of the increase now being achieved by blending biofuels into ordinary fuels. But as I said before, I see that it is important to stimulate this further. In isolation, what we did with the current tax conversion will provide a better competitive situation for bioethanol compared to other types of biofuels. Looking isolated at this company as it was shown, it has actually got a better competitive base today than it had before this half charge was imposed from the New Year. But this is an important area to continue working on, not least in relation to 2nd generation biofuels, and we're going to keep working on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1144	This question, from Svein Harberg to the Minister for Transport, will be answered by the Minister for Local and Regional Affairs on behalf of the Minister for Transport.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1147	My question includes both the current and the previous Minister of Transport, so I live very well with the temporary worker today. The question is as follows: ‘E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger is of poor standard and is highly accident-affected. The first step needed to put in place a new road between Søgne and Ålgård is to put in place a draft selection investigation. The predecessors of the state council have repeatedly confirmed that this was to be ordered, and the state council itself confirmed during the opening of a new tunnel at Farsund recently that this would be ordered immediately. After what I experience, this is not yet done. Will the Council of State ensure that such an order is sent before the end of the year?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1156	The Ministry of Transport makes an overall assessment of which KS1 will be implemented as a basis for the next roll-out of the national transport plan. It will be worked for clarification as soon as possible in the new year of 2010. Then there will be a comprehensive letter of assignment to the Directorate of Roads. The implementation of KVU and KS1 for individual projects has already been clarified. These include the project that will be shown in the question. These projects will also be followed up in the general letter of assignment of the Directorate of Roads.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1163	I thank you for your answer. When I get that confirmation, I know that it starts to feel good. I must be allowed to say that it has been promised before, so I am even happier when this order has been sent, and I hope that happens immediately after the New Year. It is such that the work on trasé selection and any subsequent planning work takes a long time, and it is important to be in advance. One important aspect of this is that this uncertainty about things to happen in many contexts causes a developmental halt in municipalities. There has been a lot of interpretation about the lack of zeal after getting KVU in place. The question has been: can the lack of zeal be interpreted as a sign that here we have very good time because there is no money coming to these roads anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1170	The last thing I have to say is an error interpretation. What will be given priority in the next period will be a matter where they start work now. It's not like this is a postponing. This is about an ordinary procedure where a letter of assignment is sent to the Swedish Road Administration at the Road Directorate, and they go through all the projects. It also includes, as I said, the project on E39 between Kristiansand and Stavanger and Søgne and Ålgård, which is particularly mentioned in this question. In addition, it is also announced that KVU will be launched on the E39 Aksdal–Bergen, including Hordfast, and on the E39 from Skei and northwards. What has been said in this field will be followed up. It is important that they have local confidence that one follows what one has said.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1175	I thank you for that clarification. Then we're going to deal with that interpretation and make sure that we follow it up, along with the Government, so that's where we're going to hang. Another thing about these concept selection studies is that the management teams have been very different in structure around. It has been from the fact that the county councils have been in the driver's seat, to the fact that they have not been in at all. This creates some uncertainty around local districts. The county has tasks as a regional developer and has also become the major road manager. So the logic suggests that the management group for a concept selection study should be broadly composed. Does the Council of State feel that it is natural to include county councils and, where appropriate, municipalities in the management groups and, if so, will it take action to ensure that this is practice?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1182	As a regional developer, it is important that the county is involved and able to premise on local and regional processes. Then we're going to set up a process for this work that I, the Council of State, thought is hard to put forward. But on a general basis, I would say – and I know that I can also say on behalf of the government council, Meltveit Kleppa: I am busy – and for the entire government, we are busy – including the regional level in the regional processes. So on a general basis, I can at least say that it is important that we have the good interaction that I, as Minister of Transport, felt that I had with the county councils in the planning work. It is absolutely crucial that both the county and the municipality arrive at an early stage and be present and make their premises. I think it saves us too much conflict afterwards, and that we get faster and better processes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1190	‘What reductions in greenhouse gas emissions can the red-green government refer to under the responsibility of the Minister of Health and Care since accession in 2005 and how do the Council of State assess these results in relation to Norway’s national greenhouse gas reduction target?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1195	Thank you for your question. The health and care sectors must, in line with all other sectors of society, take responsibility for the climate challenge. The Climate Communication sets its own emission targets for four main sectors. No specific sectoral policy target has been set for greenhouse gas emissions from the health and care sectors. Nor does the Ministry have an active follow-up or overview of greenhouse gas emissions in our sector. However, the health and care sector should be responsible for reducing emissions, inter alia through: an active relationship with energy use, waste management and transport. This has been particularly followed up in the new hospital projects, for example: Akershu University Hospital, Aarhus, as well as have introduced new large-scale heating technologies, and this is an ambitious project in the European context. The Ministry of Health and Health is following up climate policy through the governance of regional health businesses. With a building mass of approx. 4 million m2 contribute to significant greenhouse gas emissions by health enterprises. Health enterprises are required to follow up Action Plan 2007–2010 for the Environment and Social Responsibility in Public Acquisitions. The plan shall contribute to the advance of the public as the responsible consumer and the demand for environmentally friendly goods and services. The specialist health service purchases equipment, consumables and services for more than 16 billion dollars a year. Thus, undertakings can contribute to a positive impact on producers and suppliers. In the last two years, the Ministry has called on regional health businesses to join forces to develop dialogue with suppliers in order to contribute to a good national climate policy. This includes the choice of products, production, packaging, transport and certification schemes. Regional health enterprises are required to identify environmental measures with a transfer value. They shall also investigate possible new climate measures in the specialist health service. From this year on, an environment and climate forum has been established in which all regional health businesses and health businesses are represented. They are working to find appropriate environmental and climate indicators suitable for reporting. Although the climate agreement was a major step forward for climate policy, the measures in the conciliation are unlikely to be sufficient to achieve the climate objectives. That is why the Government has set up the Climate Change 2020 trade group. There were already a few months after the 2008 climate agreement in Stortinget. The climate change report coming in February 2010 shall include the most comprehensive menu of new instruments and measures ever presented in Norway. The government will review the proposals in the Climate Action Programme carefully, and submit to the Storting an assessment of climate policy and the need for changed instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1217	I thank you for your answer. As the Council of State says, the Ministry of Health and Welfare is responsible for a significant mass of buildings, including: all hospitals. The state council here explains, is very positive if all of these plans come up and stand. But I also understand that the Ministry of Health and Health has no specific goal of any active follow-up to the results, but that would have been desirable. I hope that the Council of State will come back to that, and that perhaps she could say a little about how she intends to follow up construction projects in the health and care sector after the climate agreement, which she herself was in for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1224	As I said, you don't measure sectors, like the health and care sector, as a whole sector, but you try to go into areas, for example. transport, energy use, heating, etc. Follow-up to construction projects is of course important, but it is even more important to plan well to keep energy consumption as low as possible. We know that this is precisely where the good climate gains can come from, for example. oil fires for other types of heating, as has been done in many places. There's a lot of focus on this, of course primarily for the environment and the climate, but also for the sake of profitability. Just in this area, it pays to be environmentally friendly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1229	And in that context, it would be interesting to know what can actually be saved in the healthcare sector – a saving that can be used for more healthcare. The climate agreement states that: ‘Actual requirements for energy use and supply in public works projects shall be laid down. The requirements should, as far as practicable, be more stringent than the minimum requirements of the technical regulation’. The question will then be: Will the Council of State ensure that, with regard to the new building projects in the health and care sector, energy use requirements are more stringent than the general energy requirements of new buildings?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1239	It's very important to focus on what can be saved, precisely because this is a total building mass of 4 million m2. There's a lot of space, and it's clear that using energy in the most efficient way possible is important. In the case of new buildings, there are requirements for rehabilitation, which are also very important in this context, because new ways of using energy can be changed, while at the same time making it possible to streamline energy use, which is a very strong objective, both for climate reasons and for economic reasons.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1252	My question to the Minister of Health and Welfare is: ‘Does the Government intend to submit proposals for the planned development of the overall drug-dependent service provision, in accordance with the model set out in the Road to Mental Health Plan?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1259	Drug abuse is a serious social problem. The government’s drug policy aims to reduce the negative consequences of drug use both for individuals and for society. The action plan for the drug field, which ends in 2010, is based on the fact that the whole drug field is to be seen in the context and anchored in the Government’s overall policy. The plan lays down, among other things: emphasis on increased user involvement and obligatory interaction between levels and between professional groups. Efforts in the drug field have been significantly strengthened through the escalation plan we have now had for four years, ending next year. The appropriations have been increased by 835 million. kr during the period, and according to the Health Directorate, almost all the 150 measures in the plan will be implemented by the end of 2010. Nevertheless, we must recognise that there are still many unsolved tasks both in the municipalities and in the specialist health service, and there is a need to strengthen and develop services, while increasing efforts for public health and prevention. In response to this, the cooperation reform must be dealt with in the Stortingen Spring. The reform shows that it is important to develop the provision of services to people with drug problems as part of the regular provision of health and care. A key challenge here is to establish good patient patterns, so that drug addicts feel that there is a link in the services they receive. This will affect both municipal and specialist health services. The government has asked the government to propose a stronger commitment to overall drug treatment and follow-up from June this year, and I will consider following up the plan with a new long-term strategy that looks at the challenges in the field of drugs. I will continue to work on which form can be the most appropriate for such a strategy. We have gained important experience through the escalating plan for the drug field. Next year is the last year. Experience shall be summarised and used as a basis for further development of the field. The government has reduced a public sample, the Stoltenberg Committee, which will propose how the most needy drug addicts can get better help. The development of the drug field must also be seen in the context of the Government’s efforts to prevent poverty, the efforts to reduce homelessness and mental health. The government’s drug policy is based on cross-departmental cooperation and cross-border cooperation. Norway’s wide international involvement in the field of alcohol and drugs also contributes to the prevention of drug problems in Norway. The government will invite you to a broad and inclusive process. We will strengthen the dialogue with the municipalities through the Municipal Councils and cooperate with the specialist health services, the county councillors and other stakeholders. Organisations for users and relatives and other voluntary and public bodies will of course also be important in this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1278	In the answer, the Minister of Health said that she would assess how she would follow up the plan that had been. But in Prop. 1 S from the Ministry of Health and Welfare on the State Budget for 2010 the Government writes on page 112: «Based on Stortinget's treatment of St.meld. No 47 [[2008-2009]] My question to the Council of State is: does that mean that what one of the proposals on landfills says that one should come along, that is, a proposal, has now become an ‘estimate’ to make a proposal?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1288	I can calm down that we're going to come back. The question is more what form the proposal should take, i.e. what form this strategy should take. That is what has not yet been decided on. But we're going to come back. We see the need for that. But it is also important, in the last year of the escalation plan, to look at the measures that have been taken. There are, after all, quite a number of measures. We have to look at what has worked, and what has not worked, before we add up to the new strategy. Then we'll come back to the Storing with what form this is going to take.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1295	This new plan — or what it may become — is linked to the St.meld. No 47 for 2008-2009 on the Cooperation Reform. I have to ask the Council of State: what is the main reason why this matter is so closely linked to the Cooperation Reform? Does this mean that the Government plans to change the distribution of responsibilities in the area of drug treatment, which is currently between the community health service and the specialist health service?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1300	Now this message is in Stortinget. Of course, the specialist health service should still do its job. What is important, however, in the context of the Interaction Reform, is to achieve a better patient life, not to be allowed to stay between different stages of patient treatment or handling, as has been the case. It is clear that drug users, who are a large group and need a lot of healthcare, will be very important in this context. Then there is one responsibility that is changed to the extent in the Cooperation Reform, if it is adopted in the form proposed by the Government. It is that there is a greater responsibility for the municipalities to take care of the health of the inhabitants, i.e. to have responsibility for following the different races.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1307	We're now dealing with question 4.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1313	This question, from the representative Peter Skovholt Gitmark to the Minister of Defence, will be answered by the Minister of Justice on behalf of the Minister of Defence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1316	I have the following questions to the Council of State: ‘How has the development of greenhouse gas emissions been within the responsibility of the Minister of Defence since the accession of the Red-Green Government in 2005, how does the Council of State assess these results in relation to Norway’s national greenhouse gas reduction target and how can the Defence contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the future?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1323	On behalf of the Minister of Defence, I will answer this important question. Climate challenges have a high focus in the defence sector. Reducing greenhouse gas emissions in the defence sector is a challenge, while maintaining operational capacity. Important contributions are to reduce the use of energy and to apply renewable energy sources in buildings and installations. With the support of Enova, two projects were launched in defence in 2006, one on energy management and one Enok project. The objective is an annual reduction in the energy consumption of the building mass of 90 gigawatt hours, GWh, as well as conversion from fossil-energy heating to 75 GWh CO2 neutral energy sources. The programme focuses on communication, information, motivation and training. Measures to replace heating centres based on fossil energy sources are implemented by heat pump and bio-fuel technologies. Such conversion measures entail a reduction in greenhouse gas emissions related to heating of more than 60 pst. The defense's facilities at Rena, Setermoen and Elverum – these are places I know very well – get heat based on bioenergy or district heating. These are very important bioenergy projects, at least the ones I know at Rena and Elverum. The main sources of climate emissions are aircraft and vessels. During the last period, the government decided to rebuild the North Cape class craft of the Coast Guard to reduce emissions of nitrogen oxides by 30 pst. The conversion also results in 5 pst. reduction of CO2 emissions. Otherwise, the Coast Guard's three new gas-powered vessels in the Barents Sea class are in delivery. Vessels will have 25 pst. lower CO2 emissions than equivalent diesel-powered vessels. In addition, the continued increased use of simulator training, which would otherwise use a vehicle, vessel or aircraft, provides a clear climate benefit – a major benefit to be reaped, among others. at the training centre of Rena. All acquisitions of new materials, goods and services shall be subject to environmental requirements, including energy efficiency, energy consumption and emissions. The emission requirements for the acquisition of vehicles not used for defence-specific activities will be strengthened from 2010. The level of activity of defence in Norway and participation in foreign operations will be crucial for the overall environmental impact of the sector. As part of improving the environmental performance, the Ministry of Defence will issue environmental guidelines with effect from 1 January 2010. Following the adoption of the Climate Change Agreement in the United Kingdom in 2008, the Government set up the Climate Change Group in 2020. The Climate Action Report, which is now produced by the State Pollution Control Authority and other departments, will show how Norway will be able to achieve the climate objectives of reducing emissions by 15 to 17 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent compared to the reference path as presented in the 2007 national budget. After Climate Change, the Government will therefore present to the Storting an assessment of climate policy and the need for changed instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1354	I thank you for your answer. As the Council of State is not the relevant Council of State, I refrain from further follow-up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1364	This question, from the representative Arve Kambe to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1367	It is nice that the Minister of Justice should answer questions about the beach zone, especially when he is from Gjøvik! I allow myself to ask the following questions: ‘Many coastal municipalities, individuals and businesses have protested in the context of proposals for government planning guidelines for differentiated coastal zone management. Before the regulation is finally adopted, it is reported that different states practice interpretations of naust, quays and docks differently. In nested areas no berths or berths shall be allowed in front of the naus. Will the Council of State follow the hearings of the coastal municipalities of the West asking for more flexible interpretation and more local self-government?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1378	This is a matter that has topicality in addition to the Ministry of the Environment. As a lawyer and lawyer, I know well the law and the disputes that come into the wake of it. I am a seaman from the interior, from Elverum, and there are limited cases from there, but there are nevertheless important national interests to balance against the local maritime administration in these kinds of cases. Local maritime governance is important, but it is also important to take into account overall interests and the environment, including in relation to the coastal zone. The ban on construction in the 100 meter belt along the sea is continued in the new plan section of the Planning and Building Act, which is in force from 1 July this year. The 100 meter belt has national interest. In this context, it shall not be permitted to develop inappropriately at the expense of the general interest, such as outdoor life, biodiversity, landscapes and cultural memories. Under the new law, municipalities retain responsibility for planning. Members of the population shall assist the municipalities in their work and take care of national concerns, including: The beach zone. In the context of the entry into force of the new law, the Minister for the Environment, at the hearing, sent a proposal for government planning guidelines for differentiated management of the beach area. The aim of the guidelines is to avoid adverse developments in the coastal zone, while taking into account differences in coastal conditions. Different guidelines have therefore been proposed for key areas where land pressure is high and for areas with less land pressure. Where there's less pressure, there's a little more room to facilitate expansion. This development must be clarified through municipal planning. The bit-by-bit development that takes place through the dispensation today is no use – it really undermines the entire legislation. The municipality's own population is not worthy of that either. This also applies to brews and nests. The proposal for guidelines has waited enough to trigger a very strong commitment, and that's very good. The basic commitment could help to actually get well-functioning and good rules in this area. The Ministry of the Environment has received approx. 135 Opinions. They have received opinions from many municipalities in the West, also from municipalities in Rogaland. The proposal is now being examined on the basis of what has been included in the consultation. The guidelines shall be adopted by the King before they can be put into effect, which the Minister for the Environment expects to take place in the new year. But it is necessary to return to the weight and value of the concrete evaluations and hearings when this comes about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1395	The response of many along the coast is as follows: new state guidelines are perfectly appropriate for municipalities to deal with. What is not right, as very many municipalities, builders and landowners have protested out loud, is that 14 out of 26 municipalities in Rogaland are proposed with the strictest conditions, i.e. in line with the areas around Oslofjorden. Those who have taken the journey to the nature of the West know that there is obviously a solid difference. As far as Hordaland is concerned, there is an even greater difference. It is a major violation of developments in the West to which the Government here submits. So it's like the statesmen before the regulation is made, they're already in free dressage – I'm almost going to call it – and they're doing their own interpretations of the regulations. Among other things, the rivets in Hordaland have a maximum limit of 40 m2, while in Rogaland it is 30 m2. How will the Council of State contribute to the effective conduct of a consistent liberal practice by the Government?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1408	To the extent that you sketch this as an assault, at least the assault is not executed, since we are now in the process of hearing. The representative, Mr Kambe, is now using a good opportunity to exercise further pressure in relation to a number of points of view. And if you want a more liberal and predictable practice, it's a political stance. I think the two considerations that the Minister of the Environment and the Government have emphasised in this are absolutely crucial, and sometimes they are contradictory: that one wants the beach zone to be available to most of us, and not to be built down by those who have a lot of money, must be a good one. At the same time you want to see differentiated on it. Hearing recordings will help us to get more predictability, and not least to have a rational use of the beach zone — just seeing differences in the coastal zones around Norway and wanting to be flexible in relation to it. I believe that the course that the Government has just set up is not an attack, but actually creates a sustainable policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1417	So the statesmen have already started the intensification with the basis of the new planning and building law before the new regulation comes. The County Environmental Protection Officer of Hordaland says that in the near future no construction will be allowed. In other words, a nerve that logically is built to have a boat inside, will not be allowed in the future to have a berth, a bridge or a floating bridge outside of it, because it is one for significant intervention in the beach zone. What is then the next question is: The governments Stoltenberg and Jagland have previously introduced Brustadbua. Is there now «Solheimboden» to be introduced, with strict regulation throughout the coast of Norway and complete limitation for future naust?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1424	This is a policy to ensure people's access to very important parts of Norway. I hope that debate will move at a different level than you get the characteristics, so let that questioner now launch. I believe that large sections of the population are very concerned about this issue — ensuring access to some of the most beautiful areas in Norway and also having opportunities for active recreation. So you make proposals for a regulation and now work with guidelines to help make the rules flexible, so that you take into account that there are some areas where you can allow some more construction. The overall perspective I have to say is very positive, and I think the people also understand why this is done.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1434	This question, from Siri A. Meling to the Minister for the Environment and Development, will be answered by the Minister for Justice on behalf of the Minister for the Environment and Development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1437	I have the following questions for the Minister for the Environment and Development: ‘What reductions in greenhouse gas emissions can the Council of State refer to since the accession of the Government of Stoltenberg II in 2005 and how do the Council of State assess these results in relation to Norway’s national greenhouse gas reduction target?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1444	I will therefore answer this very important question on behalf of the Minister for the Environment – and the Minister for the Environment has a valid maturity today. For the big, big grip on greenhouse gas emissions, we're waiting to hear about from Copenhagen, and that's where he is. There is reason to thank for many good issues about climate in the United Kingdom today, mainly because of the wide-ranging responsibility – making all sectors responsible. I had really expected as Minister of Justice to also get questions about what we're doing in the police and in the prisons when it comes to this. Despite increased petroleum production, despite increased prosperity and therefore increased transport activity, and despite population growth, the total Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions are not higher now than in 1999. The opposition is sometimes trying to draw a picture of emissions rising year by year, but figures from the Central Statistical Agency and the State Pollution Control Office show that emissions were 53.8 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent in 1999 and that they were actually also 53.8 million tonnes in 2008. Some claim that the Norwegian climate policy has not worked. Some time ago, the Ministry of Environment produced a report to the United Nations Convention on Climate Change, which showed that emissions in 2010 would actually be about 10 million tonnes lower than they could be, precisely because we have an active climate policy. I believe, however, that we must all agree that emissions would be much lower than they are today. According to the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change, global emissions growth must turn back by 2015 if we are to avoid dangerous climate change. And in the climate agreement between the red-green government and the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, there is a consensus that Norway will become a low-carbon society. During the review of the Climate Change Communication, it was agreed that by 2020 it is realistic to reduce emissions in Norway by 15-17 million tonnes of CO2 equivalent compared to the reference path as presented in the 2007 national budget — when forests are included. In line with the principle of sectoral responsibility in environmental protection policy, the Climate Communication set its own emission targets for four main sectors. The government is continuously following up the climate agreement. However, the challenge is not that the climate agreement is not adequately followed up. The challenge is that although the climate agreement was a major step forward for climate policy, the measures in the conciliation are probably not enough in relation to our climate objectives. Therefore, the government is constantly looking for ways to extend the climate toolkit. Therefore, the Government set up the Climate Change 2020 trade group, which has been heard by the Stortinget from the respective sectors several times today. It was reduced only a few months after the adoption of the climate agreement at Stortinget in 2008. In February, the Climate Action Report, which is now produced by the SFT and other agencies, will provide the most comprehensive menu of new instruments and measures ever presented in Norway. The Klimakur report will show how Norway can achieve the climate objectives. Following the presentation of a climate change policy in February, the Government will carefully consider the various proposals and submit to the Stortinget an assessment of climate policy and the needs for changing instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1467	I thank you for your answer. I fully understand that the Minister for the Environment and Development is today in Copenhagen and not here to answer questions. There is a lot of work to be done in Copenhagen, but there is also a need for a grip at home. We have discussed this earlier today with regard to the incineration tax on waste, which leads to waste from Norway crossing the border with Sweden for incineration there. I appreciate the fact that the Minister of Justice has missed asking questions about his own sector, so I use the opportunity in my follow-up questions to ask what the Minister of Justice is doing in his own area to improve the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1474	Thank you very much. With respect to reporting: I think it is very good to ask the specialist councils, and not just the Environment Minister, about this. Because if we're going to achieve the national goal, both private and public, we're totally dependent on the public, and we're professionally responsible, going ahead. It is the same process that has been chosen for both the police and the prison, and when we build new houses of property – as outlined by other government councils, and also by me on behalf of other state councils today – to look at opportunities to get to, among other things. reducing energy use and finding other types of energy that are more environmentally friendly. What we are particularly concerned about are the large buildings we have, especially the prison buildings – to ensure that they can be operated gradually in a way that makes it possible, among other things, to operate. uses bioenergy to reduce emissions. We also have a vehicle – which we can't reach now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1483	We have to expect that there will be some measures to be taken at home in the wake of the Copenhagen meeting, and there was a playback from top business leaders in the week that went by. They were committed to ensuring Norway the same climate rules as its competitors. We're also very concerned about that in the right. So my question to the Council of State is whether the Government also wants to ensure a level playing field in climate regulations for our industry and our business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1488	This is, of course, a topic which has both an economic policy aspect, an international aspect and, to a certain extent, an environmental policy aspect, so I have to be careful, as it is not exactly my core areas. We realize that part of our challenges lies here, in ensuring that business has sustainability and framework conditions that are competitive, and at the same time, as I perceive the questioner is very committed to, that Norway does not actually fail to lead the way at home as a good example. It's probably about finding a balance. I believe that that balance point can be particularly exciting in those areas where we see that we can gain competitive advantage because we take environmental considerations – I understand that the Minister of Industry has also replied to it in Stortinget today – that we can actually beat two flies in one taste: having the best framework conditions and at the same time the best environmental policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1498	I have a very brief question to the Council of State: ‘The Trondheim police will notify employers of those who are taken for the purchase of sex. Is this form of public humiliation in line with the Council of State’s legal position and will the Council of State permit the employer to be withdrawn?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1507	Thank you very much for your question. It's very good that I get the question here, because then I get an opportunity to tell you a little bit more about what we actually mean when we've commented on it out in the media. I am not a follower of public humiliation and a general warning to all employers, no matter what kind of criminal offences you are being charged with. The main principle of alerting and alerting is probably enshrined in the police's obligation of professional secrecy. It is an obligation that initially prevents criminal information from being made available to individuals, regardless of who they are, including employers of persons under investigation. In some cases, however, the police are required to assess whether certain facts should be reported. If a public official is intended for a criminal offence of such a nature as to be likely to have consequences for his or her position as an official, the police shall inform his or her nearest officer — equivalently if a person engaged in the activities of a public authority is intended for an act likely to affect his or her authorisation. It can be done, for example. be the case in part of the problems we have seen in the taxi industry. In many cases the competent public authority must be informed. Police are also required to assess whether information is to be made available to non-public bodies where it is necessary to prevent infringements. Careful and concrete assessment is required before such information is provided. I do not currently see the need to regulate this area more closely with new guidelines, and that would allow for such a warning in general, whether it concerns sex buyers or others, which you can get the impression that has been the case, when you read the newspapers. It is then clear that the police cannot routinely notify employers of employees who are being fined for the purchase of sexual services. It'll only be in more specific cases this will be correct. The new ban on the purchase of sexual services challenges the police in many ways. The challenges are precisely to assess the cases in which notification can and should be made when persons in different professions are targeted at violating the prohibition. The ban was introduced, inter alia: as an action to combat trafficking in human beings in Norway. South-Trundellag police districts have shown on a number of occasions that, in close cooperation with the State Attorney's Office, they have been able to grasp this complex type of case. They have done a very good job – and it is all the way back to the time of the previous government. That's very good. It's been, I was saying, the pilot, the primus engine. In-depth investigations have been carried out with good results. The district has developed good understanding and competence in the prostitution markets in the district. It is therefore not surprising that this police district is now taking an interest in the prostitution client group and is investigating whether notifications to the employer are necessary in certain cases. I have been informed that Sør-Trøndelag police district has so far not sent a message to any employer that employees have been taken for the purchase of sexual services, but I feel sure that the day you do it, if any, the decision will be in accordance with the applicable legislation in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1526	I thank you for your answer. I also perceive that the tone of the Council of State was now much more in line with my opinion than what has been expressed in the media, can indicate. But what I think is that the Trondheim police have left behind as an opinion opinion, is that this should in some way be used as a scare. If you use warnings from employers because of the regulated things that the Council of State did well, it is in a way within our legal system, but going out into the media and wanting to use the gap stick as a scare – that you should alert the employer – I don't think it falls within the ordinary legal opinion of people. So I just want the Council of State to make it clear that that's not how we're going to use this code, that's not what the legislation is all about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1533	It is obvious that there should be no general warning on the part of the employer in these cases. As I said in my answer, we have no intention of extending the legislation in this area. In fact, we believe that the homes are good enough. They're very tight, and it should be a very necessity criterion to address it. I have expressed this in response to a written question from the representative of Hofstad Helleland, Document No. 15:143. There I said the same thing as I say now. The press has referred to the answer in such a way that you should almost get the impression that this is quite right. But it's not. There are very tight, clear and clear frameworks – as I mentioned in my main response – and we have no intention of expanding them. I don't believe in that kind of solution. When there's a proposal from the police, I'm in line with the Left: people get outside and make suggestions, and then we get to debate it, as we do now. But when the boundaries are set, I don't think there's much distance between the questioner and the signed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1540	We're getting closer to an agreement. There are, of course, criminal cases in which there is a public debate about whether you should know who you have in the neighborhood. This applies, for example: in connection with child abuse. That's why I think the playout is out of proportion when you're going to alert the employer and hang out on this case, which is not necessarily about trafficking in human beings, but about breaking a law. It can, taken out of context, break very much with people's sense of justice when we agree that we should not make the big warnings about other types of crimes that citizens have committed. So it's important that the Trondheim Police, who have done a good job in a lot of this area, do not, in their eagerness, lose their perspective on what types of assaults you're actually involved in fighting, and who it's important to fight.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1547	I fully agree with the representative's considerations about this, but at the same time I am very safe in the Trondheim police. I'm not sure if the presentation of their views gives them the greatest justice, because these are engaged policemen who want to do what they can to specifically stop human trafficking. Then it's like that for the Trondheim Police as it is for the police all over the country, that you have to follow the very strict rules we have when it comes to notifying of criminal offences. In principle, the obligation of professional secrecy applies.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1557	It's fun to right that the Right gets credit for good questions in the hall today. I hope that my question to the Minister of Oil and Energy also falls in good soil: ‘The production and consumption of energy is the main source of greenhouse gas emissions globally. What will the Council of State do before its field of expertise to reduce greenhouse gas emissions in Norway?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1566	Yes, I had basically written with a ballpoint pen in the margin here that I think – and I should also say – that it is a big and important question the representative addresses. It was so big that it was a major factor in the climate agreement in Stortinget. It's got its own process, its own follow-up after it again, and we're from the Government's side now inside the interview around the many times earlier today mentioned Climate Change 2020. This will be presented in the course of the year as a basis for a wide-ranging debate. The big discussion about power generation and climate emissions will take place then, but I'm going to say a little bit about how I think about it now. Then we get back to some of the details and the alignment of this over New Year's. Taking environmental and climate considerations into account is an integral part of the Norwegian energy policy. As a result, we see among other things. CO2 emissions per the unit produced on the continental shelf, which is essential in terms of power generation, is among the lowest in the world. We have had a special Norwegian CO2 tax since 1991. We walked in front of that time and did something that not many other countries did then. It has also been continued even though the petroleum sector is now linked to the EU ETS. So we've gone ahead and got results from it. The approval process of the expansion and operation plan also ensures that the chosen expansion solutions comply with the overall climate requirements we set for the base. For more than 10 years, the builders have been required to perform operations based on power from land. The situation is now that the fields Worm Lange, Snow White, Gjøa, Valhalla and Troll A have power from land. The energy demand in the Goliath field, for which the Stortinget decided to expand in the spring session, will also be partially covered by land-based power from the start of production. A process has been initiated to facilitate full electrification. What makes us unable to go any further in electrification of Goliath now is simply that the supply of energy in Finnmark is demanding. We need multiple lines towards the northern part of Finnmark to be able to go for full electrification. What we've achieved through this is that today we produce approximately. one third of the gas on Norwegian base based on power from land. That's a not insignificant number. I believe that force from land is a realistic alternative to new self-developments and when major changes take place in old fields, such as urban areas. the Valhalla already mentioned. However, force from land can affect security of supply on land, and that is why we need to include it in the assessments, as I also mentioned. In the energy efficiency of the petroleum installations we have come a long way, but the aim must be to go beyond what we have done so far. I believe it is a potential to use the energy offshore more efficiently than today, and will focus heavily on it in the work on and the interview around Climate Change 2020. Then we put considerable emphasis on CO2 management. That technology shall contribute to emission reductions both nationally and internationally. It was of the things I was busy showing my American colleague when he was here at the end of last week, and looking at the possibilities that Norway and the United States can work together to get the emissions down by getting that technology available as soon as possible. Furthermore, the Government works with the establishment of a common electricity certificate market with Sweden. We have a comprehensive commitment through Enova to the renewable part of energy production and also energy saving as part of it. For the period 2006-2010, the Government has allocated approximately DKK 13 billion to renewable energy, energy efficiency improvement and carbon capture and storage. We have also tripled the appropriations for research and development in these areas. I mentioned in the introduction that climate change 2020 is the overall framework around this. That means, in conclusion, that I want to refer to the process that is going on until the Storting gets a broad and hopefully good debate on the important topic that is being addressed in the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1601	I thank you for the answer and for the exciting thoughts about electrifying the socket. Norway is today an energy storm power. We have great potential to supply and supply clean, renewable energy to Europe that can reduce polluting coal-fired power stations, etc. in Europe. My second question is: What strategy should Norway choose in order to be able to contribute to reducing greenhouse gas emissions in Europe?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1610	I think the most important recognition we have to make in this way is that producing more renewable energy and being able to contribute to reduced emissions in Europe requires some compromises. It requires some decisions that may also be difficult. In this way, the representative Lødemel and I have previously had some discussions about power lines and how to deal with them. I have to say that we in Norway have a need in the future to have more pressure, faster progress in terms of network deployment and network development in Norway if we are to succeed in that intention, which I share with the representative Lødemel. So I think we also have to be honest that it's going to require some difficult decisions, for which it won't always be fully understood by everyone. But it's probably a reality if you're going to get what's being asked.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1617	I am very pleased with the signal when it comes to online policy – an offensive online policy. Right, we really want an offensive web policy, both in order to develop clean renewable energy and in order to take care of the important landscapes we have, especially in the West. Today’s Business Today says: ‘Terje Riis-Johansen indicates that sea cable assessments versus air voltage will be made over Hjørundfjorden, Sykkylvsfjorden and Storfjorden.’ It is an important stretch on the new 420 kV powerline that will go between Ørskog on Sunnmøre and Fardal in Sogn and Fjordane. What does the Council of State put in this quote?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1629	I've also seen what's going on in today's business today, and I think it might be good to get this opportunity, from the pulpit, to elaborate that in the work to be done in relation to fjord crossings on that trail, it is also that we should investigate alternative air voltages. The article could seem to be talking only about cable alternatives, but that is not true. So it's important that with such a big line-up as we talk about in relation to Ørskog–Fardal, different alternatives are tested, viewed and evaluated because the consequences are usually large, as there are interventions we're talking about. But, as I said in a little general form instead: I don't think we're going to get beyond the fact that in this area, too, we're going to demand something from us, that there are some compromises that need to be made. It is not that we are able to obtain renewable energy without it appearing, without anyone thinking it would be better to choose other solutions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1645	I would like to ask the Minister for Culture the following questions: ‘In the press release of 8 December 2009, the Council of State announced that the Government was not in favour of financial support for Norwegian-Swedish Football-EM in 2016. The decision was published the day after the quality assurance report was handed over to the Ministry, a report which, according to the Council of State, was to form part of the decision-making basis. How was this report addressed in the Government, which departments were involved, and how was this report checked against the professional objections of the NFF to the report?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1654	Let me first point out that the decision to say no to State aid to a Norwegian-Swedish European Football Championship has been taken after an overall assessment and a thorough examination of the invitation of the Norwegian Football Federation to dialogue on state subsidies. It was handed over to the Ministry of Culture on 2 September this year. Throughout the autumn, the relevant departments and agencies have worked on issues related to Euro 2016. In addition, an external quality assurance of the football association’s treatment has been carried out. The quality assurance report is therefore one of several elements on which the Government’s decision is based. The need to establish a common organisation of the Swedish Government is another important element. The representative, Håbreck, suggests with his question that the decision to reject State aid the day after the quality assurance report was available was premature. To that I would say exactly the same thing as I said on the day I received the report, that I have been familiar with the main conclusions of a preliminary report a few weeks before the final report was available. I can also assure the representative that I have discussed this matter with my colleagues in the Government and that the entire Government is behind that resolution. It is correct, as the representative of Håbreek said, that the Football Association had objections to some parts of the report. I don't want to go into a discussion about details. But I would like to stress that the decision to say no to State aid is based on an overall assessment, where the quality assurance report is included as part of several premises. The fact that there may be disagreement on individual elements in the report does not affect the decision itself.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1669	I thank you for your answer. But I have to say that it confirms the impression that this has been a kind of game for the gallery when you receive a rather heavy and comprehensive report on a Tuesday and have the conclusion ready on Wednesday after. It is also said that this has been discussed in the Government. It is difficult to imagine that one could have had the opportunity to go through the final report in an adequate manner with the Departments and the Football Association in a short time. The question remains: how much did this Econ report cost, and does the Council of State understand that football-Norway and the Football Association can feel tricked after such a process?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1678	Quality assurancers have been in dialogue with the Football Association during their work on quality assurance. There has also been good dialogue with the Football Association and my department along the way. Specific questions about how much this quality assurance report has cost can be answered in the form of letters, but it has probably cost millions. This shows that we have done a very thorough and serious treatment of the football association. I would say that this has been a very thorough process. The ministries have made their own assessments on an independent basis. We have received the preliminary quality assurance report a few weeks in advance. We have had good contact with the Swedish government. All these elements have been the basis for the overall assessment made by the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1685	A football-EM is actually the third largest sports event in the world. It is a huge mobilization from one of the large voluntary organisations in the country that is behind such an application process – and there was a great opportunity for a people's party for the whole nation. I respect that the conclusion should not necessarily be accepted after the government's treatment, for there are many issues that need to be assessed, but I think the Council's response helps to confirm that the report has not been thoroughly addressed and that no time has been taken to discuss the counter-arguments with the Football Association in the short time. I ask the question: What does the Council of State think this sends to other organisations in Sport-Norway that might want to organise sports events later?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1692	The signal we're sending to sports Norway is that when you're going to spend public resources at a big public party, we have to know that this is going to be a real people's party, and that the money we spend on public funds is spent in a sensible way. I think that not only the sport is earned, but also the Stortinget, who will manage the money in a sensible way. So it's clear that we have to go through this process and see if anything could have been done differently. It is quite right, as the representative, Håbreek, says, that the Football Federation has invested enormous resources in designing its proposal, and there has been a great deal of local involvement. There are many parts of that invitation to dialogue from the Football Association that are very good. But we had to make an overall assessment based on the relationships I've explained.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1702	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘In Hedmark, the number of claims for compensation for sheep taken by wolves increased by a total of 300 pst. from the previous grazing season to the current. From an agricultural policy point of view, this is totally disastrous. People stop completely, or reduce the number of animals. How will the Council of State help to minimise the number of predators and other animals, so that districts are once again more attractive to live and live in as much as possible?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1711	The level of conflict in predatory game management is too high. This is illustrated by the annual loss of predatory game of 30 000 to 40 000 sheep and 10 000 to 20 000 clean over the last 10 years. But with Soria Moria II, the government is showing what it will do both to ensure nutrient activity based on grazing in the field and to ensure the survival of the predatory wildlife populations, without the conflict becoming greater than necessary. A number of elements shall be reviewed. The government will, among other things, in 2010 the Stortinget invites to a broad agreement on new stocking targets for wolf and bear, to strengthen surveillance and stocking of predators considerably and, in particular, to improve the effectiveness of the stocking of predatory game. It is a major challenge to achieve sound predictability of grazing-based activities while at the same time achieving predatory game targets. The government has addressed the challenges of the last period and increased appropriations for prevention and conflict mitigation, from 37 million. SEK in 2006 to over 80 million. kr in 2009. It is a fact that there was a decline on a country-wide basis of 8 000 replaced sheep and a slight decrease in replaced reindeer due to robberies attacks in 2008. The Ministry is committed to reducing grazing losses for whatever reason. Through a separate grazing project, 5.5 million were allocated in 2009. kr over the agricultural agreement for projects in six counties. The grazing project is continued in 2010 with a provision of 6.5 million. kr. The aim of the project is to develop better sheep farming, with lower overall losses and better evidence of sheep production on the outback. The Ministry also contributes funds to studies on reindeer production and losses.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1720	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Not so much was said about what has been done, and it is possible that nothing has been done more by prevention. Preventive measures may be well and good, but at least in Hedmark it has seemed very bad, if it has worked at all, because there has been an increase of 300 pst. That's a lot. We have had a debate, and we still want to have it, of course, on how many farms there should be in Norway and how many there should be. Among other things, I have the figures used from 1989, when there were 96 000 farmers, to the present day, where there are 46 000. So it's going down. It's clear that when they have the predators to work with in addition, those who want to work with the buffalo, it's hard. It's clear – and I say it so strongly – that there are people who have turned off the light because of the predators. I want that to be taken up by the Council of State and to do something with it, in addition to preventive measures, because at least it does not help in Hedmark.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1727	I agree with much of the reality description presented here by the representative Bredvold. There have been major challenges in Norwegian predatory policies in recent years. We have suffered great losses, and it has been particularly damaging to the users of the pasture. There has been a conflict between building predatory wildlife populations, which we have implemented under the decision of the majority of population from 2003 to 2004, and ensuring future grazing. This is also why one of the new government platforms has addressed a number of measures that are now to be implemented. Some of them are to be dealt with in the Storting, as I mentioned, and it is on stockpiles for bears and wolves, and in addition, emphasis is placed on increasing the effectiveness of the injury trap and better compensation schemes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1732	I would like to thank the Council of State for its complementary response. Governments and I may agree in many areas, but it may be worse to bring the whole government along. I know we're going to discuss new stock targets, but I'm probably doubting that they're going to be so much lower than the ones that are today. It's good to get faster taking out pests. It's very important, but I really don't think it's that important with compensation, because there's no farmer that works with, among other things. Buffe to get compensation. You drive because you're happy with your animals, and you obviously don't want them to be taken by predators. Then it does not help so much to get a replacement. Of course, it helps financially, but it doesn't help the desire to go on with buffing. This is often the case — whether to continue an industry, either full-time or part-time, and the use of buffing allows many farmers to manage a farm.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1739	To underline this one more time: When the government statement was written, it was signed by all three government parties, and one will of course work on that starting point in proposals for the Stortinget and in the work on. Thus, there are changes in the stock targets, as announced, and as one wants to have with the entire size of a settlement. It is of particular importance in relation to the issue of the collection of pests. I would like to stress that the emphasis has been placed on that point in the government statement, and it will be further worked on in winter. Of course, the Ministry of the Environment is responsible for this and will be able to directly address the discussions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1756	This question has been withdrawn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1763	I would like to ask the Minister for Agriculture and Food the following questions: ‘It was announced on 1 December 2009 that the price of beef in Norway should be reduced by NOK 2 to bring down the large stocks of meat. How many tonnes does the Council of State expect us to buy extra due to this price reduction?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1772	It's true that Nortura has announced a price reduction of $2 per cent. kilograms for beef but a lower reduction for the first half of 2010. There has recently been a sharp decrease in the demand for beef, which means that for the first time in a very long time we can have surpluses of Norwegian cattle produced in Norway. Nortura is responsible for balancing the commodity market, on the basis of the reformed beef and veal organisation applicable from 1 July. It has no target price and access to regulatory storage is limited to 2500 tonnes. In the market organisation, price is a main instrument for balancing the commodity market. Now, the main question is not what increased demand I expect as a result of the price reduction, but what demand response has been observed in the cattle market in the event of previous price changes – in other words, what price elasticity is. It's common to expect a price elasticity for cattle of minus 0.3 to 0.5. The wholesale price was before reduction 48.88 kroner. This means that a price reduction of NOK 2 is approx. 4 pst. With a conservative estimate of elasticity of minus 0,3, the price reduction will result in an increase in consumption of approx. 1,3 pst., or approx. 1 150 tonnes, annual. This is the expectation of increased turnover at wholesale level. In order to increase consumer demand, of course, price reductions need to be continued later on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1782	I thank the Council of State for a supplementary and a little explanatory answer. I saw this big news on text TV on NRK this day, and then I had to do something about it, of course. Personally, I have no faith that a price cut of 2 kroner per person. kilos can remove some of the stocks that we have of meat in particular. I rather believe that it is a market to control the size of stocks. The demand has a little bit to say for what to produce, and in what quantities. NOK 2 per year. kilos think I'm helping very little. In particular, those living along the border can go to Sweden, where the entrecôte price is SEK 75 per person. kilos, and in Norway we pay NOK 199. Indrefilet costs in Sweden – this is the approximate price – NOK 160, while in Norway it costs NOK 380. I don't think either the government council or I'm doing so much of the two dollars, or what it had to be -- I don't think we're buying more or less because of it. So then I just ask the Council of State: does he believe that this helps?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1789	I guess it's not a matter of whether the government has faith in it, but of whether Nortura, as a market regulator, has faith in it. I would like to stress that when a person starts from the kilo price of beef in Norway, we are not talking in this case about the consumer price of beef, which may be 300-400 kroner per. kilograms – and that there is a 2 kr reduction on that. What we're talking about is the wholesale price. The reduction of approx. 4 pst., which I explained instead, is not small. What is essential to know is that Nortura, as a market regulator, does not rule in the later stages. Nevertheless, in the calculations of price elasticity, which I explained, one presupposes an increased demand in the market, which will decrease by more than 1 150 tonnes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1794	I thank the Council of State for the answer. Governments referred to the word market regulator. I do, as I said earlier, have more faith that the market and demand will be involved in determining how much is to be produced. It might seem that we have a measure that so many pounds and so many pounds are to be produced – whether it's eggs or meat, or whatever it is – and then you don't think so much about what the market is asking for. That's why I had that question about the market regulator. It is clear that it has a little to say when a price in Norway is NOK 380, and if one travels a few kilometers into Sweden – or maybe just a few meters – get the same type of product for NOK 160 per person. kilos. There is a price difference of 220 kroner – roughly 200 to 250 pst. For an ordinary consumer, it does not help – initially – 2 kroner. per 1 % kilos in cut.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1799	As I said, the price change that we're talking about is at the wholesale level, and it gives a different impact on demand than what the representative, Mr. Bredvold, here suggests. With regard to the role of market regulators, it is important to stress that in the principles of interoperability, the industry itself assumes responsibility for the development of production. No one other than Nortura as a market regulator has a better basis for predicting both the development of demand and, in particular, the development of production and thus ensuring a fair market balance. There has been a major under-cover in the beef and veal market for many years now. Now it's changed, both as a result of the financial crisis and an increase in output. Then, market regulators like Nortura do their job when they now implement such measures, which will provide the effect that I have previously reviewed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1806	The President could be tempted to comment further on price elasticity in an open market, but leaves it lying, and goes with great pleasure to the next question, from the representative Svein Flätten to the same Council of State, the Minister of Agriculture and Food.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1812	It is a pleasure that the Council of State comes to Stortinget every day, so that you can discuss climate issues several days in a row. My question is this: ‘Has the Council of State overview of greenhouse gas emission reductions in Norway in its area of competence since accession in 2005 and how, where appropriate, the Council of State assesses the results achieved as a contribution to Norway’s national greenhouse gas reduction target.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1821	The size treated yesterday St.meld. No 39 for 2008-2009, Climate challenges – agriculture as part of the solution. The treatment of this message was an important milestone in the work on agriculture and climate. As I said in my post yesterday, I am very pleased that the Storting in its position joins the main features of the message. Agriculture is the only sector that has carried out such a thorough review of climate responsibility and possible climate action, and I note that there is a broad gap between the knowledge-based communication and the proposals for action. A comprehensive greenhouse gas account has been established in Norway. Statistical Central Bureau, SFT, Norwegian Institute of Forests and Landscapes, with several collaborations to clarify emissions and intakes from different sources, including agriculture. This accounts and emission sources have been detailed in St.melding. No 39 for 2008-2009. The number published by the SSB in February this year shows that the agricultural loops in total rose by 2.1 pst. from 2006 to 2007, due to several livestock and a slight increase in the use of fertilisers. However, this emission source has lower emissions than e.g. in 1990. Emission figures show some of the dilemma we face, by increasing food production in the years to come, while at the same time reducing greenhouse gas emissions. This relationship has been discussed in depth in the Annual Report on Agriculture and the Climate Challenges, which includes: Please note that it is not possible to produce food without simultaneous greenhouse gas emissions. The national emission reduction targets are set in relation to 2020. I can assure you that I will do what is possible to get the necessary emission reductions in agriculture. The target, now adopted in the Stortinget, is to reduce emissions by at least 1.1 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent by 2020. The message addressed yesterday presents measures in agriculture with the potential to achieve that goal, and I believe that this potential is realistic. Biogas is one of the agricultural measures with the highest potential for emission reductions. It's a relationship that I'll follow up on. Reduced nitrogen fertilisers, increased livestock efficiency and reduced tillage are other important measures indicated. In the last four years, the agricultural agreement has strengthened efforts to reduce emissions. The Climate Action Development Programme was established in 2007. This program is now 6 million. kr per. years and shall contribute to increased knowledge of the reduction of agricultural emissions and the potential for carbon bonding in soil. Furthermore, the Programme shall contribute to the competence of farmers and the management of climate action. The pilot project for better use of manure is another project to be expanded in 2010 and the regional environmental programmes also include: as an objective to modify soil processing and contribute to the reduction of CO2 emissions from agricultural soils. As important as reducing emissions, increasing the binding of CO2 is key here. The net capture of CO2 in the forest has been between 25 and 32 million in recent years. tonnes of CO2, which is a large number and approximately half of the total Norwegian greenhouse gas emissions, and not least five to six times the agricultural emissions isolated. In the message, we describe the forest's ability to absorb CO2 and store carbon, and it is essential that the forest is actively exploited. The best way to use forest resources as climate tools is to increase the maximum, so that we can replace more fossil fuels, use more wood in buildings and structures – while at the same time actively operating forestry where we build new forests and bind carbon. The government is continuously working to follow up the climate agreement. Therefore, the Government set up the Climate Change 2020 team only a few months after the adoption of the Climate Change Agreement in the Stortinget in 2008. In February, the Climate Action Report, which is now produced by the SFT and other agencies, will provide the most comprehensive menu of new instruments and measures ever presented in Norway. The Klimakur report will show how Norway can achieve the climate objectives. Following the presentation of a climate change policy in February, the Government will carefully consider the various proposals and submit to the Stortinget an assessment of climate policy and any need for changed instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1856	I would like to thank you for a full answer, and I am thinking of a little bit of what the Council of State has to say about what is important – namely this with increased binding of CO2 in the forest. In the debate yesterday, we did not really get a discussion on this proposal that the Right and the Progress Party promoted, to assess the possibilities of ‘a quota trading system in Norway for forest-oriented CO2 allowances’. The weight now put on by the State Council in the carbon capture in the forest, and the figures — which are correct — show that this is perhaps the most central area. Why does he not believe that the investigation of such an allowance trading system could further contribute to the proper provision of forestry?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1872	These days we are sitting in Copenhagen and discussing such matters, among other things. how much compensation Norway will have for the forest that we have, that grows and that binds carbon. The easiest way to ensure higher carbon bonds in the forest is to exploit the measures we already have today, which are to have a greater impact on the forest fund system and, for example, on the environment. increase the planting of forest, as it will give direct effect. There has been a discussion about a national forest allowance trading system, and I do not reject it. I think that maybe sometime in the future could be an opportunity. At the same time, I think it will depend on internationally accepted legislation, an international system, and that it can be comparable in other countries as well. It gets a possible return to later. It could... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1879	State councils will have further opportunities to elaborate on this issue, which is interesting. The follow-up must be: I understand that the Council of State is positively aligned with such a system, and that is good. Then the question is, what do we do to get to a national system? I understand that you may then have to have international approvals, agreements, etc. For example, do we have: with us the kind of positions in the negotiations that are now taking place, so that we can make that happen? Or will this mean completely new rounds with other countries? And finally, even if one minute is a short time to answer, wouldn't it be possible just to do this completely nationally, based on the agreements that now exist with other nations? Is there something that prevents us from doing that?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1886	What I was going to end my previous answer with was that in the project Coastal Forestry, which is owned by the county municipalities from Agder in the south to Finnmark in the north, they have proposed a quota trading system. I guess that's what's the starting point here. There too, the challenges are seen in relation to the impact of the system and how it should be technically done. Very familiar we have to rely on international legislation if we are to have such a system in place, and we do not have it today. In coastal forest farming, it has been decided, as a measure, that when you fly, you have to plant forest. That's the full opportunity for them to do today, and that's a way of following up those ambitions. I am following up the project and the thoughts that the fleet here stresses, and I will perhaps come back to the matter later.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1903	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1916	This question has been postponed to the next Question Time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1922	This question, from Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve to the Minister for Fisheries and Coast, will be raised by the representative Frank Bakke Jensen.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1925	Today's debate has shown that climate policy is not only important to those who are particularly interested, but extends throughout the political spectrum. It is natural that we, too, who are interested in the well-being of the coast, have this in the debate. A climate debate can be reduced to the purely technical level and is about reducing emissions... [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1930	The President regrets having to interrupt, but the question is only to be referred in the first round. So it answers that, and then you have two additional questions afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1933	I'm sorry, I didn't know that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1938	Then you only read the question that has been submitted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1941	You're doing fine. «According to St.meld. No 32 for 2006-2007, the fishing fleet amounted to 2,5 pst in 2005. of the total emissions, total 1,3 million tonnes of CO2. What will the Council of State do specifically to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from the fishing fleet?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1953	There is little doubt that climate change is among the greatest challenges of our time. We know that greenhouse gas emissions affect the temperature of the soil and the sea. What we don't know about is how and how fast these changes will affect the marine environment – how it will affect plankton, eggs, larvae, corals, fish and shellfish. That's why we need a lot of knowledge to be able to adapt to change. All our administration must be based on knowledge. Research and monitoring of ecosystems are essential. These are therefore priority tasks. In addition, we need to ensure that greenhouse gas emissions are reduced. Emissions from the Norwegian fishing fleet are already relatively low. This is due to the fact that the fishing is largely carried out with passive gear near land. In addition, the structural arrangements have contributed to fewer vessels and a more rational overall fishing. As a result, the discharges from the fishing fleet have actually been reduced in recent years. I would also like to commend the fishing industry for having implemented various emission reduction measures through the environmental agreement and the NOx fund. However, we will work to achieve an even more efficient energy use in each fishing boat, and we have identified different measures through a working group where the industry was represented. One concrete measure is to facilitate even more energy-efficient harvesting. Today’s gear rules may hinder the use of energy-efficient fishing methods. It's unfortunate and a little forward-looking. With the limitations we must have in terms of biology and the environment, each fisherman should have the option to choose the most appropriate tool. I would therefore like to start a work to make the tool rules more flexible. It is a good environmental policy, and it allows for improved profitability for the fleet. In the examination of the Climate Change Communication, it was agreed that by 2020 it would be realistic to reduce emissions in Norway by between 15 and 17 million. tonnes of CO2 equivalent in relation to the reference track as presented in the 2007 national budget, when forest is included. In line with the principle of sectoral responsibility in environmental protection policy, the Climate Action Communication, St.meld. No 34 for 2006-2007, set own emission targets for four main sectors. The government is continuously following up the climate agreement. However, the challenge is not that the climate agreement is not adequately followed up. The challenge is that although the climate agreement was a major step forward for climate policy, the measures in the conciliation are probably not enough in relation to our climate objectives. As a result, the government is constantly looking for ways to extend the climate toolkit. Therefore, the Government set up the Climate Change 2020 team only a few months after the adoption of the Climate Change Agreement in the Stortinget in 2008. In February, the Climate Action Report, now produced by the SFT and other agencies, will provide the most comprehensive menu of new instruments and measures that have ever been presented in Norway. The Klimakur report will show how Norway can achieve the climate objectives. Following the presentation of a climate change policy in February, the Government will carefully consider the various proposals and then the Government will present to the Stortingeten an assessment of climate policy and the need for changed instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1982	I record that the Council of State is so knowledgeable that she managed well without the otherwise informative introduction. In St.meld. No 34 for 2006–2007, the so-called Climate Communication, it is said that it is difficult to provide some good estimates of what kind of costs will be associated with setting defined emission reduction requirements in the fishing fleet. What is known is that this will require the renewal and modernisation of the fishing fleet. At the same time, we know that the NOx fund is now quite well received by the fleet. This has led to modernisation and thus reduced climate emissions. The industry believes that the extension of the NOx agreement, the use of GIEK also for the fishing fleet, and the provision of good guarantees, can be a constructive path towards more climate-friendly fishing. My question will then be whether this sounds like beautiful music in the ears of the councils.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e1999	As the representative pointed out, the fisheries industry has accepted the NOx agreement, the environmental agreement. It is an agreement signed by the Ministry of the Environment and the 14 trade organisations in May 2008. The Environment Agreement and the Declaration of Accession constitute the framework for the work of the Enterprise NOx Fund. Through the agreement, trade organisations shall provide for concrete reductions in NOx emissions. It has benefited the fishing industry, as both the undersigned and the representative said. In fact, more than half of all major fishing vessels have implemented or planned NOx reduction measures with the support of industry’s NOx fund. The agreement shall now be evaluated and processed. Then we get back to a possible continuation of it. I am very attached to everything that contributes positively to the climate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e2023	Transport, at least when we talk about climate, is an essential part of the costs for both the land industry and the fleet. At the same time, we all agree that bringing goods and products forward in an environmentally friendly and appropriate way is important. A strategy for moving goods from wheel to keel has been developed. My question here is: does the Council see this type of transport as an appropriate solution for transporting products from the fisheries and aquaculture industries to the markets where they are paid for the goods?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e2031	Any transport operation that can be moved from wheel to keel is clearly positive for many reasons, including environmental reasons. The biggest advantage of the Norwegian fishing industry is the proximity to the fantastic fishing resources we have – fresh quality products from the sea. Consumers would like these fresh products. It is also well described in the Government's fresh fish strategy. So I think that in addition to the fact that everything that can be moved to the cold is reasonable, we have to think about how we can make the wheel-based movement energy-economical and environmentally constructive. That's where we know that it's going to be pretty much interesting. One of the things I think is very wise in that context is to send the least possible bone, skin, heads, etc. Out of the country by car. We have to look at how we can get the most food on this car.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e2038	Then we go to question 6.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e2044	The finance minister said earlier today that this with biodiesel was probably going to hang with the government for some time to come.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e2049	The President must remind us that now only the question should be referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e2052	That's why the next foal is coming here. I will allow myself to ask the Minister for Economic Affairs and Trade the following questions: «In the autumn we have seen Uniol open up by the Minister for the Environment and then deprived of the business base of the Government a few months later. At the same time, the world is now facing significant challenges related to greenhouse gas reduction. Through Kyoto, Norway has committed itself to significant cuts that are difficult to meet, and now there may be even more stringent demands from the Copenhagen meeting. New measures are needed to achieve the objectives. What will the Council of State do to facilitate the use of eco-innovations and jobs?’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e2061	The government has already given priority to eco-friendly innovations and industrial development, including: by increasing research funding for environmental technologies and strengthening environmental priorities in other business-oriented instruments, increasing CO2 management efforts, enhancing cooperation between relevant instrument actors and ensuring good contact with industry in environmental technology work with a dedicated Strategic Council on Environmental Technologies. Some DKK 1.8 billion are allocated annually to environmental projects through relevant instruments in the Norwegian Research Council and Innovation Norway. In addition to the 2010 budget of the Ministry of Economic Affairs and Trade, it is proposed to strengthen the allocation of some 700 million environmental measures. kr in 2010, against about 530 m. in 2009. It includes appropriations for various programmes and schemes, both in the Research Council and Innovation Norway, including: establishing the new scheme of Innovation Norway aimed at pilot and demonstration projects in environmental technologies. The framework for this scheme amounts to 140 million. DKK, of which 100 million. kr is intended to be used on 2nd generation biofuels. We have to expect that from the Copenhagen Summit and its follow-up, there will also be more stringent environmental monitoring requirements in Norway. Much of this needs to be solved with new environmental technologies, and we are going to contribute to Norway being at the forefront in this area too, as we have ensured our competitiveness by being at the forefront of technology, in the companies that are powerful in an international market.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e2073	I thank you for your answer and am very pleased that the government is putting on new technology. There might seem to be a need for a pretty hard bet. The media today presented a report that says that Norway is at the very bottom of a statistics on countries using new renewable energy. Would the Council of State be happy to be placed so far below a list?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e2078	I'm a little uncertain about which list it's referred to, but at least if we make a list of countries that have a high share of clean energy in their consumption, I think we're getting very close to the top. We are a country based on hydropower, an entirely renewable and eternal resource. It is clear that countries where coal or other polluting energy sources were mainly fired have a different potential to improve, to improve. This does not mean that we should not also look at the possibility of expanding the use of our energy resources. Among other things, I think we have a great potential for wind power. All of us who know the coast of Norway know that there are huge amounts of energy here. And we need, among other things: look into whether or not GIEK, for example, can go in and contribute to offshore wind projects so that Norwegian companies can participate in that adventure.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e2085	I thank the Council of State again and am very pleased that the focus will be on wind energy, where there is probably a lot to bet on. But there are other areas. In Trøndelag, 50 municipalities have merged to create a company to treat sewage and food waste. The company's name is Ecopro. It treats 30 000 tonnes of waste per year and reduces emissions by 50 to 90 million. tonnes of CO2 per tonne; years. I myself was present as rapporteur and set up this company. It's not going well – i.e. It's going well, but it's not going economically well, because the government's framework conditions are such that we go out of business every year. Does the Council of State think it right that the municipal budget, which is intended to provide well-being for the inhabitants, should take that bill, or does he think it is a state responsibility?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e2097	I believe that the municipalities should be responsible for what the municipality is responsible for, and the state for which the state is responsible. First of all, my experience is that rapporteurs, both at present and in the past, prefer to have the money as free money and to be able to give priority to how the money is spent. During the last five state budgets, the municipal economy has increased by nearly 40 billion kroner, so we have had a strong growth in the framework of the municipalities. I think we deserve to have a system where we get broad, general instruments, where pollution costs, and where it pays to choose environmentally friendly. I am strongly in favour of strict requirements, but I am also strongly attached to the fact that the measures we are implementing are put in place where we get the most back for the money. A combination of general schemes, general framework conditions and special measures to develop tipping skills and new technologies, I think, is the right dosage of the instruments.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e2106	With this trundish dialogue, thing is no. 1 completed on the current map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-16.ana.ud811e2119	There is no record. - The meeting's been cancelled.
