ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e210	The meeting alternate of the Vestfold County, Jan Fredrik Vogt, proposed to the Lagtinget for the time he meets the representative of Per Ove Width. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted. Two permit applications are available: on the leave of the representative Henning Skumsvoll on 16 and 17 June to attend the meeting of the Parliamentary Assembly of the Western European Union in Paris of the Right-wing Group on the sick leave of the representative Elisabeth Røbekk Nørve from 16 June to 19 June On a proposal from the President, it was decided unanimously: The applications shall be examined immediately and accepted. The Vara representatives, for the West Agder County, Kjell Ivar Larsen, and, for the More and Romesdal counties, Rolf Jarle Brøske, are called to meet during the leave period.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e252	Kjell Ivar Larsen and Rolf Jarle Broeske are present and will take the seat. Before the matters on today's map are dealt with, the President will propose that the evening meeting be set at 1 p.m. 17. No objection has been raised against the President's proposal and it is deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e271	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 3811]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e288	At the request of the Municipal and Administrative Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e297	I need to first clarify what theme is covered in the message. What is mentioned is the government administration, the government's own administrative apparatus. When we read the committee setting, we can get a different impression. There it is in total, most of the government, everything from municipalities to directorates. I note that it is the opposition that has taken the opportunity to write in most of what they think about general government in general. But it's not a theme, and we, the position, have chosen to stick to what's in the message. It's unfortunate, the way the opposition has done this, because it's going to be a dilution, and we're not getting the attention on this important topic that's been discussed in the message. The majority has developed three themes that we've written a good deal about. It's New Public Management in the public sector, we've written about education and competence, and we've written about financial management, among other things. in relation to the sea. ‘Management’ and ‘bureaucratic’ are often used as shell words, at least in certain parts of the political landscape. In all debates on reduced expenditure, it is the administration to be cut, and that is where there is the opportunity to cut. It is simple, it is non-committal, and, moreover, it is politically opportune. We need a good and loyal administration to implement the political decisions. In its history, administration has been characterised by two governance models. It is the traditional regulatory governance model, and for the last 20 to 30 years, market management principles have also gained greater influence in the public sector. The Chicago School, with Milton Friedman, has given the economic premise to eager politicians from New Zealand to England. In this country, too, it has been politically dominant. These ideas have also been passed on by government, and they are characterised by, among other things. quantitative measurements and fragmentation in small output units to be measured which shall be able to compete with other units. Keywords include outsourcing, privatisation, increased competition and increased use of contractual relationships. The Communication discusses and problematizes these principles as a public sector management system. The majority is clearer in their recommendations. We underline coordination and overall rather than fragmentation and competition, i.e. a way of thinking about governance that directly attacks New Public Management's competitive thinking. We expect, and we expect, that what we write, the notes we put in, and the leaders we put in, will create a new debate within the government and in the government on how to organise the government away from quantitative measurements to develop qualitative parameters if there is a need to use measurement to put numbers or data on efficiency. Management, governance, based on external motivation, as New Public Management operates with, is a bad way to generate the creativity of individual employees. The majority place competence and involvement as alternatives to hierarchical management structures with external motivation as a basis. The best way to create an effective organization is to release people, so don't leave them in the strong hierarchical structures. We want, and we stress, that the public sector should be characterised as innovative, with a focus on education and skills that will stimulate innovation. The public sector shall aim to be the most innovative sector in our society, both in terms of capital and, above all, in terms of human use. The S Sea is a married child of New Public Management, of market liberalism, and we are problematicating the role of the S Sea and its task in the public sector.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e321	The cancellation message we are about today is about the central government, i.e. The government's administrative apparatus. Governments shall ensure that political decisions are put into practice, loyally and effectively. Governments are responsible for affairs for the political powers, but they also make decisions about people's rights and duties. This makes administration a central part of the democratic and political system. The message assumes that there is now a need for an administrative policy that strengthens democratic values and stretches under the political direction of the resources and institutions of the community. Administrative policies often focus on balancing different concerns with each other. The party of progress believes that the main challenge is that the state enterprise is not well organized enough in relation to the majority of the public sector, which is the municipal sector, and in this context we show KS's listening recordings. However, we would stress that we in this country have a high level of welfare services in relation to many other countries, and that there is a broad political consensus that the public should ensure all good access to important welfare services. But the Progress Party records that the current government is not willing to let private and voluntary organizations complement the public services and tasks. The Progress Party of My Politicians has a great responsibility to renew, and has four main objectives of modernisation: a simpler everyday life, better service and choice for the inhabitants of smaller administrations, providing more and better services to secure the public sector as an exciting and competent job ensuring long-term well-being throughout the country; The Progress Party would like to release several governmental agencies and ensure market exposure. In this context, we will refer to a report from BI from 2008, where they have studied experiences from companies such as Statkraft, Statnett, Posten, Telenor, the railway companies, Avinor, Mesta and Entra Eiendom. The BI clearly concludes that a changed structure and a changed governance have given a quality lift to these major actors. We want to point out that the transformation of administrative bodies into independent legal entities has had a number of positive effects. The vast majority of these businesses now produce more and better services at a lower cost than before. In our view, the municipal sector is too much governed by state regulations. The party of progress places emphasis on local self-government and believes it is important to have a policy that facilitates and stimulates local business. It will be best for the total value creation in the country. The Progress Party believes that far more tasks should be resolved locally over a county municipality or by the state. In the previous case of regional reform, we had several suggestions to transfer power and form from central to local politicians' municipalities, something that the government party disagreed with. The Progress Party believes that regional reform is a failure. The party of progress will put an end to the county and think that in a small country like Norway it is sufficient with two levels of government, namely state and municipality. Two levels of administration will strengthen local democracy and provide a better service provision. The Progress Party believes that today's organisation of health services is too bureaucratic. Regional health care providers are a cost-effective and unnecessary intermediary. Therefore, we have a proposal to abolish healthcare professionals and to replace them with a state hospital directorate, such as the Health Service. should have coordination responsibilities and organisational functions. In our view, this will lead to increased interaction between different health and care services across the country. Finally, I want to address both the proposals of the Progress Party, and the ones that we are together with others about.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e362	The representative, Åge Starheim, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e365	I heard what the case rapporteur said initially, but from the right, I must say that this big message is a little engaging and a little forward-looking. It is the most descriptive, similar to an annual report on central government. To be a big message, it's little visionary and dynamic, and we're missing more themes. Because so little has happened in modernising and streamlining the administration of these four years with the red-green government, the Right has chosen to point out what should have happened – what we have proposed on various occasions and what we want to implement, and what is important for a debate on government. That is why we are also promoting a number of proposals in this area today, together with other parties here in the Chamber. Because the Government has provided four lost years in the modernisation work, the Right will point out the importance of using more solutions to cope with the major societal challenges facing the country. It is not appropriate for the government to produce all the services itself, as the Government has an infallible belief. The government has tried to solve all the challenges of budgetary appropriations, but without rethinking the choice of good solutions. It is serious in a situation where the lack of qualified personnel is increasing. In the opinion of the Right, the lack of modernisation or renewal has led to a low level of innovation in public service production and a higher level of costs than necessary. In a hearing with the Financial Committee in Stortinget on 22 May 2008, the Governor of the Central Bank also expressed great concern about the lack of efficiency and conversion in the public sector. Well, a year later, we're at rest. It concerns the Right, because the smarter a public service offer can develop, the greater the possibility that there is enough labour to provide good services throughout the country, in the city as in the countryside. The same benefit also arises from the use of private suppliers and the outsourcing of competition, whether in health care or in education. OPS projects in the transport sector are another example. The government's allergy to private solutions hangs like a heavy cloud over our landscape. Because today there is too much duplication of work between state directorates, county councils, county councils and municipalities, the Right believes there is a need for a comprehensive review of directorates and supervision. The aim shall be to reduce the number, avoid duplication and ensure more efficient operation. The conversion must be carried out in such a way that directorates and supervisors can be developed to become even more attractive jobs. Because there are constantly signs that the county officials are increasingly overtaking municipal discretion, the Right wants to separate discretion and legality control. We believe that the county office has an unfortunate mix of these roles. Not least from my own state, Telemark, I can draw up more examples. It is undemocratic that employees of the county act as political actors, without the competence of the people. Because the regional reform has failed, the Right will bring down the county municipalities. We believe that a small country such as Norway is doing the best with two levels of government. The organisation of government with just state and local authorities will strengthen local democracy and provide better services. Larger and more robust municipalities or municipalities in cooperation can take over most of the county’s tasks, for the benefit of the population. Finally, I will address the proposal on which the Right and Christian People's Party are united.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e384	The representative Kari Lise Holmberg has taken up the suggestion she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e387	The announcement of a government for democracy and the community emphasises that administration must be both an effective tool for political management and serve its citizens and involve them in the development of the public sector. The Christian People's Party supports the Government's view that, regardless of party political membership of the government at all times, administration should promote democracy and legal certainty and stand for professional integrity and efficiency. This message points out, among other things, that society has become more differentiated, more diverse, more individualised and in many ways more fragmented. Management is therefore challenged in terms of choice between standardised and specialised solutions. At the same time, people have greater expectations for quality, efficiency and service. It is a challenge for ever-growing management. Compared to many other countries, Norway has a large public sector. From the dawn of the welfare state in the 1930s, the Norwegian welfare model has been built on the universality of key welfare schemes. In addition, tasks have traditionally been largely carried out by the public. In the last decade, we've had a larger share of market solutions both nationally and internationally. The Christian People's Party believes that private ideals and voluntary alternatives are important complements to the public in terms of health and care services and e.g. diversity in school. However, the aim must always be diversity and freedom of choice, and not the means in themselves. The government parties have this time inserted a somewhat remarkable note in the setting, and I quote: ‘The majority note that different minorities, both in the form of comments and with proposals, move far beyond the notification. In long notes, which are often repetitions from previous issues dealt with by the Committee, proposals are made in areas which are not the subject of the communication. The majority point to the fact that the message addresses many important questions of principle and sees no reason to weaken the policy content of the message by involving themes that have not been discussed. The majority will therefore not comment on minority comments where these have not been addressed thematically in the Communication.’ The Christian People's Party questions the admissions of the government parties to majority arrogance. Because it's something we're dealing with in this big business that embraces a lot, and that should be included in all debates, it's the discussion about the administration that's all about everything. If the Committee wants to discuss the county office and the municipal structure or other related areas, the majority must not say that they will not be involved – but be glad that the opposition has included new issues in the debate on our government administration. Governments have undergone major changes in the last 20 years and, as a number of have been involved, they have been more inspired by market solutions. Greater emphasis has been placed on the functioning of economic incentives, the measurement of results, the outsourcing of competition and the elements of reward and penalty systems. Several tasks are now being solved in a market, and this has again created a greater need for supervision and control. This has been justified by the need for increased efficiency and better use of resources. In order to provide a basis for the measurement of results, several public units have also been subdivided into so-called result units. This in turn has led to increased fragmentation and disintegration of management organisations. The Christian People's Party agrees that the intentions have been good enough. The requirement for the public sector has increased. The public is responsible for vital and fundamental services, which mean a lot in people's everyday lives, and which consume a lot of resources. It is reasonable and necessary to focus on the efficient and accurate use of resources. However, many of the key public service objectives, such as: Legal certainty, non-discrimination and reassuring procedures are difficult to measure and deliver. The use of simplified measurement standards may be detrimental to efficiency processes. Management is not, nor shall it be, comparable to normal production. The Christian People's Party therefore believes that public sector governance principles must be interaction and overall over fragmentation and extensive competition. It must be based on competence and target management and not just on measurable formulations. The Christian People's Party wants a strong public sector with a high level of competence, and that private, non-profit and voluntary alternatives become an important complement to the public in terms of welfare services in, among others. health and care.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e414	People shall rejoice until they meet the general government. But is that the way it is today? No, I think, unfortunately, that people all too often feel small in the face of government. They may often feel that government appears inaccessible, swirled, and perhaps even quarreled. The message has an ambition to do something about this. There are three main principles underlying it, as I see it. It's about coordination, it's about service, and it's about people's rights. Over the last 20 years, we have seen a depoliticisation of the public sector. Many tasks that were previously under direct political control have now been allocated to either directorate, businesses or to supervision. We have also seen a fragmentation of state tasks in the form of different regional divisions. We therefore see the need for more coordination of management. The time for the depoliticisation of Norway is now over, and it is important that we now try to ensure that politicians regain greater influence over important societal functions. It is important not only to strengthen the power of politics, but also to make people feel that it is easy to address politicians, and politicians have the opportunity to intervene, and thus to have clear lines of responsibility. What goes on at the service level is about an open, inclusive and service-set management. It's about taking people seriously. In meeting management, people must feel that they are being listened to, that their challenges are being addressed, and that they are functioning quickly and efficiently. Perhaps a well-functioning and migration-friendly central government can also be a good strategy for competition for both labour and business internationally. The democratic aspect is very important. It is important that public administration is characterised by rapid and effective procedures. I am pleased that the right of participation of employees is underlined in the communication, and it is also important that we look at how the perspective of democracy can influence public administration to a greater extent. As a point of fact, we also have challenges in this Chamber, where we see that when we discuss political issues, the debate in the media is often over a long time ago, and unfortunately we rarely see the press present in this Chamber listening to the debates that are taking place. It is a general challenge for public Norway to be on the road and, in particular, it is also important for the national Parliament to avoid a situation where policy is going around the political institutions, to choose solutions regardless of what is happening in this Chamber. Åge Starheim was in the Progress Party's view on the number of management levels and presented the Progress Party's view in view of the need for two levels, which Kari Lise Holmberg was also interested in. Yes, either it would lead to more government governance and therefore more bureaucracy, and for many of our citizens an experience that power is getting further away from them, or it would lead to very large municipalities in order to be able to carry out the administrative tasks that are involved. I would warn against that attitude. I can use my home state, Nord-Trøndelag, as an example, a state that is totally dependent on politics, and that has small municipalities with low population. The Committee is well-known with the Namdalen area of the Nord-Trøndelag. Yes, you can merge the entire Namdalen of one municipality, and yet you almost don't have the number of inhabitants that are enough to do the kind of tasks that are involved. So here it's about either removing power from the population or creating so large administrative areas in some districts in Norway that you're not able to do those tasks in a good enough way, because the distances and the disadvantages are getting so big. So we're not going to reduce the influence of politics, we're going to strengthen it. Reducing the influence of policies will both weaken the ability to create something in District Norway, and it will lead to depopulation. There are wrong solutions to the challenges we are facing. With this message, we adjust the course, from market thinking to the focus on democracy and community.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e437	The left is happy in the public sector. Through it, we're going to do important tasks on behalf of the community. It is important that the public sector is both efficient and adaptable and that it does not grow too much at the expense of private business. By 2050, we are facing a major change in the demographic composition in Norway, with a doubling of the number of older people aged over 67 and a reduction in the number of taxpayers in working age. This will require us to organise the public sector smartly and optimally to free as many hands and heads as possible to operate both well-being and value creation. The period 2010-2020 appears to be particularly favourable in order to make the public sector optimally adapted to the major challenges of older people’s care from 2020. Over the period 2010-2020, we have some economic freedom and some demographic stability. The left will have three elected levels in the public sector. In order to ensure more popular government and more decentralisation, the Left will put a roof on the state's business of about 50 pst. by the public sector and use all of Norway by allocating the other tasks to counties and municipalities. Left primarily wants the intermediate level to be organised as a unit state. We believe that a review of the tasks of the State should be carried out with a view to more user-friendly service, more coherent chains of welfare services and more decentralisation. With regard to the organisation of the state, we point out that the Power and Democracy investigation pointed out that in recent decades the changes in government have been marked by sectoral reforms that have resulted in increased differentiation and fragmentation of public activities. The regional central government consists of 41 different establishments with about 29 000 annual works. There are currently 34 establishments with a division larger than the counties, none of which have colliding regional boundaries. In view of this, there should be a great deal to be gained from both democratisation and efficiency in the state sector. Unfortunately, the administrative reform in force from 2010 will slightly change the sectoral, fragmented and government-driven regional state, as was the ambition of the original regional reform. In fact, the state itself is strengthened by the state. Unfortunately, little has been done in the current period to streamline both the state and the municipal sectors. The central bank manager has on several occasions expressed concerns about the lack of efficiency and conversion in the public sector. The introduction of new technologies is an important part of strengthening the provision of services to citizens, improving management and contributing to efficiency. Better coordination between different levels of administration and simplification is another part of this. The left also believes that it is part of challenging the public sector to compete more, both with itself and others. In particular, we will point to the potential of the voluntary sector, which often has an idealistic purpose and commitment that mobilizes to action. We also have good examples of consumer cooperation in Norway that can be used more widely for the benefit of the community. The left is committed to using the position of government as a large customer and order to contribute to competition that strengthens and develops Norwegian services, producers and suppliers. Public procurement policy should be transparent and non-discriminatory. It is also appropriate to require that all products purchased by public authorities are the best on the market in terms of environmental characteristics. The left will facilitate the extensive use of electronic commerce, including in the public domain. During the next enlargement period, at least half of all public procurement should be made by electronic means and resources released to provide better services in countries, counties and municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e455	The stork setting suggests that there is a broad deal about management policy. A Joint Committee concludes on the Government's emphasis on the values that must characterise the administration. The Committee has no comments on the principle of organisation and termination of user involvement and that people should have an impact on the development of public services. The Committee also agrees with the Government that administrations must take advantage of their competences in the development process. Governments are part of the democratic chain of governance. The administration has power and decisions about the rights and obligations of people. It makes management something much more than a service manufacturer. The administration has more complex objectives than the private enterprise has. The administration shall take decisions based on legal certainty and non-discrimination. Administration should be open and inclusive. People are to participate in the design of the welfare society, and they are to have services that are tailored to what they need. The management systems and the structure of the administration shall ensure policy governance with an important societal area. The administration is for the community. Community resources shall be used in the best way possible to achieve the policy objectives. We have a duty to find an effective solution to this problem. Effectiveness is not only a matter of cost reduction, but also of prioritizing different objectives and choosing the means by which priority objectives are actually achieved. I have noticed that the Progress Party, the Right and the Left will transform several governing bodies into independent legal units. The representative Holmberg was inside it in his post. But they don't say which administrative body or what tasks this is. The administrative bodies we have today have tasks largely related to decision-making and social governance. As these parties do not have comments on the organisational principle, I assume that they agree that tasks related to decision-making and social governance will be organised as part of the state. The government determines that the exercise of decision-making authority and social governance is exercise of power and must be under democratic control. The organisation in the country shall be clean. There should be no doubt about whether the Council of States is responsible or not. It goes to the heart of our parliamentary system. Freedom needed by the enterprises – professional, economic and administrative – must be balanced against the requirement of political governance and government responsibilities. We should consider interaction with other actors, for example: to choose the geographical breakdown of the state budgets. I'm glad that the committee also ends up on this principle. The public sector shall be developed as a public sector. Administration should be based on its own values and strengths, not blind monkeys after market solutions. So we're not customers of the administration. The openness and active involvement of people and the addition to the renewal of the public sector provide good solutions and is a democratic point in itself. Management can learn much from the sharing culture, for example: network communities. There is something much more involved than voting on the selection gene. We're going to have the people on the team, in the policy design, and in the development of the services. Adapting services to the needs of users is more complicated in management than in the market. The administration shall take account of Community interests, in particular those which are less easily met by their requirements. Therefore, we have organised these services jointly and not in the market. Many of the administrative tasks involve the use of power. Administration is not only to make the right decisions, but to make them the right decisions. People shall have the right to be heard, have the right to review and complain, and decisions shall be governed by law, be based on facts and be justified. The most important step in the renewal of public administration is about ICT. We are making stronger demands on coordination and health promotion. We create good and simple self-punishment solutions for the users. We make it easier for the users, and we make better use of the resources. Whenever agencies for future requests for access to large ICT projects need to show how they take into account the rungs we have created and the common architecture principle – this in order to achieve the most effective solution to the renewal work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e481	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e484	The setting says that the entire committee believes that the government administration should use the resources effectively. It is therefore important that purchases be made in a proper and orderly manner. The public purchases goods and services for over 250 billion kroner every year. But it is still such that a major breach of the law, including in the ministry. My question to the Council of State is: Why does the Government not want to set up a selection to design proposals for more effective enforcement of the public procurement legislation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e491	This is because the Government has already reduced that selection. On 19 December 2008, the Government, in the Council of State, brings down a selection to look at the enforcement of public procurement rules in line with an EU directive, but also with a mandate to review existing legislation. The representative, Åge Starheim, would have known if he had spoken with the members of the Progress Party in the Business Committee. We will later discuss on a case-by-case basis the paper on public procurement. I have noticed that the members of the Progress Party in the Business Committee have chosen not to present that proposal, because they have followed in the class and have seen that the selection has already been reduced.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e496	Arild Stokkan-Grande said at the beginning of his speech that people should rejoice in the meeting with the public sector. I agree with the heart. Among other things, he mentioned: service, and I would like to clarify this by saying: opening hours in state agencies. The right considers that the opening hours in the public sector must be adapted to modern working life and to modern family life – the life we have today, every day. It requires wider opening times and better, greater flexibility. On every possible occasion during this four-year period, the right has taken the initiative, not least to the Council of State – but I choose to say: in vain. Now I would like to ask: how has the Council of State, over the four years that have passed, facilitated better, wider and longer opening times and greater flexibility in state agencies?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e505	This line is a result of the Right getting stuck in yesterday's solutions. In my four years in the Council of State chair, I almost can't remember having received a single e-mail, or message, from people who are busy with the opening hours. They're busy with electronic services. That means that the opening time is 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. I was visiting the municipality of Kongsberg earlier this year. They said the nursery applications came in at 0 p.m. 02 at night. It is adapted to the modern family life that people live today. There's no phone time and opening time people are busy. People are busy having electronic services so that they can perform the services when appropriate – not when appropriate to the state. When it comes to electronic services, this government has done a lot – just look at the health sector and what we have now done in relation to the free card system, the prescription system, and this with receipts when you've been out and gone. People don't want to go to the Nav office to get money back. Now this will be arranged electronically. It is to facilitate a modern family life, and we can frame services on services that are important for people to have access to. That's what we're meeting in the future -- not having the answers to yesterday's challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e514	This ageing period is soon over, and it might be useful to look at the period as a whole. If one looks at this period, the Government has been busy stopping a development based on market-oriented solutions and efficiency improvement. The government will focus more on interaction, competence and other forms of governance — and has joined it through a broad majority in the UK. But then there have also been some major reforms, and let me mention two of them. The Nav reform has had a painful start – or birth. I would like the State Council's comment on this one major reform. The second is the governance reform, which would be a major reform of democracy. Was it a major democratic reform, or was it just a slight adjustment? I would like to have the summarizing comment from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e523	I am very pleased with the Christian People's Party's support throughout the period of the change of course that this government has made – away from market orientation and above, as the representative said, interaction and coordination as the most important key chords. It is important that we also provide the most important services through the public sector. I also notice in the setting that the Christian People's Party has taken quite a distance from the other three civil parties in the comments on the competition. Of course, we're very happy about that. When it comes to the administrative reform, I think that one underestimates very much what's in it. Whether a person listens to debates around the different states is related to all that is involved, for example. highways, to do, it starts to go up for people what big tasks have actually been delegated downwards in the system. State politicians are going to have a very big task assigned to something that all politicians and citizens are occupied with in this country, that is, culture. It is an important task of democracy that is being resolved locally. One must not underestimate all that is in the administration reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e530	How do the Council of State and the Government see that the state can become a more environmentally friendly buyer?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e535	This is what we see in the following way: we have tightened up the law on public procurement to ensure that purchasers take environmental responsibility. I have noticed that there is a particular difference between the comments of the Progress Party and the Right in this case, compared to the next case. In the next case, we will deal with the biggest news about the law on public procurement. The Progress Party and the Right have opted for a multi-stakeholder comment, stating that the public sector, through the large purchases we make – we trade for 270 billion kroner every year – should set environmental requirements. We have a panel that has created a criterion for how individual purchasers can set the environmental requirements related to both the purchase of hotel services, ICT or what it should be. We're very concerned about it. It's followed up by concrete advice and concrete tools so that one actually gets to do it. The use of the procurement code is, of course, a central part of it. We're happy to have Left's support for it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e540	There were many expectations and much hope attached to the regional reform. Not everything was expected in that message. The case rapporteur said that a lot of work was done in this message, St.meld. No 19 on the administrative reform, and the rapporteur also concluded that there was perhaps some of the most important things that had been dealt with this period. His rhetoric was somewhat superficial, and he summed up well saying that this was a discussion note to the government parties. However, the Council of State may mention something she would like to highlight — for example: four points that the population of Norway will notice — in this communication that we have to deal with today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e548	Yeah, I'd love to. The most important thing, I think, is what the representative, Arild Stokkan-Grande, was about, here taking back political governance. One goes from market management to people's power. It's an important grip. That's the most important thing overseeing the operation. I also want to mention the actions. We have spent four years turning away from more and more market orientation, as it was under the previous government, strongly supported by the Progress Party, so that we now take political governance back and have political control over important decisions. Then we've made significant changes when it comes to the fragmentation and the decentralization that was made when it came to all the world's small and big decisions. We coordinate, and we're creating a healing now, both across the organisations and the businesses and within the enterprises, so that it becomes more healthy, so that the individual citizen and business know what one actually is facing. Not least user involvement of a completely different character. One should be involved and influence the services and be much more in direct dialogue, both with companies and with politicians.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e557	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e562	The regional reform, which we dealt with earlier this period, was not as successful as expected and hoped. The management message, which we are dealing with today, is probably not one of the most exciting things we have dealt with in the Storting in this period. I don't think the people will notice a big difference before and after this message. I don't think the great reforms of this government will be remembered for some of the world's things. The county council is supposed to appear like the big hub of local democracy – without tasks, and now with some worn roads, but without money to run them. Norway is a small country where two levels of government, country and municipality should be sufficient. It would be to strengthen local democracy and provide better services. Adding multiple tasks to the municipality may be the key to this task. It must be an objective to improve the opening hours of the public sector, because the public sector exists in order to provide services to citizens and not vice versa. Who's for who, many ask themselves. Opening hours in public offices must be adapted to modern man. Priority should be given to service to the economically active part of the population. It, in my view, involves a combination of wider opening times and the digitisation of public services. Everyone has called for better ICT solutions, and everyone should get them, including in the public sector. It can provide reduced red tape and better services. Better management ICT services will be a driver of better services for citizens, including in the case of day-to-day management. Some have been in electronic police report on the Internet. It can be a good solution for the inhabitants, who can not get away from the job to report a theft. Police should be able to free up time to prevent and investigate violence. Today, there is considerable under-reporting in terms of profitability, for example: less theft. Many people do not choose to report theft because of the opening hours at the canal offices and at the police — it is difficult to reach it for someone who works. It is not possible to report via the Internet. Over a year after an electronic police report was submitted here in Stortingen, nothing much has happened. In Denmark, certain thefts have already been reported electronically over the Internet for six years. I have great faith in the Internet has come to stay. So this is where it should be put.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e579	It is not common for me to be left with sympathy and compassion for the administration and the council after a debate in Stortinget. But after this debate, I have to say that I have great compassion for the administration. Here a big message has been created that deals with an important theme. It is hardly affected in the debate. It doesn't really matter. Here we have heard about the county council and municipal councils, we have heard about county officers' offices, about police offices, etc. etc. However, the public administration management system itself has hardly been affected by the speakers. That is why the comment we wrote was justified. It is not an expression of any form of arrogance, but an attempt to get the debate on the track to which it relates and which the communication assumes that the debate should be – but which it did not. It wasn't an expression of any kind of arrogance, but actually a necessary reference. Although this is not the case, I have to comment: both the Right Party and the Advance Party are baffling with great weight that the administrative reform has failed. It is possible it will fail, but it is not implemented yet! It will be implemented from 1 January 2010, and then we will see if it fails. One cannot initially exaggerate that it has failed – until one has seen what it is like. This actually shows the level of debate we are at. This is an important area in which we should have discussed governance systems in the public sector and public administration. The progress party would like to privatize – they spent a lot of time talking about privatisation. But I assume that it's not the part of government that's the theme of this message, they want to privatize. I assume that the Advance Party will not privatize the government's administrative apparatus. They might want to comment on this. The message has an important theme: What management systems do we want? Is it regulation, is it market management – what do we want? According to the Right, we're immature. The right loves the word'modern'. What that means, they don't say anything about, but there's something there, that's modern, and something that's not modern. I would say that the administration, as it has evolved – what has happened there – is modern, even though it has not gone exactly that way. I want us to go even further in terms of liquidation, and say that New Public Management is a bad way of governing the public sector after – which is to govern from competition and from ideas derived from private business, where market governance is at the bottom, where a split up and create units to compete, and where a set of quantitative targets. I don't think this is a good way to run the public sector. This does not produce the best in individual employees and does not stimulate innovation and creativity. That's why we have to think about how public sector management and governance that makes this happen – and there are many ways to say good-bye to New Public Management.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e601	Then the president says goodbye to Reikvam and asks Kari Lise Holmberg to take the chair.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e604	I have to tell Rolf Reikvam that in connection with a message it must be allowed to address missing themes, issues that go right into the basics of the public sector and central government. What we in the Right are concerned about is, of course, that the public sector solves the tasks of the population for the benefit of the population — and as profitable as possible, in total. The fact that I signed up for a three-minute post was really because the Council of State – in response to my reply to her – highlighted ICT solutions and the digital world. Of course, I agree that we are always going to have a development in this area that makes it available to most people. But it's with this area as with other areas: we're not going to be the best of the world right away. I think the Council of State can take a little bit on board. If you, for example, Call their Equation Office to get some money in order, you don't get to talk to anyone locally – you're told that you have to call somewhere else. You turn to different places, you fail sometimes, you start a new round – and you end up with a number. 54 in line. This serves the telecommunications companies well, but it is the individual user who has to pay – with money, with time, and, in total, with forces. I have received many requests for frustration after meeting with the public sector. I could imagine that the Council of State commented on this part of the digital reality, and how she can improve the state levels in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e615	This message represents a political high-pressure sprinkling of what is left of the right-hand marinade of general government. But when the marina is gone, the propulsion part comes with the paint strip and wide brush – and it goes in black, black. There are no limits to the extent to which they feel that this message is – and then it is to reiterate the opposition to this administrative reform. I think it has to be a limit on how far you can go when it comes to making things differently from what they actually are – also in a political arena like the Stortinget – namely that the county councils are without tasks and without money. Let's take this with the money first, for example. money related to the task ‘other national roads’. For 80 pst. of the road network in Norway, we carry out the journey promise of times. We're billions above the level that the Progress Party used to be just in the vicinity of thinking. Now when they spend the money on both sides, and don't take any responsibility for the country's economy, it's kind of different numbers. The point is that county councils are entrusted with major tasks, not least in the road sector, and receive substantial funds, in the form of both interest-rate compensation schemes and free income, as well as the money spent for these purposes today. And this is just the beginning – it has to be stepped up vigorously, according to the national transport plan. At the same time, the county roads shall have a lift. It has been adopted at the national meeting of the Workers’ Party — and then it has been easy to become so. At least we think it's a nice form of work. In addition, the county councils are given a number of new tasks. I'm referring to the tipping agent, over 600 million. kr, which the county councils are to distribute – even that is not small money. The county councils are fully responsible for the vocational schools. A series of tasks will make county councils stronger than regional development actors. For those who want market power, it is an advantage to remove a democratic level, but for us who want democracy, the county councils are important. In Europe it is quite common to have three levels, so this is not strange. Rather, it is rather untypical in the European context to go for the solution that the Progress Party is going for, a solution that involves a dramatic change in the municipal structure. One thing the Progress Party should have: Right in that area they're at least not concerned with what people think, because there they're going to drive raw.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e626	I draw myself on the list of speakers to comment on something that I didn't get in my post. Let me start with the representative Holmberg. The example taken by the representative Holmberg is quite correct. There are many of us who are concerned about having to stand in line, but it has in no way anything to do with opening hours. It doesn't have anything to do with digitization either. It has to do with the fact that according to what is probably cost-effective for them, the different activities have chosen a solution that is cheaper than having people who can answer for the individual business. With the alternative Right budget for public administration, choose one of the options that one is forced to do. So you don't get one in the bag and bag. In 2004, the Borrowing Fund had 70 000 phone calls per week. After choosing to use the money to create new digital solutions, they are now down to 25,000 calls per week. They've saved 80 years. It's completely in line with what the Right and others have been in here. We need to save annual work in the public sector. We need to work more effectively, so that we use human beings for the tasks and services that need to be resolved by human beings in the future. When so many fewer calls actually ring in, you can't expect the Loan Box to expand its opening times, which is a consequence of the Right and Advance Party proposals in the option. You don't get a bag and a bag. One listens to a choice. We have a choice, and that choice has been greatly appreciated by the inhabitants. So the loan box has 50,000 fewer calls per week. People do the tasks in the Loan Box online, like in a regular online bank, and when it suits you. So it's easy to use, and it's easy to service over a low shoe. The representative, Holmberg, was also concerned that little has happened in the last four years, and that there is weak innovation capacity in the public sector, as she said. Let me give you an example: when I was a State Council in 2005, I inherited a proposal from Morten Meyer on how to shape eID in the public sector, which is the basis for us to digitize more and more services, not least those that are sensitive to people. It was a market model. We went to work on him. But we didn't want that model. The market wouldn't have him. We had to complete the whole model. We are launching our own bureaucrats to create a new model. Now we have 1.2 million users of public electronic ID. So innovation opportunities in the public sector are definitely present. We do not have to deny the work that is actually being done. So I'm just going to sign out Ib Thomsen, who asked when it would be possible to get a message online. It's coming. The Police Directorate's work on a new electronic solution for public relations in the police department, under this new Internet solution, will be launched on early September. It shall be possible to report simple offences involving unknown perpetrators, such as theft of mobile phones, bicycles, etc., according to the model of Sweden and Denmark. One also has ambitions to use the Altin solution in the long term to expand the digital service supply.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e641	The representative Tore Hagebakken swung to the big heights, which he often used to do. It's the Progress Party and the Right that get to taste the whip. The garden hill is talking about the big fighting in the county. Yes, it is possible, but the County Councillor in Sogn and Fjordne now wrote that one doesn't have ten to use to get back to the road sector. Then something must be wrong. After what I have heard, the position is not much better in our neighboring party either. Last Monday, a survey of the local economy was presented by the Statistical Centre, which also uses Hagebakken to brag homelessly. It turns out that the municipalities’ economy in 2008 had the worst result ever measured by the Statistical Central Bureau. The reason for the fall in gross operating surplus is that the increase in operating expenditure was clearly higher than the increase in revenue. It shows public numbers. Then I have to ask: what is the reason why the Central Bureau of Statistics has not succeeded in finding the fantastic local economy that the government party boasts about? Then the Hagebakken concluded that at least the Progress Party has committed itself to not caring about the will of the people when it comes to municipal convergence. Then Hagebakken has not registered that a statistic has now been presented that 51 pst. of the people will have larger municipalities. So I'm going to ask, what's wrong with that? And then I want to make it clear in the end that the Progress Party has no proposal, nor in its program, that we are going to merge municipalities with coerced ones. We're still sticking to the people's will, and we're saying it's going to be a people's retreat before one joins municipalities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e652	We in the Workers' Party also say in our programme that there is a need for changes in the municipal structure. Now we're pretty much on the side of the matter, but everything is related to everything, and we're demonstrating it to the full today. It is clear that if one is to cut the intermediate level, i.e. the regional level, and if one believes that it still has to be a waste of democracy, and that it is local knowledge and holisticity that must underpin the political priorities, then a fairly large municipality must be created if one is to have efficiency and make this work. Then there is no way but to use coercion. That means that the solution that the Progress Party stands for does not hold water, if one says at the same time that one will not use force. One does not get such large municipalities in Norway without using coercion. Then I would like to say briefly about the municipal economy that I am aware that 2008 was a demanding year for various reasons – the financial crisis struck, the wage-fixing process was expensive, but those who have increased wages deserve it. At the same time, the approach now put forward in the context of the revision, and the municipal proposition, of SEK 5.3 billion, is as much in one municipal proposition as Erna Solberg proposed as the municipal minister in four years, when the Progress Party was the negotiating party. The progress party got to draw it up a little bit, but there's not much to divorce with, in relation to the sums we're operating with right now. But the municipalities need every penny that we now provide.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e661	I share with the representative Hagebakken's considerations that we are now moving a little bit on the outside of the core of what we were really going to discuss today. At the same time, you draw up some important things that I assume we will also continue to debate tomorrow. But one goes a little far when one sees the efforts of the previous government and former government council Erna Solberg on the municipalities as synonymous with what the Progress Party stands for. The progress batch was in opposition during the previous period. Be aware that the Progress Party has proposed additional funds to the municipalities throughout the current period – in addition to the Government's own proposals. The party of progress is the party that has clearly wanted to strengthen the local economy, and even though we're using a different system, we realize that we have to deal so far with the system that actually exists today, but it's a significant strengthening in relation to the government's arrangement. Last, in the context of the 2009 state budget, the Progress Party proposed an increase of 4.8 – almost 4.9 – billion kroner in addition to the government’s plans. Then for a community merger. I don't know what you're basing on, but it's not like the Progress Party – even if you try to give the impression of it – wants to coerce in community mergers. But the representative Hagebakken says quite a lot himself when he says that the need for community reunification is clearly present. So there are ways to do this that are not about using whips, which are not about using force, which is not about pushing – I would almost say – the municipalities to do something they disagree with. It's just to look around in the Nordic region – look at our neighboring country, to Denmark, not least, who managed to get a process that got the municipalities involved. That's in the direction that you should think about. Then you don't have to use the whip at all. I believe that the vast majority of local politicians in the municipality of Norway, in general, understand the problem and understand that in order to be able to carry out their role in local democracy, there is a need for larger and more robust municipalities. I hope there's an understanding among the biggest parties in this room that you should work in that direction. But making this a game where you use whips and coercion is, of course, completely out of date.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e673	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 2nd@item: inlistbox [[See page 3812]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e690	This is a proposal from the Progress Party to change the way in which the pay of judges in the courts and the law of law is determined. The Committee has been divided into a majority and a minority. The majority is made up of all the parties, minus the Progress Party that wants to change today's system. Today's system is such that these judges are remunerated by the Ministry of Renewal and Administration. This is based on a 1999 protocol, which is a ten-year-old protocol between the social partners and the ministry, which prejudges wage fixing. The Party of Advancement is clearly afraid of the independence of the courts and fears that strong ties will be established between the wage-setting parties and the courts. I don't think there's any reason to fear it and have that anxiety. We in the majority also see that we have a system in place here that the social partners agree on, and we believe that it is important that wage fixing is done through negotiations between employee organisations and employers. Here's a found form that the parties agree on. The Protocol opens that if one of the parties wishes to change this, they may take it up. Neither the country in which the employer or the organisation wants to change this way of determining wages or salaries. So we feel that this is a good way, that's a right way, and it doesn't create any addiction that threatens the integrity of the courts.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e701	The rapporteur in this case, Rolf Reikvam, said in the previous case that the debate in that case was not much about what was the main thrust of the big message. He can basically say that about the majority's relationship to this position, too, because it's not much of a matter of fact. There are three main reasons why the majority of the Committee will not accept the proposal of the Progress Party. One is that it is a fundamental principle that the social partners agree to pay. The second is that the parties have not initiated any new negotiations or any desire for new negotiations. The third is that a non-political review of a well-functioning negotiating system should be carried out. This isn't even in the edge zone of what is the principle starting point of the proposal. The principle of the proposal is about what happened on the painting behind it: the Constitution of 1814 and the principle of power distribution that was laid down there. The independence of the judiciary is a fundamental principle, and there must be independence between the legislative, the executive and the judiciary. Today, judges and officials are appointed by the Government. The same officials are paid by the Government, and this is a clearly dependent relationship. It is strange that the majority of the committee does not even discuss the issue it creates when the state is a party to the court in an increasing number of cases. There, therefore, the State meets as a party to the judge with whom they have appointed, the judge with whom they have negotiated wages, and the judge who is next to negotiate pay with the State. That the potential principal challenge that lies there is not even worth a sentence from the majority of the committee, I think is strange. The independence of the Court of Justice shall not apply solely to the Court of Justice. Today, there is another way to calculate the salary of judges of the Supreme Court, particularly in the case of the Court of Justice. in order to ensure the independence of the Supreme Courts from the State. Of course, the independence of the courts applies to the entire judiciary from the jurisdiction to the Supreme Court. It is therefore strange that this issue is not mentioned by the majority in the vote either. In fact, the Progress Party wants a whole new way to appoint judges and officials than is the case today, in order to ensure the independence of the judiciary in an even better way. The relationship to pay and working conditions, especially pay terms, is an important element of the everyday life of the individual judge, and I had hoped that in this case we could have had a debate that was somewhat more fundamental than to say that it is a fundamental principle that the parties negotiate in the manner in which they have always negotiated, without devoting a single sentence on the principle of independence to the judiciary from the majority. It's sad, but I take note of it. Nor am I going to help prolong the debate to provoke any reactions. But this is not about negotiating techniques. It is a question of rigid, fundamental realities in relation to how we will guarantee the independence of the courts in the future. With that, I take up the proposals of the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e716	The representative Anders Anundsen has taken up the proposal he referred to. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 3rd@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3813]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e735	At the request of the Business Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e744	The public is about 270 billion dollars a year. These are the community's resources, which must be exploited in the best possible way. It is therefore important that the public act as a professional and tidy buyer, following all the laws and regulations. Better procurement procedures in the public sector can free up large amounts of money for other things. Most people should be able to trust that public procurement takes place in a socially sustainable way. This big message is the last in a long series of actions by the Government during this period, which shows that public procurement is being taken seriously and high on the competition policy agenda. Guide to ensuring good procurement has been prepared. A penalty system is in place, with fines of up to 15 pst. in the case of illegal purchases, and a management and ICT management directorate, called Diffi, has been created. The committee has had a hearing on the matter, and both of the two hearing bodies that met, NHO and KS, were very pleased with the message. Competence, information and guidance are prerequisites for proper compliance with the information legislation and it is emphasised in the message. In this setting, all parties – with the exception of Right – that I see are not here today, they are on their way – underline that purchasing is a responsibility for the leader. Leaders shall be responsible for placing the procurement work in a strategic context and ensuring that the enterprise has the necessary competence to make the procurement in a proper manner. The public sector is a central player in the market and is therefore important in a commercial policy context. A strong and effective public sector capable of renewing as needs change is important to ensure good services across the country. By being a demanding customer, the public sector can stimulate innovation and innovation. Good dialogue between the public sector and enterprises is very important. In the health and care sector in particular, it is important that we find new ways to solve these major problems. More innovative purchases can help to develop new processes, goods and services. Strategic use of public procurement can stimulate business to focus on innovation and thus help make our business more competitive. It is also important that public, through the use of environmental requirements, stimulate innovation in the environment, so-called green innovations. The right and left sides have a slightly different approach to public procurement. A major discussion during this period has been the threshold values and the so-called 'little Dophin'. When we raised the threshold to 500,000 kroner, there were large protests, among other things. from Right. For this reason, it is important that more people note that the rise in the threshold from DKK 200 000 to DKK 500000, as one did in 2005, actually has our socio-economic viability. It is the conclusion of Aplan Viak, who has evaluated the impact of the changes. It turns out that both suppliers and purchasers have saved money on simpler purchasing processes and that the loss of any reduced competition does not exceed this gain. The new public law in force on 1 January 2009 will ensure that all procurement protocols and offers are publicly available. During the committee hearing, it was called for an easy way to access the procurement protocols – questions were asked – and so the majority have asked the Government to take a closer look at this, so that they can come up with a good solution before introducing new arrangements, as proposed by the opposition. We attach the message to the protocol, and the opposition will certainly present its own proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e761	Let me first thank the case rapporteur for the work he has done on this matter – it is a big and important matter. It might have been desirable to have a little better time for consideration in the Committee to address various issues, and that the communication had come at a time when there had been a little shorter days on the Stortinget, so that we could have a broader debate and engage more people outside the nutrition committee. As the rapporteur went on to say, the public sector purchases goods and services for over 270 billion kroner per year. years – in other words, it is a formidable matter. What it has been interesting to follow are the National Audit Office's revelations and extensive observations on breaches of public procurement rules. We think that's serious. In the case of municipal and county councils, the same conditions have been revealed there. It's serious. I want to point out what the Riksrevision came with in January this year, and the press release where the Riksrevision writes that they are: ‘in particular, concern that the administration is unable to comply with and practise the public procurement rules. Many of the same agencies are given almost equivalent observations relating to breaches of procurement law as in the latest audit report. The high attention paid to this area by both the National Audit Office and the Committee on Control and Constitution of the Grand Duchy have not resulted in any particular improvement.’ It is a very serious criticism that emerges. Further: «Achievement law remains an ongoing problem in the country. Five departments and a number of underlying agencies have received comments on their own acquisition activities. For the third consecutive year, the Riksrevision has comments that the procurement rules are not complied with in the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, which is the regulatory manager in this area. This is an area that we have been critical to for a long time, and where we unfortunately see few signs of improvement." It's serious. I expect the Council of State in its intervention a little later in the debate to tell me exactly what the departments have done, and what the departments will do in the future. It can't be so easy to take on that kind of task when you're managing such large values. As I said, we are pleased that the message is coming, but we are calling for more action in the message. This is also why the opposition has made a number of proposals in the vote. Unfortunately, as usual, the opposition does not have a majority, because the red-green votes do not support our proposals. We are concerned that the legislation becomes clear and clear, both in terms of the provider and the purchaser, and that there is a level playing field. It is important for us that there is a mechanism for publishing which suppliers deliver goods and services to the public sector. We think it's important to be transparent, and that you have an overview of that kind of service, just to remove any kind of suspicion and doubt about how this turns out, and that those who compete have an opportunity to see how agreements are concluded. Equally important is strengthening the KOPA. There's a lot of ways to do it, and there's a group that has to look at what's going on there. We also promote proposals to establish a supervisory system for public acquisitions. In such a system, it can be assumed that KOFA is a body dealing with that kind of issue. With this, I address the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting together with other parties in the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e795	The representative of Øyvind Korsberg has taken up the suggestions to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e798	The Christian People's Party welcomes the fact that there is now a big message trying to follow up the extensive criticism that has come from the National Audit Office, about violations of procurement regulations at different levels of public administration. It is important that the legislation is clear and open to both providers and purchasers. Increased competition to be a supplier to the public contributes to improving efficiency and innovation in Norwegian business. This ensures the best possible quality at the lowest price, good service and follow-up agreements, and not least prevents good purchasing routines from corruption or suspecting it. Many of the Government's proposals are positive, but there are also some significant gaps. The Christian People's Party and the other opposition parties therefore propose a number of improvements. Not least, the Christian People's Party is disappointed that the Government is continuing to place people on offer. This is in spite of the fact that the EEA Agreement opens up derogations for non-profit organisations providing health and care services. The cynical release of competition frames users across the country who have resided in voluntary institutions providing child protection services and care. Firstly, the Christian People's Party is asking the Government to make proposals as soon as possible to ensure that, under this child protection service, ideal health and care services are exempted from the requirement to provide public procurement laws. Secondly, the Christian People's Party of the Government urges the Government to ensure that Health South-East follows the contractual practice of health and care services followed by the other health regions. Thirdly, the Christian People's Party would like the Government to make proposals as soon as possible to ensure that the municipal property in ideal drug treatment sites is removed, so that the municipalities are confronted with the same economic situation, regardless of whether the municipality is using a non-profit institution or a state institution. On the basis of this, I take up the suggestions made in the configuration.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e811	The representative Ingreigt S. Sørfonn has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e814	It is a pleasure that the Government has provided a big message about public procurement, as public procurement is one of the most important buyers in our country. Simplification of the procurement procedure and clear guidelines provide a major efficiency gain in maintaining the procurement rules both by the provider and the purchaser. The left agrees with the Government at many points in this Communication, but we believe that at some point the Government lacks the willingness to implement these measures, as there is a lack of a plan for putting the good intentions into practice. Examples include environment, working conditions, individual adaptations and innovation. The left is pleased with the setting of environmental requirements for public procurement, because, as a purchaser as large as the public sector is, this could lead to companies supplying environmentally friendly products having a much greater chance of surviving and developing the business to become more competitive towards the rest of the market. As several other speakers have pointed out, in several reports, the Riksrevision has for many years revealed widespread violations of public procurement rules. Riksrevisor Jørgen Kosmo says he is ‘in particular, concern that the administration is unable to comply with and practise the public procurement rules. This is worrying, because if the public is unable to comply with its own legislation, there is a great danger that the legislation will be nothing but a good intention.» The left shares the concerns raised by the Riksrevision. The left is also positive that the Soria Moria declaration of raising the tender threshold from the level of DKK 500000 up to the EU level, which in 2005 was around 1.8 million. kr, is now being scraped. On the other hand, there is reason to believe that the red-green government's signal of such a deterioration in the procurement law, combined with the fact that the simplified obligation to publish was dropped, has not stimulated the state and municipality to take the legislation more seriously. The members of the Committee from the opposition, including the Left, indicate that the Government is not nearing the target of 25 pst. public acquisitions shall be made through electronic commerce and the objective shall not be maintained in the notification. Electronic commerce will significantly improve the quality of purchasing practices but will have to lead to a certain conversion of purchasing procedures in many places. The left supports the fact that the government here, like in the area of simplification, goes away from concrete objectives. The absence of objectives weakens the follow-up possibilities. Therefore, the Left believes that the Government should have a concrete objective, concrete measures to achieve the objective and a method of continuous follow-up to the way in which it is conducted. Otherwise, I refer to the proposals that we are with other parties on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e835	Public procurement policy has been the subject of much debate during this major period. When the red-green government took over after the Bondevik II government, the government had just raised the threshold for demanding a tender from NOK 200000 to NOK 500000. It happened just before the government change. The aim was to simplify everyday life for businesses and for public purchasers. The tender law imposes a number of procedural requirements, which involve costs both for the purchaser and for the seller. The rise in the threshold was the result of a thorough cost-benefit assessment. The disadvantage was that competition could be weakened below the tender threshold, the advantage being that transaction costs would decrease. The Bondevik II Government carefully assessed the benefits and disadvantages and concluded that the tender threshold could be raised to NOK 500000 if, at the same time, a simplified notice obligation was introduced for smaller purchases below NOK 500000. The obligation to publish requires purchasers to provide a brief information on the purchase on the Internet. It was to ensure unbureaucratic compliance with the competition requirement, which also applies under the tender threshold, and that the business community was thus given knowledge of the purchases to be made, rather than that they were made in the form of unsolicited direct purchases. Then the government shifted in the autumn of 2005 and quite a few other tones in its procurement policy, to say the least. The red-green parties entered in the Government Declaration that the tender threshold should be raised to EU level, i.e. from 500 000 kroner up to EU level, which was 1,8 million at the time. kr, so the proposal would have substantially ruined Norwegian procurement policy. In addition, the Grande Røys State Council decided to scrape the simplified notice plan for purchases below NOK 500000. These two interventions were a clear weakening of procurement policy in Norway and gave a clear negative signal to purchasers in both state, county and municipality that follow-up to the legislation was not a priority area for that government. It goes without saying – I think almost most people see this – that when public procurement is made for around 270 billion dollars, it is of great social importance how these purchases are carried out. Purchases are also made against private enterprises, and they are known to be linked together in such a way as to ensure safe jobs, but also to maximise profits for shareholders. This, of course, means that you do not take one penny less than necessary for the goods and services you sell. This raises a number of issues of major societal importance. Do people get the best goods and services for the tax money society uses? Is there a real competition for purchases, so that you know that the best supplier has been chosen and that the price is as low as possible for the given quality? Are purchases made in a clean manner, or are they carried out in a manner that presents a risk of corruption, camaraderie, immaturity and lubrication? Do enterprises – thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises – have a level playing field and have easy knowledge of the purchases to be made? It's unfortunately easy to answer a loud no to all of these four questions. Repeated reports from the National Audit Office leave no doubt: purchases in Norway do not take place under the legislation, and the risk of waste, camaraderie and pre-distribution is high. The same is illustrated by a number of relatively embarrassing revelations related to the ministry’s own purchasing practices, including in offices under the Ministry of Renewal — which should be a matter of considerable concern to the Council of State. The Storting Message The good procurement is made to meet the criticism of the Riksrevision. The right is in favour of a call for tenders, and we are in favour of actions that strengthen competence, which provide more guidance, and which are positive initiatives to enhance the quality of procurement in Norway. However, the right considers that we need stricter regulation, more active follow-up and supervision and greater transparency in public procurement. It is also easy to read the removal of the objective of electronic commerce as clearly defensive. On the other hand, we are delighted that we are going away from the promise to raise the tender threshold, but it was a long step backwards initially. The right is therefore the co-rapporteur for a number of suggestions in the vote: – Simplified publication obligation for purchases between 100 000 and 500000 SEK – Introduction of objectives for electronic commerce – Establishment of supervisory function for public procurement, not just a complaint body – Publication of procurement protocols – Publication of who delivers goods and services to different levels of the public sector These proposals are designed with a certain reservation about investigation, so we ask the Government to evaluate these matters carefully. Acquisition policy has started poorly and has been a neglected area during this large-scale period. The cancellation message is good, but it needs to be stronger in order for the citizens to get the goods and services they should receive, given the resources that are being deployed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e892	Let me start by thanking the case spokesman and the committee for the work that has been done, not just in relation to the message, because, as several of the representatives have been involved, this is a topic we have discussed and had good discussions on, and I also believe that we have had a common goal over the entire four-year period. The Stortning Message has a comprehensive overview of what has been done to improve and simplify the rules and strengthen enforcement, and not least shows how the creation of the DIFI improves the user's ability to provide guidance and new tools. But there is also a message pointing forward and saying what to do. The monitoring of violations of the rules shows that the causes are numerous and complex. Some offences have been caused by lack of legislative competence and professional knowledge of the enterprises. Therefore, the efforts to provide users with a good guide must be resumed. The message also shows that many of the broken and bad purchases are written from the missing leader focus. Without the availability of adequate resources for purchasing, in terms of human beings, time and money, other measures that we have seen will not be effective. Working on purchases must be valued as a profession. The government's commitment to increasing the use of electronic solutions is important in order to improve and streamline public procurement. The imposition of an electronic invoice may help to release billions of dollars in the public sector, and it is therefore an order for the Government to intervene. FAD has also now concluded a framework agreement with KS to facilitate the electronic implementation of competitions, i.e. the development of a new e-commerce platform. In addition, the EU has given us the task of renting a project, PEPPOL, which is to make it easier for the public sector in all European countries to make cross-border purchases. This is a recognition from the EU that Norway is fully committed to the development of electronic services and commerce – that is, to the full! It was planned, as I said, a separate web invoice portal for companies that did not themselves have solutions for an electronic invoice. Thus, the provision of services for electronic solutions in the purchasing process is getting better and better. By carrying out systematic measurements of use, we will be able to follow developments closely and initiate targeted action to increase use. The fact that we're doing systematic work shows that we're taking the challenges seriously and have high ambitions, we don't in any way write down an ambition of 25 pst. – it is also in the letter from me to the Committee. With KOPA as a complement to the courts, Norway has a good enforcement system for public procurement rules. According to the majority of users, KOFA is perceived as fast, reasonable and less conflicted than court proceedings. In particular, they are satisfied that KOFA is a low-threshold offering that provides clarification on fundamental issues. The government has increased your permission to KOPA by just 5 million. in the period – from 3.5 million. from 2006 to 8.87 million. in 2009. It is precisely to give users an acceptable period of time. The entire appeal procedure shall now be opened. The EU has introduced a new enforcement directive to be implemented in Norway. We've downloaded a selection to assess how the entire Norwegian enforcement system can be organised. I think that, with the measures to increase public procurement competence, it will improve compliance with the rules, and therefore it is not advisable to create more bureaucracy around public procurement, as a supervisory system would be. The threshold of SEK 500000 will be raised. It's a good economy to leave it unchanged now. However, regulatory calm and stability have been the most important consideration in the assessment of keeping to the threshold and in the issue of the introduction of simplified notices. The introduction of a simplified publication obligation will present major challenges to purchasers and increase red tape and more complex purchasing procedures where it is not necessary. There's no more complicated legislation we need right now. The rules shall ensure that the procurement is open, that it can be verified and that it is conducted on a competitive basis. The rules shall facilitate the detection and prevention of corruption and corruption-like behaviour. With new regulations and new public law, the legal status has changed from a situation without obligation to keep a procurement protocol for small purchases, where the protocol could be exempted from public disclosure, to a situation with a duty to keep a record and where the protocol is public. There are important measures to ensure transparency of procurement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e914	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e917	I think the post to the Council of State was interesting, because here we have a government and a council of state that has been very passive on these questions in the time of the government. When the Council points to the explanation in its statement, it is therefore that there have been insufficient training procedures, insufficient focus on training, poor procurement procedures, etc. It is an effective way to throw responsibility down into the system. I really want to deal with the Council of State, which is responsible. The question then is, Will these conditions in relation to breaches of public acquisitions have improved in the next national audit report?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e924	I don't know if having completed the work on a new law, creating a new regulation, creating a directorate with a separate department that only works on procurement and guidance for procurement to both the state and the municipal sectors, creating new tools, both digital and new competences related to public procurement, and not least from the EU has got the recognition that renting a large EU project related to public procurement is passive. It is possible that it is presented by the representative of Korsberg. I don't recognize myself in that production. I've taken the national audit reports very seriously. We've got a better substantial number of crimes, but I'm sorry about the crimes. I have said quite clearly that I do not believe that this is a breach. We've changed the substantial purchasing organization in my department, and I've asked my fellow state councillors to do it, in their department, and have asked that it also happen down in the budgets, because one has had an overly decentralised organization around public procurement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e931	Fortunately, we are witnessing a full right of retreat in terms of the Government's promise to raise the public procurement threshold. But the problem is that this right comes after almost four years with this Government, and there has been a period of time without particularly effective measures to improve the state of procurement. Then we hear that the Council of State argues against a simplified notice for the companies in terms of acquisitions less than 500,000 kroner, that it would be bureaucratic for the municipalities, and that we should have peace of mind around the legislation. But this is so little bureaucratic that there are a lot of municipalities that have already introduced voluntary advertising obligations in relation to the publication of purchases for their own part. The reason is that it is very little work-intensive to announce a purchase. There's a little note on the Internet, and then the job is done. Have the Council of State found that the costs, benefits and disadvantages of simplified publication are at all consistent with the significant simplification it would entail for the companies selling goods and services to the public sector?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e940	Case Spokesperson Gunvor Eldegard began his speech by referring to the fact that on the hearings in the committee both the NHO and KS had been very pleased with the message. To put it that way, I rarely get praise from the NHO if they don't mean it. So I would certainly believe that the Right's presentation of this period, as they say, is completely without effective action, must be right's responsibility alone, and at least it will not find support, for example. in the NHO. When it comes to simplifying the protocol, the representative's reply tells us that he does not know what it actually means. It's not just to advertise in the newspaper that one should make a purchase, one must follow the offer that comes in. One must have legal certainty and one must ensure that there is equal treatment between the various providers. It requires a set of rules, which is not the full set of rules that you have above the threshold, but which is slightly lighter. So you have to have a whole new bureaucracy and new legal rules to ensure the equality of treatment that we in the Government are actually followers of.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e947	I'm not overly optimistic about getting an appropriate answer, because these are rounds that we've had before. But just as fully, this is a very important matter, and therefore I take this up again. We are in the situation that irreplaceable treatment sites, including in the field of child protection and care for the elderly, disappearing. There are places that are run by non-profit, non-commercial organisations, and the reason is that these organisations are treated in the same way as private, commercial actors. This means that non-replaceable institutional places can be lost. Here, there is a possibility in EEA legislation to make an exception for these organisations. My question is, does the Council see the difference between these actors, and will it do something about this?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e954	Yes – and I have replied to this earlier by the representative Sørfonn. But I like to repeat what I have said. When purchasing health and social services, the legislation never requires the use of supply competitions, for example: in the case of the purchase of child-resistance services. On the contrary, the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality has ordered the BUF to use only negotiations with the various non-commercial actors. I've said that before, and I like to repeat it. In addition, the February 2008 BUF budget, by political decisions in the Ministry of Children and Gender Equality, has been told to extend the contracts they have, so that these young people experience slightly more continuity than they experienced before, for example. The Bondevik II administration, when one had very short periods. There is every reason to make full use of EEA legislation – which the representative has in place – and to go for long periods. When a holiday contract can last for seven years, it would only be lacking if a child protection contract could not be equivalent.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e961	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e966	The majority, including the Christian People's Party, point to the speciality of social services and other Nav actions. Public procurement is about more than rules and competition between providers. Decisions on statutory services to individuals may be exempted from VAT. It must also apply to other legislation, for example: the procurement and procurement rules, where normal criteria, such as prices, may be subordinated to considerations more important for good implementation, such as the need for user proximity, the urgency, quality, long-term, stability, service, possibilities for good individualisation, to mention something. This area of action needs to be better used for the benefit of the user. It's about politics. That the Progress Party and the Right are not in, I am not surprised. I am more surprised at the Left's attitude to such an important social policy issue. The absence of policies can also have political consequences. Therefore, the majority of the cases state that there must be indications for the design of good forms of procurement for statutory services and actions for individuals. In the Labour and Social Committee, we have several concrete examples of the undesirable consequences of tenders that have been run after the procurement book, but which lacked the political leadership needed to clarify what one would achieve. When the policy is absent, the gap is filled administratively, and the result may be different from what is politically desirable. Decisions may be taken as to when and where tenders are to be used or when tenders are to be or must be used first: how are they to be drawn up? How many suppliers should one choose? A concrete example: Internally in Nav, it is claimed that municipal employees cannot carry out State-funded actions without winning tenders. Can it really be right - to win bids internally in the same establishment? The result is at least that good offers disappear. Another example: the Buskerud Labour Institute is the county's own offer to drop outs from secondary school. The county must therefore submit a tender to Nav. Had the Ministry of Knowledge been responsible, tenders would be superfluous. A third example concerns facilities for disabled people: many suppliers have always provided local services and individual adaptation. Suddenly it was decided that only one supplier should be chosen – good for the price, but not for the user. And who really decided to have just one supplier, which meant that the user had to adapt to the help instead of adapting the aid to the user? A fourth example is the Vegvesenet, which just wiped out 100 jobs for people with disabilities, as politicians had set up. Actually, we can't have it like that. This means that policy and management need to be strengthened, as the communication and the majority underline. It will be an important part of the further work on good practice to see the consequences of different choices when purchasing public goods and services.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e977	I think it is interesting to hear in the first place that Høre’s industrial policy spokesman characterises the public procurement legislation that exists in 27 EU countries, as a frenzy of Norwegian procurement policy. I have also noticed that the opposition parties regret that the Government is concerned with preventing increased use of resources and red tape in public procurement. I think the government in general deserves commendation for its work on simplification and red tape. However, opposition parties ignore such considerations when defending the competitiveness of businesses. Consequently, they propose that all public procurement from the threshold and up to DKK 100 000 should be published in a publicly operated database. Of course, it will have its price. Should there be any point in such a register, some have to file the notices, some have to collect and evaluate the offers, some have to manage the legislation, some have to check, some have to deal with complaints, and some have to respond to any breaches of the legislation. The rules governing public acquisitions are, of course, demanding. Anyone who has been responsible for public procurement in a certain order of magnitude knows that it takes time and it requires resources. There is, of course, a limit on how much use of resources we should impose on public authorities in this way. For this reason, this government raised the so-called public procurement threshold already in 2005 from NOK 200000 to NOK 500000. There was no lack of warning index fingers from the opposition parties, which also proposed a simplified notice of all purchases above NOK 100000 at the time. I find today that Aplan Viak, who has evaluated the impact of the changes, concludes that both the buyer and the supplier have benefited from simpler procurement procedures. In addition, it is paradoxical that opposition parties are now making more proposals which, in total, will contribute to an increase in public procurement bureaucracy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e986	The Christian People's Party proposes once again that the Government submit proposals to ensure that non-profit-making activities providing health and care services are exempted from the demand for supply osb. I only want to refer to the message, pages 22 and 23, where there is actually a full chapter on the purchase of health services from non-profit organisations: ‘The Public Procurement Code provides for a special exemption for the purchase of health and social services from non-profit organisations The exemption provides purchasers with a choice. [[...]] They may hold limited competitions where only non-profit organisations are allowed to provide.’ Furthermore, it says that the Government is busy with how to make the best use of the current legislation and the existing exemption for non-profit organisations. As I said, there is already an exception, but it is the buyers themselves who can decide whether they want to put out on offer or not. I have also seen that there are different practices around where Health South-East uses supply, while for example. Health West doesn't do that. What I agree with, and quite a few in the Committee, is that competition is not always a priority, and that some sectors in this area are not entitled to competition. The voluntary organisations play an important role for the Norwegian welfare state, and we think they are an important complement to public services. The working party wants the ideal and private non-commercial organisations to be an important contributor to the welfare state in the future and to facilitate it. During the debate here I record that both the Progress Party and the Christian People's Party, and the Left too, are concerned with violations of rules. So are we. It's serious. Therefore, the Government focuses on this. That's why we actually have a big message about public procurement. Right says the follow-up is not a priority of this government. Well, the ways of sanctioning, the creation of diff, information, knowledge and intelligence. A note that we also focus on the responsibility for purchasing is a right-wing remark, while the rest of the committee agrees. I'll call it a good follow-up! When it comes to electronic purchases, I notice that the opposition is most busy in percentages rather than looking at how we can use electronic purchases and expand their use, and we are further exploring what we can do by using electronic purchases and electronic tools as a more efficient tool. Finally, I would say that during this four-year period, the Committee has had a common focus on public procurement. We have at least had a common goal of good procurement.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1009	It is possible that it is a well-functioning method in school debates in Westfold to assign opponents to opinions they do not have, but in relation to the insertion of the representative Gullvåg, I have not said that the Norwegian legislation is a rage. What I said, on the other hand, was that the red-green government's promise to significantly weaken the procurement rules and raise the tender threshold to 1.8 million. kr was a very negative signal. When it was combined with removing the idea of mandatory advertising for purchases below NOK 500000, it was a weakening of the Norwegian purchasing policy. I think that was a signal that a lot of municipalities, state states and county councils got caught up, as the Riksrevision's review shows how it developed further. Then the representative of Gullvåg is concerned about public bureaucracy. Of course, that's also the right. Purchases are made in the order of NOK 270 billion per year. In other words, we're talking about 14 pst. of gross domestic product. It's about how much you get out of the heads and ears you give for public purposes. Clearly, you have to be willing to accept some procedures and some bureaucracy around it to ensure that you get a good competition, which means you get better services for the inhabitants. So Steinar Gullvåg says that someone has to react to a violation of the procurement law. I fully agree with that. It has to happen. It is therefore necessary to have a supervisory function instead of a review body. Everyone knows that a company that has lost a tender has no interest in raising a debate on a tendering procedure, because it will weaken its reputation against the public purchase. It is quite obvious that when it is in the interests of the citizens that procurement is carried out in a proper manner, one should also have a supervisory function on behalf of the public, not only a complaint body on behalf of the enterprises. To give an example, we have purchases of public service pensions of around NOK 23 billion each year. It's almost 10 pst. of all public procurement. There is hardly enough competition. The Competition Authority sent to the Council of State a letter on 18 March asking the Ministry to clarify that tenders for public occupational pensions should be made on a regular basis. So the Council of State answers that this is to be investigated, and that this takes time. Now we are in June, and I believe that it is such a simple question that if there was a clear willingness to ensure competition in such a large area of public procurement, the government should have cut it through for the longest time and simply declared that today's practice without tenders is contrary to the procurement law. Then I register that many boasts of what has been done. We have not gone against what has been done, but it seems quite obvious that not only do you need positive measures, not just carrots and training, you also need clear legislation and not least a clear follow-up to this legislation if you are to get these thousands of purchases every year to take place in a way that is good for the country's citizens.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1024	I am pleased that both the Council of State and the President-in-Office are positive in applying the rules of exception that exist for supply when it applies to non-profit organisations that operate their business. The point and the problem is that practice is different. Feedback indicates that this is not working. There is a different practice in different health regions. In reality, important institutional places, run by non-profits, can disappear. Therefore, we are asked in proposals that the Government ensure that Health South-East follows the same contractual practice as other health regions. Therefore, we also ask that the municipal property in ideal drug treatment places be removed, so that there is a real equality between a state institution and an institution run by a voluntary organisation. This is not about rocking the voluntary sector or non-profit organizations. They'll probably be fine. The point is that these are important, irreplaceable institutional places that mean a huge amount to users. They can disappear, and this worries the users. That's why we have to have this commitment in this case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1033	I just want to give a little response to Ingreig Sørfonn, because I really feel like we're playing on the same team, and we're on the same note. I want to underline something that I was in my first post, and it is that when we talk about purchases and consequences of the way purchases are done, practice is often as important as rules. It is said relatively clearly in the communication that we have the necessary legislation to organise this as we wish, and I also underlined the need for policy and management in the way the legislation is applied. This applies to both local politicians and central politicians, both at large and in government, and I think that the message is very clear – and the majority comments too – that we want to follow it up. It is based on the necessary reciprocity between politics and administration at all levels. The administration must realize that it is working in a politically controlled organisation. Therefore, the anchoring of purchases by administrative management, whether central or local, becomes absolutely necessary, and politicians must also understand that the signals must be clear and that the result of purchases is also policy. So it's all about this interaction between politics and administration, and there we have, whether we're leaders on one side or the other, an equal responsibility for this to work and give good results to our users.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1040	Then it seems that both consensus and disagreement are sufficiently debated. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 4th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3813]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1059	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 3814]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1076	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1085	The Ministry of Transport proposes a number of issues under programme categories 21.30 Road applications and 21.50 Railway applications. I'll comment on the majority's view in some of them, and I assume that the minority itself promotes its views and suggestions. In the past, the Storting has agreed that the responsibility for other national road networks should be transferred mainly to the municipalities and the Municipality of Oslo from the start of the administrative reform, cf. Inner.S. No 166 for 2006-2007. In St.meld. No 16 for 2008-2009, National Transport Plan 2010–2019, the case has been clarified. This issue concerns the classification of the national roads, including pedestrian and cycle roads, which are to become county roads, in Oslo Municipal Road, and proposals for the admission of county roads and municipal roads to become national roads in the context of the administrative reform. A total of 17 240 km of highway is proposed reclassified. The budgetary implications are mentioned in the Community proposal. On the basis of this proposal, there is a set of criteria for which national roads will remain after the reform. There has been a broad process in this respect. In order to respond to the views of the Hearing Officers, the Department proposes to maintain a few more road sections and ferry services than the Road Directorate provided. I refer to the Government's proposal on which parts of the other national road network and the corresponding pedestrian and cycle routes are to be transferred to the county municipalities and the municipality of Oslo, and I would like to note that the majority are essentially joining it, but we also believe that rv. 3/rev. 25 Löten–Hamar, rv. 13/rev. 55 Oppheim-Hella-Sogndal and Rv. 94 until the tunnelling of the Melande; still shall be highways. And rv. 4 south of the Sinsen Cross shall be reclassified to the State Road. The next item is the increase in the cost of the Krosby-Knapstad project in Østfold. Forecasts of the final cost of the project have increased to 1,314 million for various reasons. kr, and the Ministry of Transport thus proposes a new cost framework of 1330 million. 2009-krone, to be covered by 57 pst. State resources and 43 pst. tolls. The majority stress that it is very important that this project be implemented. The E18 Ørje–Oslo is the second-largest country foreign orientator after the E6 Oslo–Svinesund, and it is very important that this increase in costs does not delay the project. So it's very gratifying that the government has found a solution for its invasion. Then there is one thing that the Storting has dealt with several times, about the location of a toll station on county road 311 in Eastfold. As I said, it has been treated several times and has been the subject of extensive and comprehensive treatment. There are different views as to whether the toll station should be moved or removed in the relevant municipalities and counties. The majority of the Committee bases the assessments of the State Road Administration on traffic development, environmental considerations, road safety and traffic management and possible reduction of toll revenue that weakens the funding base, and therefore endorses the recommendations of the State Road Administration and the Ministry for Toll Standing. However, it is important that traffic censuses are also made in the future. So I'll comment on two more things in particular. One concerns the breed in Løsberga on E6 through Steinkjer, where the Committee stresses that we are very serious about the fact that in the case of blasting work on the project E6 Vist-Jevika-Selli in two cases in 2008, race went on and that it resulted in the closure of both the railway and road for periods. There has also been an additional cost of the project of 40–45 million. kr. In this context, a reference group was set up which has written a report with a recommendation. The conclusions of the report, which show that there are deviations and deficiencies, are very serious. However, the Committee takes the view that the above-mentioned work started by the State Road Administration in revising the existing guidelines, which, after the present report has been carried out, is being completed rapidly and that the State Road Administration will use this event as a basis for learning and assess whether any action should be taken. In addition, the Committee would stress another matter mentioned in the proposal. The signalling and securing system is referred to as Mercury. It was to be used at the Ganddal freight terminal, but it has not received the necessary approval. The Committee takes a serious view that this non-approval has resulted in considerable additional costs for the project and that there is still no good solution in relation to this case. I'll present the opinion from the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1108	I am addressing the proposals that the Progress Party is promoting alone or with the Right. The Progress Party is, as is well known in this Chamber, opposed to the administrative reform, i.e. the downgrading of other national roads and the transfer of national roads from the state to the county municipalities. We are also asking to have a separate case for a maintenance upgrade of today's tribal and national road network linked to the fact that the roads that are now being moved to the county municipalities have a accumulated maintenance maintenance run of NOK 12 billion. We also go in to remove the toll station at the intersection of county road 311 Osloveien and county road 7. We are in favour of the total cost increase in the Krosby-Knapstad project in Østfold being covered by the state. We are opposed to approving an extended collection into the existing toll system in Kristiansand. Then there has been a mistake in voting on the proposal made on page 6 of point 1.2.6 of the Bergen programme Hordaland. This proposal has not been included at the end of the vote. I'm dealing with the proposal set out in column 2 on page 6 of the setting. We want to do the foundation work for the second stage of the Ringveg West in Bergen, but we want to do the damage limitation with regard to the Urban Railway, which we believe is a faulty project. New traffic analyses show that what happened was announced when the case of the Urban Railway was treated as part of the Bergen programme, namely that traffic is increasing between the urban areas and not to and from the centre. We want to move forward with a rail-based collective solution in Bergen, but we want, as we have suggested several times before in Stortinget, to do so in cooperation with the Railway Agency and the NSB as an extension of today's railway network, primarily to Flesland, which is Norway's second largest airport. This will allow for a good traffic novation between the network and the aviation network. There is a possibility that it can also be linked to a future new freight port in Bergen, where the Flesland area is one of the most recent localisation options, and not least to a city railway, a local train, between the Bergen centre and the Fillingsdalen district, which is one of the major urban areas with over 40,000 inhabitants. It would be a good solution and meet the demand for transport services in a much better way than the Urban Railway and not least the extension of the Urban Railway will be able to do.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1121	The representative Arne Sortevik has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1124	The overall proposition contains a similar and different one. The right notes a section of the themes presented to Stortinget. Where we choose not to say anything, we agree with the rapporteur and the majority. We will first refer to our remarks and suggestions in Ot.prp. No 68 for the 2008-2009 Act on the Transfer of Rights and Obligations in the Reclassification of Roads in the context of the administrative reform. The right-hand side voted against. We are therefore opposed to the transfer of other national roads from the state to the county municipalities. In our opinion, such a transfer will lead to poorer roads in Norway by a fragmentation of the transport policy and uncertainty about the financing of 17 150 km of roads for which the state has direct financial responsibility prior to the transfer. Yesterday the United Nations announced that the county rapporteurs are now frustrated – and for good reason. The billion that the counties would have to rust up the worn-out highways of the county, crumbling away. Now the numbers are clear: the state Vegvesen gets 537 million. kr to manage the new county roads, while the counties are left with 463 million. kr. For comparison, 1 km of new four-field road costs at least 100 million. kr. So what's left of the administrative reform is that the states get the opportunity to build at the base of 5 km new road next year! The regional reform was mountained that gave birth to a mouse, the highways become the balancing post, and Norwegian drivers will still frown on the road standard. We agree to continue the development of the E18 Krosby–Knapstad, even if the project becomes something more expensive than intended. Once again, we are experiencing a cost cap that would have been avoided if the majority had agreed to the Right's repeated proposal to make the entire development of E18 through Akershus and Østfold a OPS project. At that time, the price tag for the expansion had been adopted once and for all, and the developer had been responsible for any overruns. This would have provided for faster implementation of the project while removing the uncertainty of overcosts for the country and the drivers. Furthermore, we have noticed that Akershu County Municipality and the municipality of Vestby want the toll station on county road 311 north of the intersection between county road 311 Osloveien and county road 7 Brevikwegen removed due to adverse effects on road safety and the environment along the Brevikwegen and the rest of the side road network. I have also noticed that the majority in this case expresses doubts as to whether it is a wise decision to continue the toll collection on the road 311. They are in favour of it, but at the same time ask questions as to whether frequent traffic censuses should be carried out to see if there is a basis for further action. We would point out that the remaining expansion of the Eastfold package is mainly on the E18. We therefore consider it not appropriate to continue the toll collection on the road 311. Together with the Advance Party, the Right proposal is that the toll station on County Road 311 be immediately removed. On the right, it seems positive that it is added to upgrade the Colsås track up to the Basin Room, but at the same time it would point out that the starting point for upgrading the Colsås track was that the track, naturally, was to be upgraded until Kolsås. The right will also refer to the large number of exceedances in the cost of the Oslopacket 3 projects for which the State has initially been responsible, and that this puts pressure on the financing of the other projects in the package, for example: The Colza Line. It is therefore gratifying that the Oslopack 3 Steering Group has now proposed to prioritise the continuation of Kolsåsbanen right up to Kolsås. A Colza Railway up to the Basin Room is not exactly a Colza Railway. The right refers to its proposals in the national transport plan and will point out that the Right will have its own pot of DKK 3 billion for the financing of urban railways/superbuses. In addition, we want to increase the reward scheme for public transport to DKK 1 billion annually during the planning period. We also refer to our comments related to the Wolf Split – Sinsen in the setting about Oslopackak 3 step 2, where we point out the unreasonable fact that all state overruns are being rolled over into the drivers. This puts pressure on Oslopackak 3 and raises doubts about the state's willingness to contribute to the greatest collective and road package of times. The right does not have any dissenting remarks in relation to the majority at the second point in the proposition, except that we join the criticism of the Christian People's Party regarding the signalling and securing plant Merkur. On the basis of this, the right will vote against paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of the vote, and for paragraphs 4 and 5, and will vote in favour of the two proposals that we agree with the Progress Party on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1147	I'm going to comment pretty briefly on two pieces of this aggregation proposition. Firstly, I would like to comment on reclassification of roads in the context of administrative reform. As I have expressed earlier from this pulpit, the Christian People's Party is to move power downwards in the structures. So we're going to go for the transfer of the rest of the highways to the states that it's now in place, also with the changes in the proposition. But, as I have also pointed out earlier: there was enough money to go with it, and as we heard from the previous speaker, dangerous information has come after the decisions were made. In connection with the treatment of the municipal economic proposition, we have stressed that the Christian People's Party will follow its promises: when we transfer tasks to the county council, it must also follow the money. We have added one additional free billion to the municipal economic proposition, as for example. shall be able to contribute to the strengthening of the other national roads which are now to become county roads. So to a point in the proposition where the Christian People's Party asks very critical questions. The signalling and marking system is Mercury, which is to be used for automation on Ganddal, on the Sandnes-Stavanger route and on the Nordlandsbanen route. I don't know if I'm going to take such strong words in my mouth, but for the Christian People's Party, it might look as if there's a scandal going on in that area, where we've ordered a facility that's not approved by Norwegian authorities, which we probably can't use. New installations need to be purchased, and we may get expenses of a total of SEK 1⁄2 billion, due to delays and the cost of buying a new plant. I see that the Railway Agency has started an independent review of what has happened, and I assume that the Stortinget will be properly informed about what the future will look like. What is particularly difficult here is that these plants have a significant delay in completion. On behalf of the Christian People's Party, I am particularly concerned about the Nordlandsbahn, which we have now been waiting for to be automated, and where it is possible in the future to double the number of freight trains on the track. Now it's going to be exposed. At the earliest, we can count on automation in 2011, probably it will take longer. That's very regrettable. What I also think is regrettable is that a stretch that really needs funds, not least for crossing tracks, is taken away from 100 million. kr, which is then transferred to the general purchase of equipment for the railways in Norway. In connection with the revised national budget, the Christian People's Party has brought this money back again, and we have committed 25 million. extra kr, so that for the Nordlandsban there is 125 million available. kr to speed up the construction of crossing tracks while waiting for us to get automation of the Nordlandsbahn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1158	I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a thorough and thorough review of the proposal. I too, like the representative of Greece, am pleased that the majority are positive about the continuation of the Kolsåsbanen and that the start of construction on the Jar–Bekkestua route will be accelerated until 2009, as requested by the management group of Oslopakte 3 and Akershus County Municipality. But at the same time, I would like to point out that the starting point for the upgrade was right up to Kolsås, which was also the representative of Helleland. The large number of exceedances in the cost of the Oslopacket 3 projects for which the State has initially been responsible puts pressure on the financing of the other projects in the package. The left considers that the State should contribute more to upgrading the Colsåsbanen, and will, among other things, contribute to the upgrading of the Colsåsbanen. refer to our alternative national transport plan, where the Left proposes to increase transfers to public transport in the municipal sector by over DKK 10 billion more than that resulting from the suspension of the government parties, and that funds should also be allocated to urban railway projects. Then I am pleased that the members of the Committee from the Workers' Party, SV and the Centre are aware of the cost increases on the project riksvej 150 Wolfen-Splitten–Sinsen. They are asking in a note that the Ministry of Transport must return to Stortinget with the matter in the State budget for 2010. The cost gap The wolf split – Sinsen is very serious for Oslo and the collective stake in Oslopakset 3.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1169	St. pp. No 72 addresses various issues such as road and rail. Of course, I am satisfied that the majority of the committee essentially agrees with the proposals contained in the proposal. In the proposal, the Government proposes that about 17 000 km of the rest of today’s highways be reclassified to the county road, in Oslo municipal road, in connection with the implementation of the administrative reform. The administrative reform is an important reform of the local selfgovernment and will give the county councils a number of new tasks that will strengthen their role as regional development actors. The main consequences of the reform will be seen in the transport sector. Collecting will take over about 17 000 km of the other national road network today. Following the implementation of the reform on 1 January 2010, the county will be responsible for about 44 000 km of long county road network, while the state will be responsible for about 10 000 km on behalf of it. The state road network following the administrative reform will be called national roads and will consist mainly of what we call tribal roads today. The traffic on the roads will be distributed by about 50 pst. on each of the behalf of the parties. In future, municipalities will be an important contributor to national transport policy. The state will play a particularly important role in the national road safety policy. I am pleased that the majority in the Committee agrees with the main principle of the Government's proposal on the reclassification of today's other national road networks. I'm in favour of the Committee's request that rv. 3/rev. 25 between Hamar and Löten, rv. 13/rev. 55 Oppheim-Hella-Sogndal and the section on rv. 94 from Hammerfest to the Melkoya plant shall still be national road. The proposal of the Committee may also have implications for the Vangsnes-Hella-Dragsvik ferry link, which the Government has foreseen to be transferred to the county. The Ministry of Transport will consider whether this link should also be State-owned as a follow-up to the proposal of the Committee. I'll come back to that. Towards the implementation of the administrative reform, there will be a review of the financial framework and adjustments may be made. In this process, it would be natural to look at the consequences of Storting’s decision to keep a little more road on the country’s hand. When it comes to the development of E18 in Eastfold, the Ministry of Transport has now asked the Directorate of Roads to make an assessment of possible solutions as soon as practicable with a view to a more stringent development of the road. The government proposes to extend the existing toll regime in Kristiansand until it is abolished by the commercial package for the Kristiansand region phase 1. The Ministry of Transport will make a proposition on this matter before the Stortinget as soon as possible. After that St.prp. No 72 were submitted, we have found that progress is too tight. I have therefore, in a letter to the Stortinget, changed the proposal for an extension from the 2009/2010 marketing year to the 2010 spring session to give local government powers enough time to put new arrangements into place. Until now, the State Railway Surveillance Authority has not found that Mercury could be approved as a signalling and securing facility. This is due to the fact that the new system, among others. is not well documented enough to determine the required level of security. This has resulted in delays and has incurred additional costs on the rail projects Ganddal freight terminal, double-track Sandnes-Stavanger and the remote control system between Mosjøen and Bodø. In order to limit the increase in costs, the Railway Agency, in consultation with the Ministry of Transport, has chosen to adhere to the Merkur contracts, leading to the approval of the General Certification of Merkur as a system by ABB. This will make it easier for the Railway Agency to obtain the necessary approval of Mercury on the three railway projects. System approval must be in place in the autumn of 2010. If this is not closed, a new offer is required from the Railway Agency. The physical work of installing a temporary NSI 63 facility is under way so that the double-track Sandnes-Stavanger scheduled to open in October this year. The application for use of the system is now for the management of the railway supervision. Based on what I have been informed, I have no reason to believe that the application will not be accepted. The railway station has already received the necessary dispensation requests. Of course, I am not satisfied with the problems that have arisen because of the lack of approval of Mercury. I want to wait and see what comes out of the independent study of the procurement and development process when it comes to Mercury, and how it has been managed internally at the Railway Agency. I am busy that it can provide us with a basis for implementing constructive measures, so that the railway works do not come up with similar situations in later purchases of railway equipment. I have noticed that the opposition party is aware of the fact that, in the context of the 2009 revised state budget, the government is proposing to move 100 million. kr from Nordlandsbana due to the delay of the remote control system. As presented by the Government's 2009 revised government budget proposal, most of the funds – a total of 84.5 million. kr – was used to buy new snow cleaning equipment and to increase preventive maintenance measures that can also be used on the Nordic route.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1199	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1202	I have two questions about the administrative reform – although we are going to deal with the municipal proposition tomorrow, I assume that the Minister for Transport also has opinions about it. First of all, to the one billion in free incomes: is it that half disappears in a bill paid to the State Road Service, which is therefore to serve two masters, both the remaining roads of the state and the newly acquired roads of the county? Is half of the billion going to disappear to that? The second issue of the same administrative reform is: What national leadership will come from central authorities? The Council of State has now recalled that the background to the reform is that county municipalities should be regional development actors. However, in other contexts where the administrative reform has been addressed, it has underlined some concern and signalled a desire for national leadership, in other words, in addition to the regional one. Will there be national leadership on road standards and ferry standards?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1210	First of all, I have to clean up the misleading production that was made in relation to the last billion, and that it is going to pay a bill to the State Road Administration. Of course, the state road system uses some of the existing means to build county roads, or what is today ‘other national roads’, which are district roads from New Year’s. These are the funds that will be earmarked. It's never been a question of the last billion. The proportion of existing administrative costs associated with other national roads has been at issue long before the start of the revised national budget, and that is the distribution made within the State Road Service’s existing budget. So I have to take a strong distance from trying to make it as erroneously as you see it in the media.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1215	This majority government is not known to share too much information with the Storting unless we explicitly ask for it. I'm dealing with the Nations, which I thought was close to the Minister of Transport, where it's called 537 million. kr the following year shall be used to manage the roads to be taken over by the county. The rapporteur-general of the South-Trendelag of the Workers' Party, who is speaking, is upset: ‘We have experience in ‘dealing’ with the state from before, in the context of the hospital reform. It was state robbery on a bright day, says Sandvik. Will the Council of State give the Storting a detailed explanation of what this money is going to do, and what money is now going to the administration? I did not get any wiser from the response the Council of State gave to the representative Sortevik. Is that so 537 million? kr of the last billion goes to administration, or is there any other million we're talking about? This could have been a good idea to get a written statement from the Council of State.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1227	Long before starting work on the revised national budget, where we added to the County Chart, there was, of course, an assessment and an explanation of how much of the existing framework of the State Road Service goes to administration. They know that from the annual report. It actually applies to the positions that the State Road Service currently has. And then there was a discussion about how this is distributed in relation to the tasks that are now to be done to bet the county set up against the tasks that are going on to bet the state roads. And that's the distribution that's made. Based on the length of the county roads, one might think that the sum indicated would be even larger, because it is a larger part of the road network. At the same time, part of the state roads are more complex, and part of the central administration as it is in the Directorate of Roads will be at the hands of the state. Hence, the distribution is so that it almost becomes fifty-fifty, and not even more widely distributed into the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1236	As I said in my post, I am concerned about the cost of the Wolf Split – Sin. Today I have been to a meeting where I got new knowledge about how serious this is for Oslopackak 3 and about the collective participation in Oslo. I am pleased with the remark from the government parties that this will be returned to the state budget. My question is whether the Minister for Transport shares this view, and whether there is something she will come back to in the State budget for the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1243	Which always makes the government council what the Storting and the plural have decided. Of course, I've also discussed this with the multiples, and I'm completely in agreement with what's going on here from Stortinget. I also agree with the representative Tenden that Oslopackak 3 itself is a very important matter. Of course, we will follow up and come back to this matter in the state budget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1248	As the setting shows, the Christian People's Party is concerned about what is now happening, because we are not getting automated on several sections because Mercury's purchases are not being approved, at least not now. So we see from the proposition that an alternative facility is to be installed on the Sandnes–Stavanger route. My question is, is there a plant that can stay standing if Mercury is not approved? And should it possibly be taken down if Mercury is approved? That's the one. The second is that we have submitted a note and repeated a wish, which has also been decided by the Storting, namely about these sleeping cars that were to be inserted into Kristiansand, Mo in Rana and the Mos Sea. It is actually a decision that they should be placed in Kristiansand. Why aren't these wagons here?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1257	In the case of a temporary NSI 63 facility, as also stated in the proposal, it is in the lead that it is a temporary facility and that either an approved Merkur system or a new offer is required. So as far as I've been informed by the Railway Agency and by my people, it's a temporary solution. When it comes to sleeping cars for Kristiansand, it has been a long canvas to bleach. For the will of the Storting was good and clear, and I share that will. What has our dilemma is simply to get access to the material that one wants. The size had also made funds available, even though they would not in any way reach, regardless of the system. But I now have discussions in the government, and I hope to come back with that matter in the budget, so that we get a final clarification there.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1264	I did not get an answer to my question about national leadership, but that is not why I asked for a reply. My question now is still about funding. The Council of State would like to insist on the opposition, we are used to it, but, as others have pointed out, there is also concern and confusion among the rapporteurs from the position, from the government parties, relating to whether the administrative reform, with the transfer of roads, is financed and how it is financed. So the question remains whether any of this extra billion will be used in free money to finance the services to be provided by the State Road Administration and the Road Directorate for the county when they take over former state roads, i.e. other national roads. That is what remains unclear, even for those who rule in the counties, so it is important that the Council of State can contribute to clarifying the funding of the reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1271	After the look-up in the nations, I have reviewed the minutes of the meeting where the deputy chairman of the Southern Tribe Team has been present, and written communication. None of the critical comments made in the nations are to be found anywhere, so we are to be expected to take the formal path as well. My answer is very clear: not a penny of that billion will go to the administration of the State Road Administration or the Road Directorate. The funds are all there today. They are in the existing budget, which is now outsourced by the State Road Administration. A part of the existing budget of the State Road Service is now linked to services to be provided by the State. Was that understandable, President? I hope so. The last billion is going to build a road around the state.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1280	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. Otherwise, the President does not believe that he should judge what is clear and not clear in such a debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1287	Maybe I can contribute to at least the confusion coming at a slightly higher level, because it was in view of the financing of the future county road network I asked for the floor. It was Trond Helleland and Jan Sahl who gave the noise to it, because they were busy financing. Of the contributions to Greece, one could perhaps understand it so that it was only this extra billion that the county councils would consult to keep up their road network in the future. I have to make it clear that what is at the bottom is the 2009 budget for ‘other national roads’. It's supposed to go to the county. If you look at the 2009 budget, there's a fairly large increase from 2008 to 2009, so it's already at a high level. Then, in the national transport plan, it is suggested that the national road should be stepped up for years to come. It is clear that a little dependent on the economic situation will escalate during the ten-year period in question. The same is not true when it comes to the county road, and at the Norwegian Labour Party's national meeting there were many who were busy with it. A decision was also made that the future county road network should have the same pace as the national road. That's what I think I'm following up through the municipal bill, where it's added the extra billion in 2010. If you look at the average over a ten-year period, it should be between $1.5 billion and $1.6 billion. But if one thinks it's going to be a stepping-up, it satisfies one billion it. So it comes up to what the state today uses on the same national road network. In addition, we know that the state of much of this road network is bad. This is why an interest-free loan arrangement of $2 billion is planned this year that allows county councils to benefit from. In the future, then, the county councils will be much more committed to maintaining and upgrading the road network than has been the case for the state in managing the exact same road network per. today.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1301	There may be some who are reassured by the two answers given by the Council of State in terms of funding. I'm not sure everyone will, but I allow myself through articles to ask another question. So it's known that there's a backlog of $12 billion on the road network that's being transferred. That's the department's own number. How long will it be, in the opinion of the Council of State, with the funding now provided by the State in connection with the administrative reform – or how long should it go – be more appropriate to say – before the maintenance of the state has been resumed on the roads that are now being given to the county authority responsibility for maintaining and which it has not been able to maintain once the state has been owned?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1308	This new reform, for which the county should not only be responsible, but also the ownership of what is now called county roads, from New Year's onwards, is an exciting reform, and I fully understand some of the uncertainties associated with how the county will be able to accomplish the task they are given – because it is a great task. For me, it is important to clarify that the state has, and will always have, a responsibility for ensuring that the transfers it gives to both the state and the municipalities to the tasks they are to carry out must be large enough to enable the tasks to be carried out in a good way. For us in the Center Party, there are some leads forward that not only will the 2010 border be passed on to the state, but there is also a requirement that the escalation should be equal to the increase in the state roads. That's what I think is important to clarify.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1315	A question was asked how long it should take to resume the maintenance process. Yes, it will depend on both the future frameworks of how the county itself is able to dispose of those frames. Because unlike before, since it has a pot for maintenance, a pot for investment and one for different areas, the county will now have full freedom to use the money. It'll probably be different from state to state. Someone has large investment projects that one wants to set first, and others want to focus more on perhaps having built up the most important projects and going on more maintenance than one has done before. I want to remind you that it's 34 pst. increase in the framework. When has a set such an extension been set before? When the Right – as I register today is critical of this reform – presented its transport plan, it was cut to ‘other national roads’ of SEK 700 million. Then I thought it was a very high and dark - I don't know if it's a parliamentary expression, President, maybe I shouldn't say it. But at least I felt that one is bold when one today is critical of a reform that is highly desirable in the county. After ten years of county policy, I am well aware of all the findings from the County Spokesman College and county councils around where one has asked to get these roads because one sees it as important to see regional planning across the board, see traffic, land policy and environmental policy in a larger context and not least towards business development and priorities along those lines. As with all the changes, I understand that questions have been raised both about development and about the state's willingness to follow up. Then I think that all those who ask the questions should look back at who has shown the willingness to follow up the county councils' economy, and who will then be a guarantor that there will be an additional escalation in the years to come – which is my goal for us to achieve.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1324	I like to look at myself as both tall and dark, but have probably grayed a little after a while. The reason I'm dealing with this is not to rematch NTP or take a new round of administrative reform. We've been dealing with that odelsting proposition. The background is the great look that the nation had yesterday. There, State Secretary Pollestad says that the State Road Administration has got less than they thought they needed. And he goes on to say, «We have distributed a part to the county and a part to the state road service. They said the total sum was 1.1 billion, and we've adjusted it down to $1 billion. Then we have distributed between state and state using the same distribution key that has been useful for operation and maintenance." He says that the department assumes that this number is correct, but if it turns out it doesn't, it's going to look at again: «We have a full interest in obtaining the most correct distribution possible, and we shall have additional quality assurance.» In response to the criticism of a lack of dialogue, he said: ‘I see that the dialogue before the municipal proposition could have been better. But that is what we are going to do now, through the dialogue that will be between the departments and the state, and the state's road system and the individual states.' This is very difficult for me to understand. It's possible I'm thin, but I have problems understanding what kind of distribution has been made, and what kind of distribution key has been taken into account. I think it would have been okay if the Storting could also be drawn into this dialogue that should be, at least be informed about what is happening. There shall be a dialogue between the department and the county and between the State Road Administration and the individual counties. Still, the Storting is the granting authority, and then I see at least from the opposition's point of view – and I think the position will also enjoy it – a need to know which distribution keys are used, how the distribution is done, and what numbers have been used. I am fully aware of what Mr Rudihagen said before, that the funds for the other national roads are of course at the bottom, that there is an increase of 1 billion kroner, etc. But I feel very uncertain about this, and it must be allowed to ask questions. Although we have a critical look at this administrative reform, and although we have voted against it, the opposition also has a right to know how these divisions are done, and to have transparency in what the department now intends to inform the counties of, and what the state road authorities are going to inform the counties of.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1348	When we were going to do this distribution, we obviously had to start from an overview of the state road system's operating costs. Then there was a discussion about what would be included in that distribution. It's right, as Pollestad says in the nation, that it was a little higher from the state road system than what was approved in the department. There's nothing special about it. It happens in many cases that adjustments come from the Ministry of Transport. There's no drama in it. It's about what one then includes. This is a review which is, of course, based on the actual costs. There is no hokuspocus. There is really no policy in it; it is simply a technical review. The College of Directors was briefed on 19 May. There is also the law of a full review, even at the level of detail, of this. I understand that the county councils feel that it may be necessary, but as I said, there is no policy in this. There's more technology than politics. What is important is that if that sum had been greater, it would have been even less left by him to allocate to the other programme areas, to investment, operation and maintenance. The fact that the Ministry of Transport added $1 billion as a distribution basis means that 100 million. kr could be used for the road – a transfer to the roadside and not for the management of construction processes and planning and everything else to do. We have a very good dialogue with KS. We have a good dialogue with the College of Chairmen and with the College of Councillors. There's been a lot of time spent by my people on that dialogue, and we've got a lot of positive back on it. It's clear here are many big and smaller things that you have to develop a common understanding about when you're going to do such a big reform like this. Because it is a major reform that the county has access to this road network. And they get so much money transferred, of course, there's an entirely different room for action to drive regional development.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1366	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 6th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3814]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1383	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1392	We are now going to deal quickly with two issues from Hordaland, with initiatives and applications from businesses and local authorities for user funding through tolls, in order to address an urgent need for the development of important infrastructure in their own municipality. The position in this case, on the Quamma package, is promoted by a majority of the Committee, all outside the Advance Party. The Quamma package contains significant investments and improvements in R & D. 7 between Norheimsund and Øystese and at Kvamskogen, but also measures in Granvin, at the crossroads between rv. 7 and Rv. 13, and improvements to Rv. 49 in Strandebarm – a total of 440 million. kr, of which only 10 pst. is financed by the State. There are many individual projects, and the plan work is on a different level, you might say. Toll collection shall take place in two automatic toll stations on the left. 7, at each end of the municipality, but in such a way that traffic from the west, which is only to the Kvamskogen, is not taxed. There is local political agreement on the toll scheme, and the majority of the Committee supports this. In addition, the same majority consider that local conditions such as the details of the implementing act and others. are discussed in cooperation between local authorities, the toll company and the State Road Administration. The majority have provided that the assumptions in the application must be met to the greatest extent possible, unless this significantly weakens the financing plan for the package. The majority of the Committee took note of the fact that an interest rate of 6,5 p.m. has been applied and that this has created a little discussion about the time of down payment and progress. The majority of the Committee would point out, for its part, that the interest rate currently stands at 1.5 p.m., and even the long-term interest rate fixation – five to ten years – is well below 6.5 p.m.. The majority of the Committee has therefore noted the favourable interest rate situation and should be seen in the light of both the total recovery time and the phase-in of the individual projects included in the package. It is the view of the majority that the decision of the Municipal Council on building time is within reach, but is confident that all such assessments are best made by those responsible for the implementation of the whole package, i.e. The state road service, local authorities and the toll company. The majority note that the funding is favourable by the provision by the county council of Hordaland of a guarantee of 370 million self-liabilities. kr. The majority of the Committee considers that ongoing assessments of the soundness of the package, up to the County Municipality guarantee framework, can best be carried out by the local group I mentioned, with the approval of the Directorate of Roads. There have been some formalities and a little back and forth during the procedure, but with the Ministry's proposal, with the addition of the Committee's recommendations and flexible understanding of the development process, this has become a matter that largely meets local and regional needs. It was supposed to be just missing, because these are the ones who assume responsibility and risk for 90 pst. of the funding — and that gets dizzy if something goes wrong. However, there is little to suggest in this case. So in a few years' time, the situation of road users and locals in this area has greatly improved.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1409	There are now, with this case, four toll cases in the Stortings last week of the session – and also during the period. Earlier in May-June, we have had four additional toll proposals. The overall picture, as we've also done in the vote, is that the sum of all of these things that come to the very end is an investment amount of over 12 billion kroner – and the drivers have to pay over 12 billion kroner. They must initially pay a toll percentage, a special tax fraction, of 70 pst. So when we calculate the cost of interest and the collection costs, which together amount to more than NOK 3.6 billion, the total bill for the drivers is going to be about the same as all the projects cost to implement. In addition to the eagerness to use special taxes via landfilling of such cases, these last cases have in common that it has gone very quickly. There is limited opportunity to address the individual issues. I'm sorry. I wonder if we have had the opportunity to address claims that come from at least one company affected by these measures, namely Hardanger Holiday Centre. They claim to have their company destroyed in the implementation of the project solution and mention expected compensation costs of between 30 and 40 million. I don't think anything about it in the proposition. I wonder if it's known, and to what extent it's taken into account. With regard to the use of tolls, extra tax, it is tempting to link a small connection to Thursday last week when we dealt with the national transport plan. I noticed that in the debate on the use of Public Private Cooperation, OPS, which came a little towards the end of a long debate last Thursday, the Minister for Transport said: ‘While, as a rule, private individuals have a relatively slumped wallet, there is a well-stocked state fund, good government finances, which means that there is no need to build a way of making payments.’ But that's what we're doing here. That's what we're doing in this case, in the next case, in connection with St.prp. No 82 for 2008-2009, about E6, and that's what we do in the so-called environmental package for Trondheim, in St.prp. No 85 for 2008-2009. It's buying a way of paying off, without at least asking the people directly. Right, it can be said that there's a local majority to do it this way. But we still ask ourselves if it is well enough informed about the large extras involved in buying the way by way of payment, because this is going to be expensive. Let me address our proposals, which are about the state funding of the measures. To avoid some misunderstandings, let me also stress that we believe that there is a need for action. There is a need to create better conditions both for those living in the area and for those using the roads through the area. Let me also point out that the location of the toll stations draws the utility concept quite far, as many of those who are going to pay tolls are not going to benefit directly from these improvement measures, which are mainly to be done in the area between Øystese and Norheimsund.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1425	The representative Arne Sortevik has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1428	I am pleased that the Stortinget will today support the proposal for partial toll financing of the Quamma package. As noted by both the suspension and discussion here today, all the parties agree to follow up the decisions taken by the County Council of Hordaland on 10 December 2008 in this matter, with the exception of the Progress Party. The County Council of Hordaland and the Municipality of Kvam have agreed to submit a toll application for funding for projects and actions in Rv. 7 and Rv. 49 in Kvam Municipality of Hordaland, Quammapackak. Existing roads have poor standards, mainly. On several routes, measures are needed for walking and sick people. The package includes some new road links, repair of existing roads, walking and cycling roads, pavements and cross-repairs, and has a total of 440 million. NOK 2009. As a result of the management reform, Rv. 49 and those parts of rv. 7 included in the package, reclassified into county roads, and the introduction of state resources must be licensed by the county. That's 90 pst. toll belt. Toll collection has been locally estimated to exceed 19 years. It's added up to both parallel and post-expulsion. This is normal for packages. There is local political support for the tolling system. The Ministry of Transport assumes that the claim may exceed 20 years if there is local political support for it. Toll packages are more flexible than toll collection for individual projects. It is assumed that the scope of the extension of the Quamma package will be adapted to suit the financial framework. A maximum loan take-up of 250 million is assumed. kr, based on a construction period of eight years. This is four years longer than was foreseen in the local treatment and has been done to increase flexibility. All cost supplements are provided within these financial frameworks for the Quamma package. A majority of the Committee would point out that if the economy of the package is better than planned, local authorities, in cooperation with the State Road Administration, can see whether the package can be built faster than over eight years, and whether the collection period can be set at 19 years instead of 20 years. The majority specifically indicates that it should be possible to achieve lower interest rates than 6.5 pst. Of course, the Committee's comments will be followed up, with the limitations that the majority have also taken into account for the economy and for the health of the package. In this context, I would like to point out that one will know much more about the economy of the package when the toll collection has worked for at least a year, and one has come further with the planning of the smaller measures. One will then have a better basis for deciding whether to collect more than 19 or 20 years, and whether to shorten construction time. The fact that the Progress Party is not content with the fact that local government powers, with the county council at the head, see it as the best solution to go in for partial toll financing in the development of the national and county road network, is not surprising. The comments and suggestions from the Progress Party can only be viewed as part of making their principal resistance to tolls more visible. In fact, when it comes to what was said by the spokesperson about OPS and tolls versus payment, there is a difference. What we discussed in connection with OPS is gallant when the State enters and funds. Today, the State has a room for action that should be used for increased investment, for example: in the field of transport. After 2020, the space for action will shrink as a result of a need for other sectors, not least in the elderly. That one then points to a great deal of activity in relation to Private Public Cooperation, OPS, where the state’s large payments will mainly come after 2020, does not depend. Of course, when it comes to tolls, one can also say that it's about tolls. At the same time, tolls are about researching projects that, in the ordinary process, through priorities within the state framework, had to wait a long time. With the Progress Party's strong resistance here in this hall against tolls – we know that it is not as strong or as strong around the country – there are many good projects that had never been built.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1451	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1454	This last one was exactly as expected. I repeat the opinion of the Council of State from last Thursday, where she used the term ‘well-filled treasury, good government finances’. In this case, neither the well-filled box nor the good finances are used for the necessary roadside measures. It's our errand in this case, just as it is in other matters. Then we get a record that we have different views on how we can connect the state's well-filled box to all the necessary projects. I would like to ask a specific question related to the choice of solution, which I had in mind in my article. As I've seen it, it's been promoting a long tunnel alternative. It's one of the main projects here. Proposals for an open-ended solution have been made, and there have been recordings on the fact that this is about large claims costs. Is it familiar?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1461	We've been following up on the plans that a local has agreed on. Unlike the Progress Party, I have a strong belief that a local engineer is able to find the best solutions and weigh the disadvantages that have to be met by individuals. We know that building new roads and expanding roads can lead to disadvantages for some. One must of course try to reduce the disadvantages, but I can't go into discussions about various suggestions that have been made in the process here. I only support the decision in the district of Hordaland and in the municipality of Kvam. When it comes to the promotion and use of the well-filled state treasury, I would like to remind you that this government is investing so heavily in trade that the opposition has found it necessary to point out that we have more money to spend – even though they well know that the underlying growth during this period has been somewhat similar to the underlying growth in the previous period. The priority of trade has been strong in this government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1470	No more words have been asked for a line. No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 7th@item: inlistbox [[Food, see page 3815]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1489	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be a change of line of up to five lines with replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1498	This matter concerns the toll-financed development of the road network in Bømlo, a municipality I also know very well. In this case, the Bømlo package is referred to as a measure for a number of national and county roads of graceful standards, which – through these measures – are thus equipped to become roads of modern and decent standards. The entire package is cost-based for a billion kroner, of which 12-15 pst. covered by government appropriations. In other words, this is a formidable local lift to restore the roads of an active and prosperous municipality. Bømlo is the largest salmon farming municipality in Hordaland, the largest salmon county. In a short time, 60-70 pst. all farmed salmon in Hordaland are slaughtered in Bømlo, mainly in three slaughterhouses. In Bømlo, there are companies that are world leaders in ship propulsion, ship servicing and electronics, and there are several shipping companies. It is also a very rich cultural life, with great events every year. Businesses and the municipality’s inhabitants – 11,000 in number – therefore have a high transport demand in a relatively decentralised and five-mile-long municipality, located between Haugesund and Bergen. The traffic base is 2700 at the two entry points, which are located on the two possible access roads of Bømlo – one with ferry connection and one via the Triangle connection. The bamboo package can therefore rightly be defined as a bombardment. Following the opening of the Triangle Connection — with a fixed connection — in 2001, a formidable traffic growth and development in the municipality has been observed. The majority in the municipality, all except the Advance Party, are behind the package – as the majority in this room. We therefore support the package in the committee's recommendation. This probably also delights the local forces who have worked on the matter for many years. The Ministry has calculated a borrowing rate of 6,5 pst. also in this case. As I mentioned in the previous case, we have a interest rate of 1.5 pst. NIBOR-based, county-guaranteed loans will be marginally higher in the liquid market at present. Also, longer interest rate fixing, in five to ten years' time, is currently beneficial. The majority have therefore recommended that interest rate risk be considered as early as possible. Such coverage will provide a solid buffer against any other negative elements in terms of costs and traffic development, but also represent a solid reserve. The majority have therefore pointed out that this may mean that individual projects can be realized more quickly within the same loan guarantee framework, provided, of course, that the economic risk does not increase significantly. In terms of fares and discount structure, the majority, in consultation with the Ministry, have found a sensible solution to a situation that was not fully clarified in the assumptions. The proposition is that the municipality wanted the same discount system as in the Haugalands package. The Haugaland is in close proximity. The terms of the Quamma package, which we have just discussed, are relevant to the Bømlo package. The majority consider it reasonable to use the same principle and therefore recommend a discount supplement as in the Haugaland package, provided that this does not significantly weaken the funding base. The majority of the Committee also considers that the final tariffs for the bombing must be determined by the Administrative and Political Steering Group, which the majority support the ministry in being set up for the project. With these comments and additions, the bulk of the population follows the local desire and the local will to be able to offer an active business and future generations a modern one in a few years' time. I think this is a historic day for Bømlo. There is good reason for us in this room to thank for our efforts locally and congratulate you on the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1517	There is no reason to thank for a new case concerning extra transport taxes – because of the lack of a government that will not use the well-filled state fund. There's no reason to lift the flag for this. This package probably means an additional bill of 177 million. kr, and that the toll ratio, starting at 64 pst, will end at 82 pst. I refer to the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter. I will not repeat the debate. I would just like to point out that, in terms of the principle of efficiency, one can look at it in this case as well. Internal traffic is free of tolls. It is good for those who do not pay, but there are others who have to pay. So if you're going out of the municipality, you get a kind of double penalty for it by paying tolls. So finally, it's gone really fast in the department too, I think, because on page 8 of the proposition, it's referenced to the Quamma package, but it was the previous case. There is a lot of paper stamping in the department as well, just as there is a short time in the proceedings in Stortinget – unfortunately.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1528	The representative Arne Sortevik has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1531	I am pleased that the Stortinget will support the proposal for partial toll financing of the Bømlo package. I am also pleased that the Stortinget in this case as well as in other cases today has made sure that it has been quick to get matters up and up to the decision in Stortinget. I would like to take advantage of the opportunity to thank you for that. In the same sentence, I want to distance myself from the claims that we are doing stamping things in the department. It is a solid and proper handling that is being done. I'm sorry that there's a typographical error in the proposition. It should not happen, but unfortunately it has happened. As the setting indicates, all parties, with the exception of the Progress Party – in this case as in the previous case – agree to follow up the decisions taken by the District of Hordaland in March this year. As the case-speaker said in a brilliant way in his review, this matter has been worked for a long time. Through the Triangle Connection, which was opened in 2001, the municipality of Bømlo has established a fixed connection with Stord and Sveio. It has been a strong traffic growth, and the road network is not adapted to today's traffic. This is a long-term issue – one that involves both repairing existing roads, building new roads, walking and cycling roads and cross-repairs. In this way, the package will provide a better response and road safety and a better local environment. There is local support for the package. Regulatory plans have been agreed for all projects to be launched in the first five years, 2009–2013. As a result of the administrative reform, the national roads at Bømlo have been reclassified to state roads since 2010. Hence, just as in the Quamma package, it has been suggested that government funds should be transferred to the project after 2009 being covered by the County Municipality of Hordaland. The county has joined. The majority of the Committee would point out that it should be possible to reach an agreement on a lower interest rate than 6,5 pst. and that a local discount rate such as in the Haugalands package, where there is a ceiling with a maximum of 75 passages per. month and hour rule. The majority refer to such a system if it does not weaken the funding base and the integrity of the package significantly. This deviation from the arrangement of the proposition, but I'm positive that one looks at whether it's possible to meet local authorities at this point. The majority also point out that lower interest rates could lead to better economic development in the project and that this could mean that individual projects could be realised more quickly. I see it as entirely natural that this will be assessed in cooperation between local authorities and the State Road Service – in practice the steering group that will be reduced. The fact that the progress party is not as satisfied with this as the other parties is not surprising. It can only be included in the dual-page communication of the Progress Party – locally and centrally – even if a local person has been asked to do so from a central point of view, and has not done what one has done in other municipalities, simply to implement toll financing. I hope people at Bømlo will benefit greatly from this package, and that the business that flourishes today will flourish even more when they get better communication.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1550	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. Eight. [[Food, see page 3815]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1567	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five lines of reply be given from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It’s to look at as affirmative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1576	Now Stortinget is dealing with the second stage of development of the E6 Gardermoen-Kolomoen project. Construction starts already in the autumn of 2009 and opening for traffic in the autumn of 2011. That's why this is a happy day. So much joy there is in this hall today! I think it's worth noting that the development of road and rail are coordinated on the route along Mjösa. At the same time, road and track expansion actually means a saving of about 400 million. kr and will also reduce the handicaps to occupants and road users along this route during the construction period. The Dal–Minnesund line is 19 km long and is located in the municipality of Eidsvoll. It includes the extension of existing two-field road to four-field road. E6 is designated as a death road. Too many accidents have occurred. E6 between Gardermoen and Lillehammer is the most dangerous road route in Norway — the one with the most fatal accidents. The development we are now dealing with will help to reduce the number of accidents. It will mean a lot to business, which will also get better visibility. For all of us road users who use the road often, the extension of E6 to a four-field road with a middle part means that we can travel on the E6 with more security. I want to take the opportunity to commend the Council of State and the Government for the good solution that has gradually been found for regulation along Mjösa. I would also like to mention that the further development of E6 from Colomoen to Lillehammer is absolutely necessary. Continuous deployment of E6 from Gardermoen to Lillehammer will mean reduced costs, but above all – and most importantly – it will mean fewer accidents. It must be an important objective of our transport policy. The progress party will probably present its view of tolls in a separate post – they still do. I just want to say that when the Progress Party both wants to cooperate with the Right and at the same time is against tolls, I see that this project and the whole E6 will never be able to be any of them. The experience from Bergen shows that the Progress Party has an extreme need for self-marking in relation to tolls. It is far enough, but that need is clearly much greater than the ability to enter into cooperation in order to solve traffic problems. It should be noticed by the voters. What I'm satisfied with is that this government implements that promise. We build the E6 continuously to ensure road safety and accessibility. But in this case, as in so many other cases, there is broad support for the Government's proposal, except for the Progress Party, which is also isolating itself here. Ah, yes, President, it will be fun to follow in the development of transport policy from the sideline over the next four years!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1597	The president's excited about the joy of escalating.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1600	What the voters should note is that we, on the part of the Progress Party, are also promoting an alternative proposal on state funding. The thing the voters should notice is that initially this stage we are dealing with in this case is at a price of NOK 2.3 billion – and it's going to be a toll ratio of 65 p.m., i.e. one and a half billion. The choice should note that the Appendix is significant. So there's an additional bill of almost NOK 1.5 billion, so the drivers have to pay a total of NOK 2.9 billion for a package that costs NOK 2.3 billion to build. It's because you're holding the well-filled state fund, you're holding the good government finances, and you're using them for other things, or you're not using them, and you're letting the drivers pay. What the voters should also notice, is that this is one of several step-by-step developments on one of our major tribal pathways, namely E6. What the voters should also notice is that the overall expansion of the project of which today's project is a bit has a price tag of SEK 4.8 billion, and that the drivers will end up paying NOK 8.5 billion. This is because the government holds a well-stocked state fund, fits in with the good government finances and ensures that they pay as much as possible for the development of the main road network, while at the same time purchasing the road for hire and therefore getting the most cost associated with it. I take up the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1607	The representative Arne Sortevik has drawn up the proposals he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1610	Just a brief comment from the Right in this matter. We support the majority position, but have nevertheless noted the unfortunate fact that one of Norway's most important roads is being developed in this way, in relatively small stages and in individual projects – as I understand it – a whole 35 individual projects. The right has taken new action in relation to major route-based corridors, and we have been involved in our alternative transport plan to organise the remaining E6 deployments through Akershus, Hedmark and Uppland as OPS projects, divided into appropriate sections and parcels. The aim must be as soon as possible to obtain a safe and modern E6, preferably four-field, and then a variant with so-called narrow four-fields, which, in our opinion, should be chosen over alternate two- and three-field solutions. That was basically the small comment I wanted to make in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1621	A brief comment also from the Christian People's Party, which supports the proposition and is in favour of the present proposal for the development and financing of E6 on the route Dal–Minnesund in Akershus and the Creator's Cross in Hedmark. The project is the second stage of project E6 Gardermoen–Kolomoen. This whole project, once completed, will provide significantly better accessibility and improve road safety on this route. E6 is the main north-south link in Norway, but the road has a highly variable standard. There is therefore a great need for a strong upgrade. Then, for the sake of order, I would like to stress that the Christian People's Party, of course, shares the view of the majority, as it appears on page 6 of the vote, stressing the need for long, coherent expansions on the main roads in Norway. By way of forgetting, we don't agree with this remark, but everyone who has joined the class knows that the Christian People's Party is very concerned with continuous expansions. Our model, with the agencies in a freer position as state enterprises and with a government loan arrangement in place, would provide considerable room for large, coherent expansions. We note that we need to have a new government constellation in place before we can achieve coherent and effective transport solutions in Norway.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1632	Finally, I will say: Yes, all experience suggests that a government consisting of the Right, Left and Christian People's Party will have a large-scale commitment to society! It's a story. I am pleased that the Stortinget today will support the proposal for partial toll financing of E6 on the Dal–Minnesund section of Akershus and the Creators’ Cross in Hedmark. As we see it, we have the same constellation as in previous cases: it is a broad term – with the exception of the Progress Party – to follow up the decisions taken by Hedmark County Municipality on 16 September 2008 and Akershu County Municipality on 23 October 2008 in this case. For the treatment of St.meld. No 24 for 2003–2004, National Transport Plan 2006–2015, the Stortinget closed to the development of the E6 Gardermoen–Colomoen road project. The E6 Dal–Minnesund line and the Creatorud crossing represent the second phase of the three phases of the E6 Gardermoen–Colomoen line, cf. n.a. St. pp. No 87 for 2006-2007, on the development and financing of E6 on the Gardermoen-Dal and Creatorud-Colomoen routes in Akershus and Hedmark. The first expansion phase of the Gardermoen–Dal and the Creatorud–Colomoen in Akershus and Hedmark is under way and is open to traffic in October 2009. There is local support for the project and the tolling facility. The governance frame is 2.3 billion in 2009 and the cost frame is 2.490 billion in 2009-krona. The collection is scheduled to start as the journey distances are opened for traffic. It has been added up to 15 years of collection in each toll station. External quality assurance of the project has been carried out. The route Dal–Minnesund is 19 km long and is located in the municipality of Eidsvoll. The extension covers the extension of existing roads from two-field to four-field. Extension of Julsrud and Minnesund bridges – a total of 850 m – and new running in the Eidsvoll tunnel – of 1200 m – are part of the project. In addition, 20 usage instructions are included, including a new bridge over Andelva and a new rest facility at Andelva. The second phase also includes the construction of the 2 km long Labbdalen-Skaberud parcel. It includes the expansion of the Creator Cross and the adjoining E6. The last pair was not ready for the first stage of deployment due to a lack of understanding about the layout of the cross. This has now been clarified and is therefore part of the second phase. It has been set up for the construction of the cottage and the opening of the traffic hall in 2011. E6 between the Gardermoen and the Colomoen are very unsafe, and measures are needed. New E6 on the Dal–Minnesund route and the couple at the Creator crossing will – together with the sections of expansion phase 1 that will be completed to the autumn, and expansion phase 3, currently estimated to be completed in 2014 – provide better visibility and security for the road users and the inhabitants of the area. The majority have a note where it is opened to allow the toll company, if necessary, to advance funds for planning, design and land use in order to facilitate the continued development of E6 northwards from Colomen to Lillehammer. Even if one has a high rate of expansion on this road, I understand – and parts – the insolence of the plural after moving on. Of course, such an application will be assessed in the best possible way if it comes. Nevertheless, it is important to note that such an advance would increase the financing cost of the toll company if one agrees. In the turbulent times we have, both nationally and internationally, it is important to keep government finances in order. Selectors should be aware of both a lot and a lot. But I think the voters should notice the Progress Party's unhindered consumption of state resources for almost all purposes, in combination with tax credits. It's important to have a well-stocked state fund, it's important to have good government finances. We see this at least now, in a time of financial crisis, when other countries have a unemployment rate that escalates day by day — while we can adopt measures that are far more powerful than the country around us has the ability to do. After a period of the Progress Party at the government, it would either be that the Progress Party had had a taboo from all promises, or it would have been the end of talking about good government finances and well-filled treasury.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1651	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1654	It was the end that led to the wish for a line. Very briefly, does the Council of State mean that when you use the state's money to build a road, is it a consumption?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1662	When we spend money building roads, it's an investment for the future. That is what Mr Sortevik and I agreed on. At the same time, they must also be taken from the same pot as a user for consumption. At the end of the day, it is about finding economic frameworks that ensure that, both in the short term and in the long term, government finances are in order and that we have the necessary balance and liberalism when necessary. That it's important, hasn't shown us at least the last year. It's worth noting, when we're in times that can be difficult for both people and business.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1667	No more words have been asked for a line. Nor has anyone asked for the word on case No. 9th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3816]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1686	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that five replies be given within the allocated speaking time after contributions from members of the Government. In addition, the President proposes that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1695	Today, we are to adopt the Trondheim environmental package. This package will provide the basis for a forward-looking, efficient and environmentally friendly transport system in the Trondheim area. The package is supported by six parties, and thus a large majority in Trondheim City Board. It aims to reduce CO2 emissions by 20 pst. by 2018. The proportion travelling environmentally friendly – walking, cycling and public transport – shall be increased to 50 pst. by 2018. Thus, the share travelling by private car shall be reduced by 50 pst. by the same time. It is regrettable that the Right Party has not been able to participate in this effort for the environment and the climate. It is important that we have brought this matter forward in the spring session of Stortinget, so that Trondheim – and the climate – will thus not wait until October to have it adopted. The proposition states that the State Road Administration believes that it will take about eight months from the decision of the Storting until the recovery can begin. When the Storting now makes its decision here today, it also means that the Government must focus on getting started as quickly as possible with the collection in step 1. The majority believe that the mid-February 2010 deadline should be considered as the last one to put this in place. The county assumes that public transport, operation and investment funds account for more than one fifth of the total environmental package, and that this is also a priority from the start of the period. That view shares the majority of the Committee. In addition to this fifth, Trondheim will also be able to obtain funding from the public transport reward scheme. Together, this will constitute a strong commitment to public transport. It is important to clarify that the means used by means of tolls or fuel charges should be added to existing appropriations. There is now a significant shift in public transport in Trondheim. For example, the phase-in of hybrid buses on line 5 will result in a 40-tonne reduction of CO2 emissions when the bus is at the stop because the engine is not running. The doubling of the reward funds notified in NTP also increases the State co-financing of environmental measures in Trondheim than foreseen. The means of reward are in addition to the incomes of the environmental package and the appropriations from the county. The majority of the Committee considers that the financial shares in operating and investing in public transport should not be reduced, even if the large investment projects included in the package are more expensive than expected. It is also important that the KS1 process focuses on identifying projects that best meet the objectives set out in the environmental package. Climate action must be based on prioritisation between the projects in both step 1 and step 2. The package also mentions a scheme for the collection of local fuel charges to be used for both operation and investment in public transport in addition to road installations. There has been a long wish in this room that there is a law that makes this possible. This is also in line with Government policy, that local authorities need to have more tools in their efforts to reduce climate emissions in the transport sector. This package contains differentiated prices in the payment sections of the package. It is a prerequisite for the country’s financial commitment that the investment scheme should have a traffic-regulating effect. The tariffs therefore have to contribute to better traffic flows, and this will include, inter alia, require higher tariffs during rush time. This is a good day for Trondheim. We're going to have a powerful community commitment that combines road upgrading with climate action and collective action.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1720	Let me start by including the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter. We are in favour of measures on national roads, but we are also in favour of the state using its well-filled box to finance those measures. I think I remember that from local conditions related to the municipal elections in 2005, there were parties, among other things. The working party, which was very clear that you did not want a new bombing in Trondheim. Now you're equally clear that you want an environmental package instead. I quote from a head of Address Paper on 24 April 2008, entitled ‘Falsified flag’: «All parties in Trondheim, with the exception of the Right and the Advance Party, will levy fees to finance investment in roads and public services. What is actually a gigantic fee package is attempted as a ‘climate settlement’, a ‘environmental tax’, tolls are called ‘point finance’. Politicians underestimate the electorate with their political novelty. The large-scale collection of funds is a very low-efficiency means of addressing the climate challenges.’» I have also noticed that, among other things. SINTEF Technology and society were somewhat skeptical as to whether the environmental objective could be achieved with the measures contained in the package. Step 1 of a multi-step package is introduced here. The next step is to facilitate by changing the laws for more fuel taxes. It's the Progress Party against it. That is why we are also promoting proposals and saying that we do not want them. Here, in this part of an overall package, there is also the introduction of a rush time charge, a kind of minirush time charge if you like. Neither will the Progress Party. In this package, it is in the same way that we have received in Oslopackack 3, opening so that part of the toll payment is used for the operation of public transport. For the time being, it's pretty unclear and quite difficult to get what this really is all about, and what is going to be used. I refer to some of the things that were related to the matter: ‘It is a requirement that the use of tolls for public transport operations should provide a real boost to the provision of collective services.’ But as late as answering questions from the committee, in a letter dated 10 June this year, it is stated that it is: ‘difficult to estimate the amount of toll revenue that will be used for public transport’.» But there's a hurry to get extra taxes started. It is urgent to get this in place as soon as possible, so that the drivers can now get a new giant bill of almost NOK 4 billion in this part of the car transport package in Trondheim. The Progress Party will have State funding for the necessary road actions and has made proposals to that effect.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1748	The representative Arne Sortevik has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1751	The right has noticed that there is broad agreement to establish an environmental package for transport in Trondheim, but there is considerable disagreement about the instruments being used. First a few words about the proceedings here in Stortinget. This is a package of new principles for the collection of road construction charges and for the operation of public transport. It had been in place with a hearing, and it had been in place with an inspection to see what the package would mean for the inhabitants of Trondheim and the neighbouring municipalities. The right is therefore highly critical of the government’s proceedings. The matter is sent to Stortinget 14 days before the end of the spring session. This testifies to an arrogance towards democracy and the Storting and does not allow for proper proceedings. The right in Trondheim was not part of the majority who supported the arrangement for the environmental package for transport. Against this background, the Right will vote against the proposed package and against the setting here today and at the same time present alternative solutions for a forward-looking environmental package for transport in Trondheim. Right does not want a local fuel charge to be imposed. Further work on this has to be stopped and all local co-financing has to be done through tolls if you want to use it. On the right, as a result of resistance to the fuel tax, the proposed toll station on the east side of the city will be in line. This is set up on a route that is not covered by the development projects in the package, and the only purpose of the bomb is to prevent people from driving to Malvik – a neighbouring municipality – to fill fuel. We also oppose the so-called rush time effect of the toll collection. So it's not called "rushtime charge" in Trondheim. It's called the noise-time effect. The rates of passage shall be differentiated in such a way that it is more expensive to run in the rush hour. This is a running-time charge – nothing else – which is strongly opposed to the right. Right wants to carry out the construction of E6 south, from Tonstad to Jakware, faster than the Government proposes, that the road be built in one coherent project such as OPS, and that one starts northwards and goes southwards. In the package from Trondheim municipality, it is scheduled to be built in three stages, with the ends first and the middle at the end – i.e. a repetition of what we have just discussed along Mjösa: start at each end, take a break and take the middle at the end. Fortunately, the government writes some wise words about this in the setting: ‘If the consequences of the priorities of the Presidency and the county selection are shown, there is no room to deploy the E6 Jakware-Tonstad as part of the environmental package, then there is reason to ask questions as to whether it is appropriate to collect tolls in the toll section of the Rock. Without a bet on the development of the E6 Jakware – Tonstad that it has been put up for in St.meld. No 16 National Transport Plan 2010-2019, there will be no good link between payment and benefits for road users passing this toll station. [[2008-2009]] It would therefore be natural to return to the concrete priorities of the national road project in the preparation of the national road action programme in stage 2 of the environmental package.’ The right fully agrees with the Government in this and will demonstrate that the deployment of E6 is a high priority project in the Right Alternative to the National Transport Plan. We refer to our comments relating to corridor 6, where the Right wishes the route E6 Trondheim – Uppland border to be organised as a OPS project and to be extended to appropriate parcels. In this context, we would point out that it is natural to start developing the Tonstad-Jaktøyen project, which is essential for a good transport offer in and out of Trondheim from the south. Right-wing promotion in NTP proposals to both set aside a separate pot of DKK 3 billion for the urban runway/collective traverser and to escalate the reward scheme to DKK 1 billion during the planning period. This could contribute to reducing the share of car drivers in funding and, accordingly, to increasing the State share of financing of the environmental package for transport in Trondheim. Trondheim needs an environmental package for transport, but the right will not support the instruments of the proposed proposal. In the Right’s view, fuel taxes and rush time taxes are new forms of taxation, which should be avoided. Thinning people who depend on a car at work seems a little motivating for more environmentally friendly behaviour. I hope the Trondheim package will show that only to bet on negative instruments – whip instead of carrot – will be misguided policies. Just so sorry that the inhabitants of and around Trondheim must be test rabbits for a red-green transport experiment!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1782	Let me start by replicating to the Right when it comes to the democratic aspect, that it has actually been a very great commitment from Trondheim's populace to run this case through before the summer, so that they could get on with the important environmental work. It's actually the local democratic initiative that makes us listen to it and now add up to this implementation. It should also be of interest to Right when they may be in government – listen to local democracy, as this government does. I want to congratulate Trondheim on a great initiative. To have a 20 pst target. greenhouse gas emission reduction before 2018 thought I was brilliant! It costs, and then you have to do some bad things. I just want to say that it is important that a priority should be given to what has a climate effect first, as the case-speaker pointed out. I think it's essential if you're going to get to the goal of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 20 pst. It's very positive that 50 pst. of the environmental package goes to environmental projects, public transport and pedestrian and cycle roads. There are such priorities in SV that we want from several cities. We're looking forward to seeing the reactions in other cities in Norway to what Trondheim is doing now, whether it will have an effect, for example. for my own area, the North Year, where one also works with similar packages as the package that we adopt here today. Finally, the right is in the climate agreement, but the party does not see through its proposals how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. So they're moving away from the climate deal by saying yes to more roads, but not telling how to bring down greenhouse gas emissions. Then it's strange, I don't think the right is in the NHO, the lorry owners, and others, who think one must have traffic regulation, especially in the Rushtida. So the business community is asking us for regulations that will make the transport of goods easier, they can make more money, and that's good for the climate. Right only says yes to everything, and then they say nothing about how to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, to which they have committed themselves in the climate agreement. So, what are the measures that the Right has to reduce car traffic? So that's a little bit of a question. But it has Erna Solberg signed on, and one gets to assume that Right will soon come up with some suggestions, and show them how to bring down greenhouse gas emissions – not just talk about it. A little visit to the Progress Party and their constant toll harpsichord. We know the situation in Oslo, so I'm not going to repeat it. Siv Jensen's local team has asked us to give tolls for the operation of public transport. It's a wise suggestion that Stortinget has made. Then, too, Arne Sortevik and the Progress Party have voted in several budgets for one to take in 14.5 billion kroner of the billistrat, when they ran the country together with Bondevik II. They've forgotten when they're standing here today and trying to hand out money from the Treasury. When they were in position, they didn't take away a billion. So they voted for the car list to pay $14.5 billion in tolls. So this is life -- it's not always as easy when it comes to reality. Air money can be used easily, as the Progress Party is currently doing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1797	The Christian People's Party will give praise to the politicians in Trondheim Municipality and the South-Trundellag County Municipality for having put in place an offensive and forward-looking package and a set-up with a clear environmental profile. The neighbouring municipalities of Trondheim have also agreed in principle that this environmental package will be established. There is now a transformation of public transport in Trondheim. It is gratifying that the increase in the reward scheme, resulting from the climate agreement, will contribute to further strengthening public transport in Trondheim. Trondheim is one of several examples of the positive effect of an increased reward scheme. One can discuss whether Storting should get this kind of case to deal with just before the end of the period. It is on the brink of soundness. But I still want to say that for the sake of the processes that have been local, and for the sake of the progress of the project, it is good that the ministry has made sure that this matter is dealt with now. It would be unnecessary if Stortinget were to help delay this. The Christian People's Party locally was part of the political majority who supported the arrangement for the environmental package for transport in Trondheim. Yes, the Christian People's Party has been a proponent to get this through, and then, of course, the Christian People's Party centrally supports the proposition.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1808	This is a major environmental package in the big city of pleasant Trøndelag. As far as I'm concerned, the name Trond means "well," so Trondheim is such a pleasant city. No matter how keen you may be, the traffic growth, increasing environmental problems and noise will reduce well-being. Not only that – when driving cars, public transport is also going on later. It's going to be a vicious circle with periodically bad appearances, and this seems home to business and trading. We, as part of the region, know that something needs to be done. But sometimes it may not seem like political suicide, but at least as political self-preservation to implement effective traffic regulation measures. Therefore, I would like to commend the municipality of Trondheim for a bold work that hopefully will solve many of the traffic and environmental problems in the city. I would particularly like to point out the plans they have for a whole bicycle road network, which is a grip that will lead to fewer cars, better air and not least more fresh air to all those who can catch the bike. Although everyone may be a few in that different charges may be exasperating to pay, I am however overconfident that this package collection will contribute strongly to Trondheim's future being a pleasant city.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1821	I would first like to thank the rapporteur for a thorough review. Both locally and centrally, the left has been a driver of this environmental and transport package in Trondheim. Among other things Odd Einar Dørum went out in the last election campaign and thought Trondheim needed an Oslopackak 3. I know that there have been some hard debates in the city council, but more and more parties gradually realized that a toll solution was the only way to solve the major challenges that Trondheim faced. The cars were simply about to take a suffocating roof in the middle of town. In addition, the Ministry has been clear and used the reward scheme as a bait — and that’s good. The left local is very satisfied with this setting. Despite the fact that I share the Right's criticism that the committee has gone a little quickly, I know that many locally are very pleased that they can now get started, and it's urgent! With regard to the tariffs in the bombing, as Akershus' representative, I am not very impressed, and I am a little surprised that the Ministry of Transport on its website shows a very large degree of enthusiasm. But I'm going to let it lie down and rejoice that Trondheim is now getting momentum on the environmental and promotion challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1834	The environment package for transport in Trondheim contains a number of measures such as: has the objective of reducing CO2 emissions by 20 pst. by 2018, increase the proportion travelling by environmentally friendly transport and reduce travel by private car. To achieve these objectives, a number of measures are being taken. It is a priority to continue the development of a main road network, including: shall relieve traffic around the central urban areas. I point out that the environmental package will provide better visibility, road safety and better local environment. The financing of the environmental package is based on the collection of tolls, on government, county and municipal funds. Any user payment in the form of a local fuel bill must be returned to the Government in connection with step 2 of the environmental package, as there is currently no legal basis for putting this into use. Trondheim Municipality and South-Trundellag County wants to be able to start the construction of the highest priority road and collective projects in the package as soon as possible. They have therefore asked to present the environmental package in two stages, with the first stage of the package containing measures and instruments as per. today is clarified in relation to the legal and financial framework. The purpose of step 1 is to facilitate the introduction of a road contract in Trondheim based on local decisions. Step 2 will contain a holistic plan and final priorities of projects and actions in the environmental package, which have also been assessed for land use. As the package is presented in two steps, it is naturally not a complete presentation of the package in the proposition that is now being handled. We have to get back to this in the same way that we did when handling Oslopackak 3. The Ministry, in line with the local proposals, is in favour of a set of time-differentiated tariffs as part of the funding base for the environmental package for transport in Trondheim. Such a scheme will make the road users who charge the most for the road system have to pay the most. This gives the fairest distribution of the charges and has a certain traffic-regulating effect. Finally, I would like to stress that there is every reason to commend the local authorities for a forward-looking and environmentally friendly package that has come about based on an agreement between six parties in the city council at Trondheim. And thank you to the Committee for a quick way to deal with this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1851	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1854	To the very last point, does the Council of State consider that the Committee has had time for a proper procedure? This is the last case we deal with in the Stortinges hall attached to such a package. We started four years ago with the Bergen program as one of the first issues, where it was a comprehensive treatment. Among other things, there was an inspection on the transport committee's first trip, and there was a local hearing on the matter in Bergen. There was also a local majority, but there was also – probably for the benefit of the case – an opportunity for thorough treatment and, in fact, an on-site inspection to get involved in such a comprehensive toll package, which we are now seeing again in this package in Trondheim, which runs fast and fast in the course of a few weeks in the committee. Have there been proper proceedings?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1859	My part of this work is to have a defensive handling and provide a defence basis for the Storting. So it's the Storting and the Committee, with the committee leader at the head, who decides how to deal with the different issues. I don't want to in any way criticize the size of their handling. I am pleased that you have chosen to handle this matter quickly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1864	It is difficult to criticise the Council of State for its consideration in the Committee. But when the chairman of the committee is mentioned, the chairman of the committee, together with the rest of the representatives of the Progress Party and the Right, has written a protocol which we asked for this matter to be postponed, after it had been voted down in committee. It is up to Stortingen to assess whether the procedure has been satisfactory. I believe it has not been in any way. What is one of our problems in dealing with this package now is the introduction of new principles. There is a fuel tax – ok, one has had it in Tromsø – but here you will have tolls, fuel tax and so-called rush time effect. The Council of State stated that it means differentiated tariffs in the tolling. In the opinion of the Council of State, is the intoxication effect the same as the amount of drug use tax?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1871	What has been presented here is a package where a differentiated collection has been added. Not from the people who have sewn this package, used the word rush time tax, but one has differentiated the rates on the way. I can't put similarities between them, but that's not the point either. The point is to achieve both the goals of fewer cars and the goals of reducing greenhouse gas emissions, and as a result, a certain traffic-regulating effect of this is expected.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1876	The debate on Oslopackak 3 raised a problem about the climate agreement and the reward scheme. The climate agreement states that binding agreements on measures to reduce road traffic are a prerequisite. Does the Oslopacket 3 and Trondheimspakket see as binding agreements to reduce car traffic?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1883	No, this is not a binding agreement to reduce car traffic. These are packages that, at some points, will reduce car traffic, but where there are also elements of road development that will have the opposite effect. Nevertheless, for the package we are dealing with today, it is a premise that a strong reduction in CO2 emissions occurs. For Oslopackakt 3, we know from the KS statements that the desired decline in greenhouse gas emissions may not be so great. In the case of compulsory contracts, they will be concluded directly between the individual city and country in the form of contracts to be signed and have specific measures. Here we have a combination of measures that reduce greenhouse gas emissions and increase collective emissions, but there are also a number of other measures within the package.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1893	Several from the parliamentary basis of the Council of State in Stortinget have argued that local democracy wants this. Governments belong to a party that in at least the old days was occupied by local democracy. The situation is that at the last local elections in 2007, the vote was approximately. 80-85 pst. by the voters in Trondheim on a lot that was opposed to bombing, against fuel tax and against rush time tax – i.e. 80-85 pst. the voters voted against all these measures and against lots opposing those measures. Does the Council of State think that today's voting is a support and a honour and an honor for the Norwegian local democracy, or is there any reason to say that local democracy has led the voters behind the light of this matter?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1900	As a government council, I stick to the decisions made by the elected representatives locally, unlike what we see The Progress Party is doing in this Chamber in many cases, at least those who are going on toll financing, where a local has wished for it. Therefore, I believe this matter is absolutely in line with local democracy and with good local democratic traditions, that one makes local decisions that are being followed up centrally. So it will always be so that the decisions that are made locally are based on different intentions. I don't have the ability to go in and look at the basis for them – it must be done by the individual batch. There will be a lot of communication with the voters who will decide if they feel they are being cared for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1907	As this becomes my last line to the Council of State during this great period and in this area, it would have been nice to get an answer to what I asked questions about instead. I am fully aware that the politicians in Trondheim have defined this as a so-called rush-time effect. But what I wanted to know – as the Council of State has worked a lot with these things – was whether she could see any difference between what is otherwise referred to as a rush-time charge, and what is now referred to as a rush-time effect. Is that the exact same arrangement, or is there any difference between it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1912	There are some differences, but we don't have that much experience in the matter of the charge. That is why there are some differences in this system that we have traditionally called a rush-time charge. So I choose to stick to what you have used locally, and which is used in the setting, namely that this is a toll that has a rush time effect. It should hold both for me and for the representative of Helleland. Otherwise there have been many good questions from the representative of Greece in the rounds. I hope that he will have received an answer to some of them as well.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1920	The cord shift is over. The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1925	First, I would like to comment on Mr Langeland's comments. He claimed that there has been a great deal of pressure from the people elected in Trondheim to get this case pressed through before the summer. Had I represented the red-greens, I would have done exactly the same thing – to say it like this: It's not exactly some kiosks to go out in the election campaign and force on the drums both fuel tax, rush time tax and new bombs around Trondheim. The right follows up Trondheim Right's demands on the city council. We say no to the fuel tax, we say no to the rush time charge, and we say no to the new bomb at Weather. Right, we keep what we promise. The right-hand side says a clear no to the rush-time charge. Trondheim's residents also believed for a long time that the Workers' Party would say no to the curfew fee, and they believed this from Rita Ottervik and Jens Stoltenberg's promises in the election campaign. Both Ottervik and Stoltenberg then said no to the rush time charge. That is why, today, an election vow is breaking, and we are witnessing enough a breach of promises. For Trondheim’s population, the fuel tax will come to the top of all other taxes that drivers will have to pay. A large part of the drivers will fill fuel outside the city to charge the fee. The bomb at Väre near Malvik is established only to prevent that leakage and provides no new roads to those passing the bomb. In the opinion of the Court, these additional charges are new forms of taxation, which should be avoided. People who have no choice and have to use the car for the job are the ones who are hardest hit by this. Often there are families with children, families with small children who have to deliver in kindergarten, and who may have to drive through town to get to work. The right says yes to the faster deployment of E6 from Tonstad to Jakkocken, and we say yes to larger government appropriations for road and environmental projects in Trondheim. The development of E6 is a high priority project for the Right. Right wants to extend the entire E6 from Trondheim to the Uppland border and organise it as a OPS project. The drones themselves have experienced how successful an organization like this is. Right, it doesn't make sense to build E6 southwards from Tonstad in three stages, with the center first and the ends finally. For the right, greater road betting goes hand in hand with an environmental and public transport effort. That is why we have also proposed stepping up the reward scheme for the big cities, from just over 300 million today. kr per. years to DKK 1 billion per year. years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1938	You'll hear a lot in this room. It is a historic day, said the rapporteur. Yeah, at least it's a historically unsolvable decision we're making today. I don't know the transport debate as well as the transport committee does, but I know Trondheim the better. So once in Trondheim, all the bus routes go straight in and straight out of town. If you're as unhappy as many people are, having little children in a kindergarten that's not on the axis that happens to go into town, you're dependent on a car. These people have no choice, and they are the ones that go the hardest way out. It's not all these people who serve as well as the staging representatives do, and thus they get a more difficult everyday life. So back to my question to the Council of State. Thus, in 2007, a significant majority of the parties in Trondheim went to the elections on ‘resistance to anti-busy time charges’. I'm a layman, I'm not a member of the Transport and Communication Committee, so I have to say I'm a little confused by these terms. However, I do not think the voters understand the difference between a drug-use-time charge and a drug-use-effect charge and between a bombing and a bombing point with some kind of effect. The fuel charge is much clearer. Then I just want to join the previous speaker. It is clear that the majority of the City Council in Trondheim will have this matter dealt with in Stortinget before the elections, in order to have this tax burden as a theme in the election campaign, I fully understand that the Workers' Party does not want to. That's where I think the Council of State is about something important. She said that this is in a good historical tradition. Yes, it's that the Workers' Party says something when there's a choice, and then they do the very opposite when they come to power. As you can see, this is in an excellent historical tradition. I understand that the Labour Party does not want to take this debate in the election campaign. Then there's a lot of people who talked about the queues. Now there are some cows outside Trondheim, but the big queues in Trondheim are created by the same majority who have closed most of the roads, almost with the aim of creating more queues. Then you can go to the Stortinget and say, look how many cows we have in Trondheim, and then you're allowed to impose all kinds of charges on your own people. That's because local democracy in Trondheim, even by the majority, all the parties outside the Progress Party and the Right, has chosen to close almost half of the exit capacity from Trondheim Center. Then, for 10–15–20 years, the same local politicians have been talking about outsourcing the bus service. If we look at the bus offer in Oslo, at what has been done here with more frequent departures, and how much better the bus offer has been because of competitive outsourcing – the politicians in Trondheim have for years been denying it. Now they're subsidizing a tram that's over twice as expensive as the bus. That's what they spend their money on. I was then very concerned when we decided today to introduce a whole bunch of fees without knowing what the money should actually go to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1953	It was interesting that the previous representative wanted to see Oslo. Here we have just used the revenue from the payment cuts, which I think they call it, to finance public transport. That package is the Progress Party in the driver's seat, and they have applied to the Ministry of Transport for permission to set up a toll, and then they can use the money to operate their public transport and to invest in public transport. But if a traveler goes to Trondheim, this is basically wrong. The Progress Party does not believe in the climate agreement. They also do not believe in the climate challenges, so it may not be so strange that they saw the need to put in place a climate package. I would like to commend the politicians in Trondheim who managed, just four months after the climate agreement at Stortinget, to put this climate package in place for the city. There is no doubt that they have also seen the same challenges as they saw in the Storting, and wanted to do something local about it. I say again, it is regrettable that the Right does not want to be part of this climate virtue. So to the Right's claim about irresponsible proceedings. It becomes a little strange when the representative Halleraker is standing on this platform and congratulates Stortinget and Bømlo on the day in the case of a package that had a similar treatment period. As long as the right was for the road bet, it was probably okay with a short processing time. Then it'll be a little bit of a principle. It's obvious that this is rhetoric on the right. Linda C. Hofstad Helleland would rather have OPS than a bomb. Then I wonder if this is a fully state-funded OPS project. Is this a new OPS project where there shall be no toll revenue? I also ask the voters to note the right camouflage of tolls with OPS. I think the Right should be honest and say that when they say OPS, they mean toll projects. This is a good, comprehensive package for Trondheim, which invests in public transport. They shall establish a comprehensive pedestrian and cycle network, bet on road safety and combat noise. They shall also reduce CO2 emissions by 20 pst. This is absolutely good! At the end of the day, I just want to say that Jens Stoltenberg has promised that the state will never force Norwegian municipalities to impose a rush-time charge. He hasn't. Here it has been a wish of a large local majority of six parties to introduce a rush-time effect, and that's what Stortinget says.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1971	There's a lot of ways to drive extortion. This government has grown the extortion agent to the nearest perfection. There is also a difference between the Quamma package and the Bømlo package in relation to the Trondheim package, which is much more comprehensive and much more complex. That is why I think the comparison with the Bergen programme is much more relevant, and there was time for a much wider and much more thorough treatment. This is the broken promise package. It is the package of broken promises, where the lifting breaks are camouflaged in new language, where tolls are replaced by environmental taxes. This is a tax package with extra tax in general, with a rush-time charge, with a charge in both directions, which we also do not have time to problematize, and with the use of tolls for collective farming. In this part of the package, which we are dealing with here today, and which is approved by the majority, the car will be presented with a view of 3 900 million. kr in tolls. It would have been reasonable to get an estimate of how much of the money is going to be spent on the operation of public transport, but we don't get that. So a completely different thing eventually. For my part, too, the last issue with the Council of State, the last debate with the Minister of Transport, which should be commended for its commitment and strong focus on transport. We quite disagree whether that commitment and focus has given Norway good transport policy. In any case, it has given the drivers a lot of extra calculations. The promise made in the National Transport Plan, which we dealt with last week, is a promise of even more tolls.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1989	I remember the beginning of this great period when a newly elected, young and enthusiastic representative from Oslo, Truls Wickholm, went in for a broad consultation on the Bergen programme. We even had a hearing on the case in Bergen at a public meeting, where several hundred people were present and had the opportunity to ask the committee to the wall, ask questions and make contributions. Then time goes by, and the representative slips in the fold, and in two weeks we're going to deal with a package that concerns Trondheim, which is more comprehensive in terms of the use of new instruments, and which has a completely different device in terms of fuel taxes, anti-wrestler charges and other instruments. So to the representatives Wickholm and Langeland: No, right camouflage not what we mean. I said in my post that the Right Local and Right Central have opened up toll receipts related to the environmental transport package in Trondheim. So, honestly, we're saying what we mean. But we want to vote against this package, not because it has been a short time for the Stortinge case, but because there are new principles for taxing the drivers. And as the representative Lien pointed out, there is no bus offer in Trondheim that can catch up with the problems that are now happening to the drivers. For those who drive into Trondheim past Lerkendal, etc., where it used to be a collective field, there is an eternal struggle to get into town. It is now calculated an hour from Klebu and into Trondheim this morning – an increase of half an hour. And so there's no bus offer that's adapted to the towns and alleys in the neighbouring municipalities of Trondheim. I thought Trondheim was going to be a city that is open to commuting, and that depends on it. But this is the challenge of the city council in Trondheim. Our challenge in the Biggest is to take into account the principles to be applied. That is why the Right has considered that the processing time and the handling of this matter are too poor, because it is quite right, as the representative Sortevik says, even though I disagree with the use of tolls in the various packages, that there are dozens of goods. We have had some thirty and thirty such toll proposals for treatment in the Storting earlier in this period. But this is the first package that contains new elements, such as a rush time fee, and a fuel tax. These are completely new elements that the Storing will be thrown at and that will be decided in one week's proceedings in the Committee. It's too bad.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e1998	It is nice to be referred to as young and promising – or what the representative of Greece said. But my criticism of Right and Linda Helleland's argument was that you say you don't want to be in the rush rate. You don't want to be in this arrangement, because it's an introduction of an extra tax and an unfair tax for Trondheim's inhabitants. Then Trond Helleland also goes up to the pulpit and says that the Right is for toll collection, that it's totally okay, and that this is part of an OPS project. Then it becomes a little confusing for us who sit in the hall, I think, and perhaps also for the voters, to see what the Right really means. Is toll collection unsocial tax, or is it an entirely accepted part of road projects and OPS projects, for which the Right is? In the case of treatment, the Stortinget also treated Oslopackak 3 in two steps. In Step 1, we introduced a new principle that revenues from tolling could be used to operate public transport. There was one case that had approached the same length of treatment in Stortinget, because it was then important also for the Right to put this package in Oslo. But when the Right is against the package, it is basically wrong to do things quickly to solve things locally. The fuel tax is not currently being processed. It will come back to us in phase 2, and then the Stortinget will also have ample opportunity to discuss how it will be done, what it might mean for Trondheim's citizens, and also as a principle of transportation in the rest of the country.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2007	I think the little unethnicity that is in the Helleland family is being cleaned up. It didn't sound very serious. But it's more serious what Right now has come up, because that's what I'm going to characterize as a breach of promise. Erna Solberg has simply signed that if you're going to get money from the reward scheme, you're going to have to reduce car traffic in the cities. Erna Solberg has sent that signal to Trondheim City Council and to the City Council. It's been sent around Norway. Trondheim responds to that signal from the Right, but the Right says, no, we won't be on it. So the right hand side doesn't answer what to do to reduce car traffic. What should a person do with the traffic graphics in Trondheim to reduce greenhouse gas emissions? That doesn't answer right. And then it's a violation of what's in the climate agreement. The score is not what they mean locally in the different games. For many years, we have believed it would work. It works in Stockholm, and it works in London. The time has expired, and the leechers have ended in SV. NHO is now for this after many years, because they see that it's tricked. They see that there is less greenhouse gas emissions, and they see that traffic is slipping better, and that business is making money. The right and right sides do not have the answer to the question about how to bring down the queues. They only spend money on asphalt and hope it solves itself. No, I mean that right here has an explanation problem. So every time they're in power, the party of progress is running, so it's Arne Sortevik, Per Sandberg and Siv Jensen, and it's going to vote to cut the car list by 14.5 billion kroner. They've done it several times when they've had power, no questions about removing the tolls. In fact, the Progress Party left them standing. One might doubt the will of the Advance Party in these matters and in the toll problem, when one in position does not remove a bomb at all, but let them happily accept the money from the Billistan. It's very good that Trondheim now gets this environmental package. I think several cities are going to copy what Trondheim does, because I think several cities will be busy doing what's good for the climate, which is good for business, and which is good for most people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2016	Trond Helleland has had the word twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2019	I can reassure the climate camaraderie Langeland that the Right is still standing at the climate deal at all points, including the point that one can impose a rush time charge ‘or other traffic regulation measures’. That is why the Right – and here the Helleland family have agreed – have gone in order for one to introduce toll points in Trondheim. But what we're going against is the Toll Station at Vere, in front of Malvik Municipality, which has nothing to do with the construction of new roads, but will only prevent people from driving to the neighbouring municipality to fill gasoline there. This package is being opposed to the right by the introduction of new principles. We want a good development of the environment and transport in Trondheim. We believe that – I also pointed out in my article – can be done in other ways and by stimulating, using carrots instead of only whips, for which the representative Langeland has made himself a spokesman.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2027	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 10th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3816]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2045	Then we're going to move a little bit away from the asphalt and onto the more soft values. The thing that we have to deal with is two things. One is the roof stop for doctors, psychologists and physiotherapists themselves. The second case is an order authorisation for the pre-pandemic vaccine. In the case of a doctor's roof stop, there is something you have to come back to since the negotiations have not been concluded. In this respect, I would just like to refer to a unanimous comitology in the vote. That's what it says. ‘The Committee supports the proposal to grant a power of attorney to which it is proposed, but on the clear assumption that there will not be an increase in the self-payment of patients beyond the 5 % already adopted in the context of the treatment of the 2009 State budget’. All lots except the Advance Party participated in a 5 pst partial. The reason why I take the floor in this case is linked to the pre-pandemic vaccine. As most people have probably come with it, on 11 June the WHO declared a pandemic phase 6. In this context, Norway has committed itself to buying vaccines, so that the proposal contained in the proposal for a pre-pandemic vaccine falls away. I have therefore made a proposal that we give an order authorisation to the Ministry of Health and Welfare under the heading. 710, Item 21 Special operating expenses. It's a power of attorney of 830 million. NOK, so you can get a vaccine. There are 9.4 million user doses in the contract work. It is also set out in the Committee's opinion and shows that the Committee had already taken this into account in its decision. With this, I am promoting the distributed proposal for an order authorisation of 830 million. kr, so that the government has the tool to do the job beyond the fall, without having to return to the Stortinget. I hope that's enough for the Government, so that we now get these things in place – for the benefit of the Norwegian people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2063	The representative Harald T. Nesvik has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2066	I would just like to say very briefly that the proposal that has now been put forward is in line with the change that the WHO has made. For the sake of order, I would like to state that the parties to the Government will vote in favour of the proposal, so that this becomes right. I'm assuming that a total accumulation is also going to do that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2073	I think it is desirable and necessary for me in this context to say a few words about the situation with regard to influenza A. [[H1N1]] As the Committee’s chairman was also concerned, on 11 June the World Health Organisation, WHO, raised the level of preparedness for phase 6 in the development of the new influenza epidemic. This means that the world has experienced the first flu pandemic since 1968. For the first time in history, however, we are not taken to bed, but, unlike previous pandemics, we have had the opportunity to prepare. The WHO decision to raise the level of preparedness is based on reports from around the world. The latest up-to-date figures from the WHO show that it is so far, per year. 15 June, infected persons are registered in 76 countries with nearly 36 000 confirmed infections, including 163 deaths. Nearly 2,400 infections have been confirmed in the EU and EFTA countries, and the first deaths were reported from Scotland on 14 June. Based on available information, the WHO and Norwegian health authorities also assess the severity of this pandemic to be moderate. The overwhelming majority of infected people have experienced mild symptoms and quickly become completely healthy, often without the need for medical treatment. It's common for viruses to evolve over time. Therefore, the authorities are concerned about getting more knowledge of how this new virus may develop and are prepared to make the picture more serious than it is today. When I attended the World Health Assembly for a while back, it was not least this danger that the virus is not stable and can change, which was stressed very strongly, not least from WHO's Secretary-General, Dr. Chan. In St. prp. No 86 for 2008-2009, Norway has committed itself to buying 9.4 million vaccine doses at an estimated total price of 650 million. kr if the WHO declares phase 6 pandemic further that the new pre-pandemic vaccine agreement will be set aside if the manufacturer starts the production of the pandemic vaccine after the pandemic phase 6 has been declared. With the WHO declaration of phase 6, the premise for proposals for decisions is in St.prp. No 86 for 2008-2009 related to pre-pandemic vaccines, thus changing and triggering the need for an authorisation to order 9,4 million doses of pandemic vaccines within a framework of 650 million. kr. I am pleased that the Stortinget has now taken care of this in the treatment of the cancellation today – that it is likely that the Stortinget can do so. The first delivery of a pandemic vaccine will be available at least three to four months after the start of production, which is expected to take place at the beginning of July. The Institute for Public Health is preparing for the vaccination of the population according to the plans for vaccination by a pandemic. So finally just a few words about the roof stop for doctors, psychologists and physiotherapists. We negotiate with the Norwegian Medical Association, Norwegian Psychological Association and Norwegian Physiotherapy Association on economic conditions, etc. There is now agreement with the Psychological Association and the Physiotherapeutic Association on the conditions for the next period, while the negotiations with the doctors are still ongoing.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2092	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 11th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3817]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2109	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2118	Inner. S. No 296 concerns a proposal by the depositors Gunvald Ludvigsen and Trine Skei Grande on the suspension of the Privacy Commission, the establishment of the core file and the protection of sensitive data. The document promotes a total of seven proposals. Proposal I is the provision of sensitive personal data, so that they are not communicated by health professionals to patients in the presence of unauthorised persons, including a revision of the hospital medical profession. Proposal II concerns the pseudonymisation of individualising characteristics of electronic patient records. In proposal III, the proposers ask the Government to explain the real need for access to postal records across health businesses. Proposal IV applies to patients with a right of access to the patient record. Proposal V concerns the establishment of a moratorium on the establishment of new health records until today’s registers have been reviewed. Proposal VI concerns the establishment of an electronic core file, where individual consents to the storage of vital information is pseudonymised and encrypted. Proposal VII concerns training and awareness-raising measures to ensure respect for professional secrecy. In the Committee's comments, the majority of the Committee, from the Party of Advancement, Right, SV, Christian People's Party and Left, refers to the Commission's quotations. This quote is linked to the Health Research Act adopted on 20 June 2008: ‘The Human Rights Commission has observed that parts of the legislative proposal have been the subject of criticism and discussion by the hearing bodies and the professional community. This applies, inter alia, to the use of so-called broad consents, i.e. consents covering one or more general research purposes and fields of research, without specifying the individual details requested.’;» The majority have an additional quote from the Privacy Commission: ‘Another part of the criticism of the law relates to a weakening of privacy by not fully exploiting the possibilities for de-identification. In the view of the Privacy Commission, a similar criticism can also be addressed to other central health records, such as Norwegian Patient Register, where the legislator has recently shown a tendency to opt out of pseudonymisation as privacy promotion.’ Proposal I, that new procedures be established to ensure that sensitive health information is not communicated in the hearing of others, is supported by an overall committee. A majority consisting of the Workers' Party, the Centre Party and the Progress Party are opposed to proposal II, where the Stortinget asks the Government to develop the standard for electronic postal records, so that individualising characteristics of simple operations can be replaced by generated pseudonyms. As far as proposal III is concerned, the majority, all parties minus the Workers' Party and the Centre, believe that the Government should present a large-scale report outlining the real need for access to patient records across the board. Proposal IV, on access to patient logs, has supported all batches during the treatment of Ot.prp. No 51. The proposal has thus been taken care of. Proposal V, on moratorium against new health records, is supported by a minority consisting of Right, SV, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal VI, establishing an electronic core file, is supported by a minority consisting of Right, SV, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal VII, the organisation of training and awareness-raising activities to ensure professional secrecy, is supported by the entire Committee. This means, therefore, that on several points the proposers have either received a majority in the Committee or also the entire Committee. Then I want to add to the minute I have left, that I experienced this morning in a discussion on the news channel on TV 2, with the overall responsibility of the National Telemedicine Centre, that the concept of privacy is now clearly given a whole new content. For that person, it argued that privacy also means that the interests of the patient in relation to proper treatment are being taken into account in a different way than in the past. I have also noted that, in correspondence with the Committee on the subject, the Minister for Health has introduced a new concept, namely ‘patient protection’. I see that in that way, with that kind of novelty, a kind of confusion arises about what privacy really is. I would therefore like to quote from Wikipedia in terms of the term: «Personal protection is the protection of the personal individual, but may have a different meaning depending on the context. Two common ways of looking at the concept is to see the concept of a technical and a social context. The technical point of view is to check information about yourself and what it is used for. The social interpretation is about everyone having a need to be alone.’ It is therefore in this context that the majority and the minority in the Committee have stressed the importance of privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2172	Would the representative Olav Gunnar Ballo like to address the proposals No. 1, 2 and 3 from the minority?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2175	Yes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2180	The representative of Olav Gunnar Ballo has then addressed the proposals to which it refers.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2183	This case testifies to the commitment of the Health and Care Committee to improving patient treatment and privacy to go hand in hand. There are, of course, two joint committee proposals and one of the proposals contained in the proposal for a representative is considered to be taken care of. I want to spend my time commenting on a couple of issues that I think are important in the proposal for a representative. One concerns the moratorium proposed and supported by a minority in the Committee on Health Records. The view expressed in the proposal for a representative, that health records do not save lives, and that none of our health records are used for treatment, surprises me. Last time Left claimed a similar view, the Left’s Storing Group received a letter from the Kreftregistert where the Cancer Register, among others. As a result of their review of the treatment of endometrial cancer and colon cancer in Norway, the number of relapses was reduced from 28 pst. to 9 pst. – approx. 200 people per year were rescued from rectal cancer/endometrial cancer. Similar reviews are carried out in other areas by the Cancer Register, and it bears witness to a somewhat frightening lack of transparency in what is proposed, when you do not get into the letters you receive, and take them into account in your argument. Another relevant issue in relation to this moratorium will be the development of a new national cardiovascular registry. We have discussed here at Stortinget how the treatment of stroke patients is very different in Norway – 15 p.m. receive thrombolysis, i.e. blood-closing medical treatment, in the Haukeland business area, while on average only 1 pst. receive it on a national basis. The hospital in Fredrikstad provides more such advanced treatment, much more than the Ullevål University Hospital. has been able to do so in the same time period since it was introduced, so there are major differences. This applies to 15,000 patients a year — only the stroke patients, and many others have different cardiovascular diseases. It's obvious that such a health record in the cardiovascular area, if we got the same quality of it as the Cancer Register, would mean a lot to save lives and get the opportunity to treat these patients better. So it's alarming, I think, that a minority can jump on a proposal on moratorium in this way. I would like to say that other health records and quality records that you work with in the professional environments, for example. in the context of neurological diseases such as Alzheimer’s, ALS, MS, Parkinson’s, it will also be very important to look at this on the Stortinget, in order to improve the quality of such vulnerable disease areas as this. The same applies to musculoskeletal disorders, where we lack quality in parts of the treatment, and it is also important to obtain more sub-registrations, treatment records, in connection with cancer. It's a paradox that one has the impression that one there could open up to it, and if the minority is for more quality records in the context of cancer, it's hard to see the fundamental difference by entering these other registers. I think that the majority refer to in the vote, namely that the Council of State and the Ministry have set up a national project, which started in 2008, to ensure quality and privacy in health records, is a much better way to go. Rapid conclusions on these demanding issues should not be promoted. This also applies to national nuclear records. A single committee is for a national core file, but the majority does not agree to conclude now that it should be consent-based, pseudonymised, encrypted, etc. We think we need an investigation of that, an overview of what, among other things. national core file shall be included. Also, the proposal, which one jumps on well quickly, about the pseudonymisation of e-mails, which the minority promote, seems a little bit low-quality. When asked how the Ministry of Health views that proposal, the Ministry of Health responds in a letter to the Committee that it does not seem to them to make sense, because there are rules for exemption from public disclosure, rules for non-public mail to be derived from e-mail lists, etc., and you do not understand how encryption or pseudonymisation should work in relation to it for the e-mail system. There is nothing said by the proposers about how you think it is, and there is very little said in the attitude of the minority. So I want to cooperate consistently on better privacy, but I believe that we need to work more closely with the proposals than what happens in the vote by the minority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2200	In fact, I would like to begin by congratulating the representatives of the Left who have made this proposal, because the proposal is important in the sense that these debates are regularly linked to the protection of privacy and the storage of information, and not least to the health record. We had a similar debate last week, in which we had a specific case on the Health Register Act, but also a more general debate on these issues. When we talk about this, it's a little important that we have determined the following, at least from the Progress Party: the goal in itself is not as much as possible health records, the goal is to have the right health records, health records that allow us to put in place a better patient treatment, and that we can move on, so that patients get the most out of it. That's the goal of this. But then we're not going to look at ourselves blindly and almost say that now we're there, now we're not going to have any more registers, or that we're going to have a moratorium, which the minority is expressing here. I am very uncertain as to what could have been the consequences of such a moratorium if it had been given a majority. The representative of Boehler was in the middle of it with heart and heart records. I'm not sure if you know everything. Can it be, for example, influence some other sub-registration? Although a concession has been granted to the main register, which is the Cancer Register, can it suddenly become such that it could also affect some of these sub-registries? I don't know enough about this. I don't know what to do. Although I have also been informed that these will not be hit, I am nevertheless not sure. I would also like to make a few comments on what has to do with nuclear records, i.e. proposal No. 3 from the minority. The background to the fact that the Progress Party does not support that proposal is that we must first look at the content of the Core Journal before we look at whether it should be pseudonymised, encrypted and consent-based. Then we'll get back to that. We must come back to the Great Britain with this before such a proposal can be adopted. The party of progress will decide when it comes. The progress party is very concerned that things should be consent-based. But first let's look at the very contents of the core journal before we make the final decision. That's why the Progress Party is voting against, and we also write that in our remarks, that we want to wait and see the content of it. The same is true of what I've said about moratorium. The Advance Party is concerned that we should have good health records, but at the same time we are concerned that we must also protect patients, i.e. those registered there, from any abuse. We feel that through the proposals we have put forward here, I, II and III, which are good proposals. We fully support them. We also want a message to look at the use of and the need for a health record across health businesses. It's important to get involved. As far as new health records are concerned, I think we should take on board what has to do with the moratorium: all health records must come to the Stortingen to be adopted. It's law-based. So we'll take a look at this along the way, as it gets here, do a thorough job in Stortinget and take the assessment there, instead of saying that now we're taking a moratorium. It will take time before you can move on. It may be that we miss important things along the way, but we trust that the Storting in such contexts will be able to take the right assessment in each case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2217	One of the problems in the modern knowledge society is that knowledge is sectorised and specialised, and this tends to result in the organisation being the same and the policy becoming the same. Sometimes you can sit with a feeling that Scripture's word that one hand shouldn't know what the other is doing is the ideal that underlies the way we organize society. Therefore, it may be worth recalling that what is the starting point of this proposal for a representative is the position of the Privacy Commission, where I have registered, has been unison political agreement that there is a need for a broad review of the privacy issue in all areas of society, at the same time. Furthermore, as far as I have registered, virtually all the recommendations of the Privacy Commission are unanimous, and it is a cross-political, broad-based sample. It is the Data Protection Commission that has called for a moratorium, on the grounds that they see that there is a whole series of unresolved data protection challenges in the health sector and the developments we have had in health legislation in recent years. The Health Authority, the Health Directorate and the Data Protection Authority have not addressed a moratorium in their consultation opinions to Ot.prp. No 51 for 2008-2009, but they have argued along exactly the same lines as a unanimous data protection commission, namely that we are in the process of overloading the data protection trust account. I am still happy to see one report from the Data Protection Agency after they have gone in and carried out a check of the situation today, which concludes that there are no deviations and errors and clear omissions in the procedures of our large health companies. The last report, on Oslo University Hospital, came last week, and it again calls for obvious failures and errors in today's system. It must be true, then, that when one goes on to open quantitatively for even greater risks than before, because the greater the amount of information transferred, the greater the risk of some of these being misused, taking into account the experience already gained, and taking time to ensure that privacy is properly protected. At my discretion, all the proposals should have been adopted unanimously, and there should have been a unanimous committee behind them, for I cannot see that there have been some heavy arguments against any of the proposals that are available from the Left in this case. Let me drill a little bit deeper on proposal VI on nuclear records, which also the committee's chairman spent a little time in his post instead. It is incomprehensible to me what you think when you say that you have no reason to decide whether this should be consent-based or not. What kind of scenario are you going to see where it doesn't have to be consent-based? It's incomprehensible to me. If you are serious about what you said in the setting of Ot.prp. No 51, where the majority of the Committee introduced a requirement of consent which was not present in the Government’s proposal, it must be understood as a principle justified position, and not as a discretionary quantitative assessment position in terms of the number of data involved. To me, the principle of consent, informed consent is well to notice, really a principle, and it is unrelenting. I am not able to understand that someone says that they have to wait and see how much information is going to be included in a core journal, before taking a position as to whether to ask for consent or not. It's incomprehensible to me.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2236	First of all, I would like to thank the representatives of the Left for this good proposal. The proposal as I see it, is an answer to Ot.prp. No 51, which the Committee discussed in the Odelstingen last week, and which was adopted against the Right, Left, Christian People's Party and the representatives of Ballos, at least in relation to some of the important proposals. The proposal we are dealing with today, I believe, is an adequate and more realistic alternative as far as we have come today in terms of privacy. The Christian People's Party fully supports the proposal for the introduction of nuclear records which should contain vital information, as opposed to the Government's proposal, which was very far-reaching. I would like to base my speech on Mental Health's opinions on the Left's proposal. It's interesting to hear what organizations have to say about mental health. They support the proposal, and they believe that the proposal is a good attempt to limit the Government's proposal in the above-mentioned odelstningsproposition. Among other things, they rely on the content of the proposal for a representative, which reads: ‘The major health care problems are about misdiagnosis, electronic communication does not eliminate misdiagnosis, mistreatment or mismedication. [[and then often because there are errors, not because there is a lack of information]] But it can, on the other hand, make people afraid to talk to health professionals and increase the chance that the neighbor and other outsiders will know things that the individual wants to keep private." This is a concern that many patient groups in the field of mental health protection see as a problem in the future when they will have greater security than they have today. It has been interesting to read various articles on social media websites after the government promoted Ot.prp. No 51. Very many people have told us about episodes where their own journals have strayed or have been ‘ leaked’ from. Others think it is entirely right to introduce the Government's system. In any case, the government has not been able to communicate or create understanding and calm in all rows because their proposals are the best way to protect privacy. Then it's, as I see it, absolutely necessary to be led was. In this way, the Left's proposal is excellent and timely. I agree with what the draft representative said that it is that for every information that becomes more easily available, information is more likely to be diverted. I also agree that even if nothing comes out, it is unacceptable that people of pure curiosity should perhaps be able to read a person's complete medical history. We have to be sure that it will never happen. We see that all the barriers disappear, that more and more of our lives open to others. Privacy is a little challenged in various cases, which, in my opinion, can be dangerous overall. I believe very strongly that the government parties and the Advance Party almost overrun the opposition parties, the Right, Left and Christian People's Party, important patient organisations such as the FFO and Mental Health, and other important bodies such as the Norwegian Medical Association, the Health Authority and the Data Protection Agency last week, through the decisions taken in connection with Ot.prp. No 51. They have not wanted to listen to proposals – I would say – for better solutions. I'm sorry. I also want to thank the representative Ballo for his good clarifications of the concept of privacy. I think it was wise and timely that we got a review of that term. And then I find it quite funny that the representative Bøhler criticises this proposal, the Left's proposal, for being unfinished. I guess he also uses the term "small quality assurance". I just want to refer to the government's Ot.prp. No 51, which was really criticised by heavy hearing bodies for being unclear and premature.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2260	First of all, I would like to thank all those who have come with good words on this proposal for a representative. It's drawing well, because we have to have some kind of common platform when we're going to discuss as principled things as privacy is. Respect for individual privacy is a fundamental human right which must be safeguarded by the healthcare system in accordance with Article 8 of the European Commission on Human Rights and Article 17 of the Commission on Civil and Political Rights. Patients' private lives are protected, for example: through the establishment of health care professionals’ obligations, which from the old age have been the mainstay of the medical-patient relationship, and which is a commitment and a standard of suspicion for the healthcare service. Without trust in the caregivers’ obligation, many people would not be looking for health services if they needed help. It is generally accepted that the obligation to provide services is decisive for the trust that must prevail between the patient and the healthcare provider. The patient should be able to rely on his/her caregiver in a secure assurance that information will not be provided and the treatmenter should be able to receive information with the assurance that these cannot be required to remain undelivered. What I said now was something in the configuration, and the whole committee is in agreement. Everything would have been just joy and fun, if the Privacy Commission had not gone so far into the privacy of the health sector as they do in NOW 2009:1. At that time, the Left did not bring forward the proposals we are dealing with in this matter. In fact, I think, something I also get the impression when I hear the speakers here, that most people are concerned about privacy. But I think many people have a naive view of IT technology, that he is infallible, and that all health professionals are relevant and not curious citizens. Unfortunately, we all too often hear technical and human errors relating to health records that contain the most sensitive health information. Snoking in patient records is unfortunately not rare either. I have read a joint annual report from the patient environment. We have 19 patients in Norway, and they have issued a joint annual report for 2008. The annual report takes up three points. Point one relates to privacy and the obligation to pay taxes, point two to criminal offences in the field of mental health protection, and point three relates to interaction and a vision of a universal health service. All three points are important, but I note that the first point that these 19 patient envelopes address, and we have to be able to characterize this as perhaps the patients' leading spokespersons, the privacy and the obligations. I interpret this so that privacy is particularly important for patients, and that the debate we had in Odelstinget last Wednesday about Ot.prp. No 51, and the debate we have here today is extremely important. I could have quoted from this year's announcement. I'm not going to do that, just refer to it. In any case, the left is pleased that the whole committee supports the proposals referred to by the rapporteur. What I finally want to talk a little bit about are some comments from another representative. I perceive the representative Bøhler's view that he is out on a nearly endless list of health records. All registers are positive. I think that a natural person should have a health record, and that one should do research. But I think it's no problem to research if a user is pseudonymous and doesn't make the names well-known. In the case of proposal No: 2, about the moratorium, what are we saying there? Well, we're saying we want a review and an explanation of this. Otherwise, when this point in Ot.prp applies. No 51, which was very much discussed, on the need for cross-border access: in the recommendation from the Committee, III, we propose that we have an explanation of the need for cross-border access. I just think that we have a very good time before cross-border access has come into place, so I can't understand that not everyone can support that point.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2282	It is essential for healthcare that it is able to ensure safe and secure communication of health information. This applies both to verbal communication and to written and electronic communication. Health information shall be treated with caution and respect for the integrity of the information to which it relates. In case of hospitalisation, the information may be divulged by the doctor by other patients or perhaps also by visitors to the hospital to overhear a conversation between a doctor and his or her patient. I agree, of course, with the Committee that this must be avoided as far as possible. State health surveillance may require the correction of the circumstances in which establishments are operated in a manner which may have harmful consequences for patients or otherwise be unlucky or irresponsible, including the observance of the obligation of professional secrecy. I would like to ask the Health Directorate and the Health Inspectorate to assess what measures the Directorate and supervision consider necessary to ensure better privacy in the treatment and contact of patients. With regard to the use of pseudonyms in an electronic post-log, I am uncertain whether this will lead to a strengthening of privacy. In any case, those who carry and receive the mail will have to know the identity of the consignor or consignee for replying to the enquiry. It must always be checked that information posted on an electronic postal record record does not contain any information related to confidentiality. Even if you were to change the standard of an electronic postal record, you would still be at risk of human error. It is also the Ministry of Culture and the Church that is responsible for archival law. The need for access to patient information across healthcare companies was discussed during the debate on Ot. pp. No 51 on 10 June. The proposition is based, inter alia, on: on the report of the regional health enterprises to the Ministry of Health in December 2006, where the need for specialist health care has been addressed. The Norwegian Center for Electronic Patient Records conducted an investigation for the Health Directorate in 2007 about the same thing, and I'm content to refer to it. As Minister of Health and Care, I am committed to ensuring good privacy. It is impossible to ensure good and sound health care without, at the same time, ensuring good data protection. A central element of data protection is the right and effective ability of individuals to have control of health information about themselves. I am therefore pleased that a majority in Odelstinget joined the position of the Health and Care Committee to legislate the patient's right of access to the log. Technological development is increasingly providing better and new opportunities for obtaining health information for use in treatment and research, but it also poses major data protection challenges. The use of technologies to improve privacy and provide good regulation will provide the basis for continuing to collect and use data for, inter alia: research. The central health and quality records shall be reviewed with a view to better exploitation, better quality and safer handling of research and health monitoring data. New health records may be proposed if considered important for a better health care system. The Ministry has a central health register under investigation, often referred to as the core journal. Healthcare professionals shall be able to access critical information on individual patients in case of unplanned health care needs. A prerequisite for providing rapid, effective professional and sound health care to a patient is to know who this patient is. Health records used for patient treatment must have health records which are recognisable on the basis of a person’s identity. Therefore, information contained in a core file cannot be stored pseudonymised. Encryption will be assessed, but it is too early to conclude whether this is possible and appropriate. Knowledge and attitudes of health care providers are important. The management of any health activity is responsible for providing the necessary training, knowledge and attitudes, so that employees are well aware of the rules on information security, including professional secrecy, patient rights, procedures, etc. This will be included in the information security regulation currently under work. I will also consider asking the Health Directorate to develop a supervisor for this work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2308	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2311	The Norwegian people are moving – I was saying – across borders. We are a travelling people's behaviour in both working and, not least, holiday contexts. It is becoming increasingly common for people, for shorter or longer periods, to settle abroad, and sickness arises. In such contexts, it is of course important to have access to health information about the individual where one might be located. This is why it is important to put in place a core journal and an electronic health card, says the Progress Party. My question to the Council of State is, where are we today? We know that there is an investigation in the field: can the Council of State say something about when one can expect to get such a case, or at least what he sees as the progress in this matter? This is actually very important for those who are moving and traveling.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2318	I think it'll be a while before we get there. We need to be aware that what was adopted in Odelstinget last week is related to Ot.prp. No 51, is that it is now open that regulations can be established that can provide a basis for experimenting with e.g. regional core records. We have come no further than that the legislation opens up to implementing projects and trials with regional core journals. Only after we have had some experience of this could it be a matter of going as far as the majority of the committee wants now, namely to produce national nuclear records. So far the ministry has not been willing to go yet. Only after it has been developed can we assess electronic cards that either control access to the journal or that can contain information that can be brought to the world. There is a work going on in the EU context here, but also the work that has come so far, so it is a while before you want Harald T. Nesvik.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2323	The Council of State expressed its satisfaction at the fact that it did so during the comitology procedure of Ot.prp. No 51 had come in some things. He did not mention the consent requirement, but I assume that his joy includes it too. That's the background for my question. As I said in my post instead, I am very surprised that it is not possible to decide whether the principle of informed consent should be based also on a national core journal, because it is really about the information of the identifiable individual and has no other purpose than to meet the need for information in the appropriate case for that person. Now it is under Norwegian health law that none of us are obliged to receive treatment. We even have the right to oppose treatment. Why, then, can the Council of State consider the possibility of not having the right to object to the storage of data?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2330	The Ministry and the Government are not so bold as the representative Wage that we are already willing to go so far that we are in favour of a national core journal. Some work must be done in advance, for example: to ensure better privacy before we are willing to go this far. That's why we're now going in so that we can open it up for trials with a regional core file. If applicable in the cold water of Ot.prp. No 51, and there is a question that information in an electronic core file, in a region, should be information that is accessible to others, I believe it must be consent-based. It will be the only logical consequence of the decision taken by Odelstinget last week.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2335	I was very excited about Olav Gunnar Ballo's definition of this with privacy, and I see that it's incredibly important. What I want to ask is whether the Council of States agrees with the Ballo definition of privacy, and that it is important that this concept is not diluted. I assume that the Minister of Health believes that his term ‘patient protection’ is not synonymous with the term ‘personal protection’. Or are we diluting it already?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2340	Now I also heard the representative Ballo read out a definition. It's a little bit difficult to say in a hurry that any word that was read up there is exactly the same as the way that I would have defined it myself. But it sounded like a good definition at the speed. The fact that you are concerned about privacy does not mean that you cannot also be concerned about patient protection. What I mean is my and this big challenge in this room is to focus on both – that we're going to be able to get good patient protection with good privacy. If we do that, we take care of the important interests of privacy, but we do it in such a way that we at the same time strengthen the patient's role in health care. It's my ambition and the Government's ambition. I record that we are discussing over and over again whether we succeed in reaching that ambition, but to me there is no contradiction between privacy and patient protection. But we need to remember privacy when we're working on developing patient protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2347	In the debate on Ot.prp. No 51 referred the state councils to Oslo University Hospital and the protection of privacy there. He said, ‘Of course, it’s not that when Oslo University Hospital was established, we got a situation where all health professionals had access to all the records. It's controlled. There are rules for who should be able to go into journals, including at Oslo University Hospital – actually quite strict rules.” This was said on June 10. On 8 June, the Swedish Data Protection Authority came with a report, just from Oslo University Hospital, Department Aker, where you can read the following: ‘The relationship examined by Oslo University Hospital, Aker, reveals that the company has not had satisfactory internal control as required by the legislation. Furthermore, it has been confirmed relatively during access control, in combination with inadequate control systems to detect any unauthorised access to, or use of, health information. Furthermore, the Data Protection Authority finds that there is a unclear framework for the notification of the non-compliance within the undertaking and in so far as also in relation to mandatory notifications to the Data Protection Authority under Sections 2 to 6 of the Data Protection Regulation.’ Did the State Council know of this report from the Data Protection Authority when he presented the matter at Stortinget on 10 June?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2362	In my opinion, there is no contradiction between what I said in Stortinget and what is stated in the Data Protection Authority's report. I found in what I said to the Stortinget that this is a strict regulation. Then I also find that it is demanding to ensure that that legislation is complied with. I have not hidden the fact that we work every day to get good practice to ensure that the legislation is complied with. That is why I am very pleased with the kind of data protection reports that help us work on the important issues in such a way that we can comply with the legislation. It is a regulation, and it must be complied with. That is why I am pleased that legislation is tightened up, that the Data Protection Authority is implementing reports, that we follow up on the follow-up letters, and that we are constantly working to ensure that the legislation is complied with. And we're strengthening the code, which we're now doing in the wake of Ot.prp. No 51.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2367	The left is positive that health information is more digitised, and we are positive for more electronic interaction. But we think that there is a limit between all possible information and vital health information. That is why we have put forward this proposal as, among other things, is concerned with electronic core file. What's a point here that maybe not everyone has come up with is that we say that 'anyone can agree' to the fact that just vital information can be stored. In other words, the patient himself can download this via his or her journal system. In the debate last Wednesday, the Council of State said that he had very much faith in the nuclear records. Today, the Council of State states that trials on regional core journals are topical. My question is: Why can't the government support the Left's proposal on the core journal here today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2377	I think I have to be a little careful about it: the government isn't right in this room. So that gets the parties that vote to explain. But I have to say I have two objections. I'm not willing to go into national nuclear records right now. I don't want to go as far as the Left. I think we have to make some regional attempts first. Secondly, what was adopted in Odelstinget last week in relation to cross-border access is precisely that the information that the Left wants to include in a core journal is the type of information to be made available across borders. It is, of course, the core of the journal to be made available across borders, exactly the same as the core journal. So what I don't understand is that the left is for electronic nuclear records, but for cross-access. That, I think, is a rather demanding reasoning.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2384	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2389	I take the word because SV's big group has a vision that is somewhat different from what Olav Gunnar Ballo has said. That's why it's neat that we're preparing for it. I would like to begin by commending the representatives from the Left who have addressed these proposals. It is also the case that the Committee has joined in several respects, both in this case and in the case which was dealt with last week. Respect for individual privacy is a fundamental human right. We all demand that sensitive information be kept secret. This applies not least to health information. Therefore, access to health information must only be granted to authorised personnel. Visitors to a doctor or hospitalisation must be absolutely sure that the information is not misused or is being diverted. If patients are not safe on it, it may mean less treatment because information is withheld. Therefore, good privacy is central to good health. It is a problem that sensitive health information is provided in the hearing of persons who are not required to have this information. The typical example is the doctor's office. In such situations, more attention should be paid to information. It is therefore important that it be a unanimous committee to promote the following proposals: ‘The Government is asking the Government to ensure that the patient’s right to receive personal sensitive health information is not communicated in the hearing of others, including during the medical visit.’ With regard to proposals for the right of access to the patient record, I refer you to the treatment of Ot.prp. No 51 for 2008-2009 in Odelstinget last week. One of the laws that was passed was the patient’s right to information about who was included in his record. This means that the patient is given a legal right to have an overview of who has had access to health information about him or her — and therefore also information about whether others than those who are to treat the patient have read the record. It does not just keep good rules in order to ensure good privacy – the rules have to be complied with. And here's room for improvement. I think that's very clearly documented through both the Data Protection Agency and the stories of reality. This applies not least to professional secrecy. I think it is therefore wise to facilitate training and awareness-raising activities in this area. Training and awareness-raising and knowledge of professional secrecy and its limits must be an important part of the quality assurance work carried out by health-care establishments. The Commission for the Protection of Individuals with regard to Data Protection shall be followed up. It has been sent to the hearing, with a deadline of 20 August. I hope we get a lot of input. SV believes that a part of the issue raised by the proposed representative should be considered in the context of the further examination of the Commission’s investigation rather than establishing a moratorium on new health records. Although the SV’s representative in the Committee does not follow the other two government parties on all points, the SV’s DG does so. We will vote in favour of the Committee's recommendation under I and II, promoted by an overall committee, while voting against the Committee's recommendation under III. We will also be voting against all the minority proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2411	I will initially join in the consideration of one of the proposers, Gunvald Ludvigsen, had when it came to the post from Jan Bøhler. It is not that the Left has come up with its proposals, but it has built up the proposals on the basis of a public investigation, NOU:2009: 1 Individual and privacy Privacy in the digital society, which is very wide-ranging. And as Inge Wohnning also had in mind, there is essentially and consistently unanimity in the setting. What you're talking about with regard to health records is person-identifiable health records. I wanted both the Council of State and, for that matter, Jan Bøhler to be much more problematic about why it is necessary for the Register of Cancer to be personally identifiable today. Modern technology allows you to have identified the entire register, pseudonymized it, and run the exact same research. Instead, a number of new areas argue that the population should be included in new registers, which should also be person-identifiable, even though the Storting through the Health Register Act in 2001 unanimously agreed that this type of register should be pseudonymised. If they do not do so, the Stortinget shall establish the registers. What I've noticed, including in the government's proposals, is that we don't issue unanimous decisions in the Stortinget, but we make case submissions as if those decisions didn't take place. So I want to say with regard to the Data Protection report of June 8th, if it's true that the Council of State when he replied in Odelstinget on June 10th, knew about the report of June 8th, the presentation he gives is, in many ways, completely misleading. He presents it as if the protection of privacy is well maintained at Ullevål University Hospital, at Aker University Hospital and at Oslo University Hospital, while the Data Protection Authority gave a report about two days before, and as the Council of State says he is familiar with, is that privacy is not well maintained. So it's like copying a file and sending it to the wrong patient, where you get a complaint against yourself. That's what the council says he's familiar with, but despite being familiar with it, he doesn't say a word to the Storting about it two days later. This is how you could have gone through this – if it had been time. Continuous with regard to the Data Protection Authority, and with regard to deviations from the requirements you face today, which you are legally obliged to follow up, you have not followed up. If you further liberalise the law, so that more people can access exactly the same information, it is not, of course, a way to achieve more privacy – you achieve a reduced level of privacy. That's why this is where you have to start, with the authorities' own supervisory authorities, and take seriously the reports you get.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2422	I perceived the Government's response in the reply chord instead so that he declared his agreement to proposal No. 3, from the minority in the Committee, on the point of departure, namely that if a core file is established, it shall be based on informed consent. I think that is very positive. But it must mean that if the government parties agree with their government council, they should vote in good conscience for the proposal – and so should the Progress Party. If the Council of State considers the principle of informed consent to be in force, regardless of how much information – or ‘what type of information’ is contained in the comments of the majority – it should be possible to establish it here and now. Like the representative, Mr Ballo, I am surprised – this is first and foremost a comment on the intervention of the representative, Mr Bøhler, in this debate, but also on part of the contributions made in the Odel Sting during the discussion of Ot.prp. No 51 – that it is said that the input from the state’s own professional bodies, the Data Protection Agency, the Health Authority and the Health Directorate makes an impression. That's what the State Council itself used. At the same time, there is no trace in the proposition that these heavy statements have had any full influence at any point. In that case, I must ask to know which point has been taken into account and to emphasise the objections raised by the supervisory bodies and the professional bodies. Instead, it has been discovered that many representatives have gone a long way in putting this aside, almost with a claim that the Health Authority does not know what they are talking about, and at least the Data Protection Authority does not know what they are talking about. If that is the case, it should be a responsibility to ensure that the professional bodies become more competent – if they have so little knowledge of the reality they express. There is reason to express concern that such fundamental and heavy objections, including from central patient organisations, do not result in any degree of inadequacy or change at any point. The only tightening that has happened in this process is the one that happened in Stortinget.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2433	I interpret the Council of State as – of his reply to me now in the change of line and of what he said in the debate last Wednesday – that he collects a view that is positive to electronic core journals. He also expressed here today that he will now try this out regionally. I interpret it in such a way that he agrees in principle that nuclear records are the way forward. I'm very happy about that. On the other hand, I am surprised if the Council of State agrees that there are only limited information, vital information to be used, i.e. information on the type of blood, allergies, whether one is bleeding, etc. – let's say ten different information. If that's the information that we think should be in a core journal, i.e. the vitals that are also at the root of Ot.prp. No 51 – I almost perceive the Council of State as such – is nothing better than that from the Left’s point of view. In that case, there's a clean tibia, and we have to get it out of the world. Otherwise, I just want to give you a little example. One of the people who was in the Privacy Commission's work, a named patient environment, went out in the VG on 23 March this year and told them that she had gone into her own journal to check out what the real world is like. And what does she find? Yes, she finds that someone has a snoop. Everyone has a patient record, and if there's someone who's been snooping in it, it's not like it's being notified to it. It's completely random if you know about it. At least the damage happened. That's the kind of relationship we have to protect ourselves from. It's totally unthinkable that such things can happen. The more information you collect, the greater the risk of something unethical happening.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2442	I just want to comment on a few things in the debate – first of all, the statement by the representative Ludvigsen that I was in favour of an infinite list of health records. First of all, I mentioned a register of cardiovascular diseases, which all the other Scandinavian countries have. This is the largest disease group in Norway. We are concerned about the large quality differences in the treatment of that patient group. There is every reason to get a better overview of how cardiovascular patients are treated in Norway. Patient organisations such as the LHL, the Diabetes Association and the National Public Health Association are actively working to obtain this register. Earlier in this debate, we have been called upon to listen to patient organisations. That should also be done in this case. I mentioned two other records that I think you should look at. There is a register of neurological diseases — treatment of Parkinson’s disease, ALS, Alzheimer’s disease and MS — where there is a great need to see whether we have sufficient quality of treatment in Norway, in order to get a better overview of how these patients are treated, so that we can make the improvements that the Stortinget definitely wants. The third thing I mentioned was the treatment of patients with muscle and skeletal disorders. So I haven't mentioned an infinite list. I have mentioned some specific areas with very large patient groups. On the issue of how to ensure the protection of privacy and the quality of these registers, the Council of State launched a project in 2008 to review the quality, privacy and practices of the different patient registries. When Stortingen is going to process new registers, we're going to have to take a stand on what kind of legislation we're going to have in the areas that are listed here today, in the individual case. It is clear that it is important to look at why, for example: The Register of Cancer has been able to obtain the results that the representative Ludvigsen will not deal with. When he says in his proposal that the Cancer Registry does not save lives, that it is not used for medical treatment, I refer to the review of patients with colon cancer and endometrial cancer, where an estimated 200 more patients are rescued this year because of the Cancer Register, which has been person-identifiable, so that they have been able to go through the course of treatment. You don't relate to that kind of argument. I would like us to do the same, and that we could work more together on these issues – better patient treatment, better privacy. It has been said that we do not hear hearings, etc. Both privacy in relation to actively informed consent and the legalisation of this with the patient’s access to the log were two important reinforcements that were decided on here in the Stortingen last week, and that included, among others. based on referrals from the Health Authority. We shall listen to each other in this debate. I wish we could avoid black paint and try to take care of both patient care and privacy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2459	I just have some comments. I will try to answer some questions that have been asked to me during the debate. First, to the representative, the remuneration for consent-based purposes: as adopted by the Odelstinget on 10 June, if access is to be provided across information contained in a patient record, it must be consent-based. The same principle, I believe, must apply to a future core journal. In my opinion, if access is provided across that core journal, consent must be based on a complete and logical context in the law. That, I believe, is quite similar to the reasoning that the Committee had on introducing consent bases for cross-border access. So some words to the representative Ludvigsen. The idea behind cross-access is that the information contained in the file to be made available across borders shall be the health information necessary for the patient to be properly treated at the place of arrival. This is the most important information about the patient, e.g. intolerance to different anaesthetics. I believe that there is a lot of the same thinking that lies in the thinking about nuclear records. That's why I'm for cross-border access, but I'm also because we're now trying out core journals – initially in a regional context. Then to the representative, Ballo. I have not said – neither now nor the last time – that I knew about the report from the Data Protection Authority, which, according to Ballo, came on June 8, but I heard Ballo refer to me from the report in the reply. In what he referred to, legislation was confirmed by the Data Protection Authority, but the challenge is to comply with that legislation. In this way, unfortunately, the report of 8 June confirms the fact that the other reports from the Data Protection Authority that I have read are also in the process that we should not rest for a second in the process of ensuring that the legislation that is being established is complied with. And I'm very concerned about that in my dialogue with regional health companies. Therefore, it will also be that when we receive the report from the Data Protection Authority that I believe we have not yet received, we will read it very carefully and follow it up to Oslo University Hospital, because the legislation will be complied with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2482	Like the representative, Mr Ludvigsen, I would like to make a comment on what the Council of State is saying today, that there is only core information to be made available across borders, as is the case with the representative proposal from the Left. Then I find it strange that neither the Data Protection Agency, the Medical Association, the Health Authority, nor I have perceived it this way, and that it is not possible to read out of the motion for a resolution the clarity with which I believe the Council of State is expressing itself here today on this matter. So it's like we don't have the necessary electronic solutions in place either. So to the representative Bohemia, who, like many of us, wants more health records. But what in the world is what makes these not to be person-identifiable? I know that the representative of Bohemia has a clock faith and is very concerned about ICT solutions. What makes him think that we can't do this in Norway in 2009 — maybe next year and year after, but at least not now — without necessarily identifying it? I don't understand. We would very much like to have an answer from Bohemia.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2489	The scheduled time for tomorrow's meeting is immediately at hand. Since there is only one hour's break, the President will propose that the meeting be cancelled, and that a new meeting be set at 1 p.m. 17. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2521	I noticed the discussion between Gunnvald Ludvigsen and Jan Bøhler about the creation of new health records. Jan Bøhler said he didn't mean an infinite number of new health records. He mentioned records in the cardiovascular, neurology, and musculoskeletal and skeletal disorders. I tried to think, what of the body is it that these don't cover? If you had created a register for inmates as well, you would have covered everything. I think that where Gunvald Ludvigsen pointed this out in relation to person-identifiable records, Jan Bøhler's answer makes it obvious that it almost just becomes the imagination that sets limits on what kind of new registers to be created. I registered during the hearing that Camilla Stoltenberg suggested that a vaccine registry be used, because that would be practical. Then you would be able to register the entire population in such a register with respect to when it was given the vaccine, and who had received the vaccine. On the question of whether it should not be after active consent, she argued that it would be impractical because the register would not be as complete as desired. If you then start to look at the Health Register Act of 2001, both it and the pre-workers of the Health Register Act – with a public investigation back in the 1990s – make it clear that already at that time it was completely unnecessary to set up person-identifiable health registers for research. It is therefore fully possible for the researcher to follow events over time — including the individual patient — and yet not to identify the individual. In my view, therefore, Gunvald Ludvigsen's approach is entirely plausible, even in the case of cancer records. It would have been quite possible to pseudonymize cancer records and yet save lives, which Jan Bøhler is concerned about. There is nothing technically that would prevent it, and nothing technically prevented it ten years ago either. Therefore, it is quite amazing that the majority will adopt a law, as it did when it applied to Ot.prp. No 51 for 2008-2009, on solutions which are technically not feasible at all — while it will not be possible to pass on the law adopted under a unanimous decision on solutions that are technically feasible. That's where there's a reason to ask, is it because you're not particularly concerned with privacy that one thing becomes so important, while the other isn't? I think that is once again supported by the Council of State, when he implements the concept of 'patient protection'. I don't know about the term "patient protection" yet. This morning, the head of the National Telemedicine Centre deliberately used the term ‘personal protection’ to ensure treatment for the individual patient and thus protect it. With that kind of confusion, it is also unclear what you are discussing in relation to privacy. That is why I am a strong supporter of precise conceptual usage. In connection with the Health Register Act, precise terms were adopted, but I see that a majority in this room is no longer particularly concerned with precise concepts. The same applies in relation to the concept of ‘core journal’. The core journal can be defined precisely, but I also see that the Council of State is using vague terms as to what is in the term. To be clear on where you want to go in this case, I think it is appropriate to be precise in terms of use.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2532	No salary has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2535	Among the important clarifications in this debate is the clarification by the Council of State that it basically upholds the principle of informed consent, also in relation to a possible core record. It makes it all the more obvious to ask one more time: the majority in the setting rejects proposal No. 3, which is precisely this, by pointing out that the principle of informed consent cannot be taken into account until it is possible to see what information should be concerned. If it were to be understood that the majority of the Committee here fundamentally disagreed with the Council of State, it would be useful if it were resolved. Finally, a small comment on the contributions of the representative Holmås. In the Odelstung debate on Ot.prp. No 51 for 2008-2009, the parliamentary head of SV said that SV in this case, as in all other cases, is behind the Government. I realized that it was the same message from Heikki Holmås. It might be a professional neurosis, but it makes me think, from my field, that it's the newcomers that are the most zealous. SV has never had government experience before, but in four years they have managed to become the most disciplined powder of all.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2542	Gunvald Ludvigsen has spoken twice earlier in the debate, and is given the floor to a brief comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2545	That has been an interesting debate. I think there have been some positive things, not least there are many who have said that the debate is important and positive to bring with it. But as I see it, it says that something important: What does the Council of State actually mean is the substance of the topic of ‘life-required health information’? That should be something the Council of State could say about here. I think that the point – what is the substance of the topic ‘life-required health information’ – is also an important matter, a basis for the debate and for a possible inconvenience here today. So it would be natural for the definition of it, a concrete definition here, to be presented to the Storting somehow.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2552	Jan Bøhler has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2555	The question asked by Davøy about why registers should not be person-identifiable. The cancer registry is justified by the distinction between treatment records, the entry into the course of treatment and the need to investigate more closely what has happened to the individual patient, and therefore personalised records are available. It has given the results I mentioned when it comes to e.g. colon and rectal cancer, and the course of patients there. The same issue will be when entering new treatment registers, which the Cancer Registry wants to create for other cancers, such as the use of drugs. lung cancer, prostate cancer, etc. Here I see that the committee is positive. I have not registered any suggestion in Stortinget that, in the case of the cancer registry's treatment records, they should be deprived of the legal support they have for being person-identifiable. It'll be dramatic in case. It is possible that this can be done in other ways and with better technological solutions in the future, but we need to look at that on a case-by-case basis. Therefore, I said that we cannot generally say that it should not be person-identifiable, but that we must come back to it when we process each new register.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2564	Harald T. Nesvik has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2567	The representative's salary had a challenge related to what has to do with the consent bit. It was the Party of Advancement that obtained active consent in connection with the treatment of Ot.prp. No 51 for 2008-2009. The party of progress is behind it, and it's important that it's there. That's why we said it had to be in place, so we could give our consent. As regards proposal No: 3 that's over here, it goes beyond what's relevant to the consent. It says that the Government is asked to establish a solution with electronic core file ‘where individual consents to the storage of vital information is pseudonymised and encrypted’. Further consideration of how the data are to be processed means that we are promoting that proposal. So it may be, as Inge Wohnung also pointed out, that it is possible that it is not well enough written in the note. But the Progress Party is in favour of it with consent, but we have said, now let's get the matter to the Stortinget, that's where it's going to be dealt with. We'll follow up on what we've done all the way, and we'll also do it then.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2578	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 12th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3817]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2595	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given following contributions from members of the Government. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2604	First, I would like to pay tribute to the proposers for addressing an important theme that affects many individuals and families every day. Publishers raise many individual proposals that they have gone into very carefully, and the central issue that has been raised will be important in the further work on a comprehensive policy on the drugs field in the future. One could of course have addressed some of these proposals and joined them, but I believe that overall it will be difficult to agree on different areas at this time, without taking into account the whole and the plans that have already been implemented by the Government. As rapporteur of the case, I would like to point out that the Government has presented a comprehensive plan for the field of drugs with measures in the fields of prevention, treatment, rehabilitation and the commitment to research and competence. This escalation plan provides the framework for government policy in this area, and the drug field is reinforced by over 700 million. kr in the current period. Implementation and implementation of the escalation plan will take time. The aim is that all actions should be implemented or initiated by 2010. We have noted the response of the Council of State to the proposers that this plan should be replaced by a new plan, a long-term strategy that sees the challenges in the field of drugs as a whole. It will be important in further work on the follow-up to the escalation plan that the new strategy has a broad and effective involvement of all stakeholders, including users, relatives, volunteers, policymakers, health businesses, municipalities and private actors in the area. I want to commend the Government for doing a lot in the field and increasing the appropriations in this period, but believe that there are still major challenges related to the drug field in establishing a more comprehensive and better offer to anyone who needs help than we have today, and also faster than what we see in many areas. I have noticed that after the escalation plan was presented in autumn 2007 with 147 new measures, the Health Directorate’s 2008 status report shows that 74 pst. the actions in the plan have already started. The escalation plan shall strengthen drug prevention activities and give increased influence to users, and better care to relatives, including children and siblings of drug addicts. We are pleased that the value of the plan is that the whole drug field is to be seen in context and anchored in the overall government policy, where the good services and users are to be at the centre. The majority of the committee is a little surprised at the proposal that has been made, and that no mention is made of prevention in an even better way than what is done in what has been written. What is important in the context of drug policy is to have a restrictive policy on alcohol and alcohol, such as: are carried out in Norway and many other countries. If this does not form the basis for policy in this area, it is difficult to see the proposals as a whole. We will also show that an overall committee in the 2009 budget position asked the Government to put up a strategic effort on drug addicts interventions after 2010. The Committee agreed that after the planning period there would be a need for further investment in the care of drug users, despite the fact that the government of Stoltenberg has strengthened the drug field by an additional 307 million. kr for 2009. Therefore, we believe that the government of Stoltenberg should have more time to follow up the request decision in accordance with the Committee’s decision and the Storting decision.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2625	Let me first say what we should all agree on: Russ users have been a neglected group in Norway for many years, and drug care in Norway needs new ideas, new grips and new solutions. The undersigned has registered that politicians from several parties – if not all – have been out and pointed out the need for more dignified and comprehensive care. It is therefore with surprise and wonder that I note that none of the 55 proposals of the Progress Party, which are being promoted in the Chamber today, is endorsed by one of the other parties. In addition, I record that there is not a single proposal to improve the care of the other parties. With respect to reporting – also for my own college in the Health and Care Committee – it seems that the cancers have been used to discuss nuclear records and patient protection and laws. Nobody wants to go into the situation of those who have a drug problem. It's sad, and it's very disrespectful to the addicts. Is it just in the media you think anything about the need for better care? It is obviously not the position of the other parties that something should be done when the matter is now under consideration in Stortinget. The Progress Party outlines a wide range of issues and proposals for solutions in this wide-ranging case. All, from prevention, everyday alcoholism, drug institutions, aftercare, LAR treatment and social settings, are mentioned. Unfortunately, no one is going into one single proposal. The plan of the Progress Party has been consulted in more than 50 organisations and institutions. An overwhelming majority of these are positive to the overall approach envisaged. Actors who have usually taken different positions in the debate on care generally agree on many of the proposals that are being promoted today. There is therefore reason to argue that this proposal for a representative has outlined solutions to which many can subscribe. Unfortunately, it doesn't seem that any of the parties join it. Or could it be that they are overworked by committee work? It is surprising that parties who say they get better use from private and non-profit drug institutions do not support our proposal today. There are more than 4,300 drug users in line, and the problem is increasing, regardless of whether the current government has allocated more funds. At the same time, we also know that there are free capacity and available beds at the Salvation Army, Vangsetter and a number of other institutions. I've heard a number of politicians talk about the importance of the R in the LAR, not least about the need for day-to-day aftercare. You have the opportunity to support this today, but unfortunately you do not want to deal with the proposal at all. This Opinion, adopted unanimously, was drawn up in the light of the paper produced by the Section for Protection of the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. It is a problem that today there is too low competence in primary health services, school health services and child protection related to these problems. It is therefore necessary, as we see it, to address these problems in a new way. This I honestly thought was something that several of the parties agreed on. Why, then, vote against the proposals, without even proposing other measures, is in many ways a political impossibility. This matter concerns dignity and care. This is a matter of short and good concern about how we, as a society, will take care of those sitting at the bottom of the table. This is about many thousands of relatives, who live every day in fear of their loved ones who have landed on the road. Shouldn't we, who are the high organs of the country, take this somewhat more seriously? I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party in this matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2646	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2649	I would also like to pay tribute to the proposers for addressing this issue, and for their thorough consideration of the central issues in the field of drugs. Like what the other parties have signaled, the Right Individual could have joined some of the proposals, but we believe that overall it is difficult to give our support to the different areas now, without considering the whole and the plans that have actually been implemented. But I perceive that there is a broad consensus in the Storting that we want to improve the care of the Russians, although I also believe that the government has failed the addicts in the years they have had the government power. I must also say that the representative Fredriksen must have been quite absent if he has not registered the commitment that has been for drug policy these years. The number of people affected by drug problems is very high — and when we count on all parents, children, friends and colleagues for those who have a drug problem, there are quite a number of them. Russ problems concern all of us as fellow humans. For the Right, a better offer to drug addicts and their families is at the top of our priority list, along with mental health protection. The motivation is simple – it's these patients who need it the most. The aim is for people with mental and drug problems to experience an offer from the world’s best health and care services. The co-operation management has ensured that the number of seats in medically assisted rehabilitation is doubled. We expanded the provision of low-threshold healthcare from services in eight municipalities in 2001 to 38 municipalities in 2005. The appropriations allocated to specialised, multidisciplinary treatment under the auspices of health establishments were strengthened and a separate grant scheme for municipal follow-up actions was also established. So it's happened a lot in the last few years. Although there has been an explicit political objective to strengthen the supply of drug addicts and mentally ill people, the reality is that it has been the somatic health service that has clearly increased most in recent years. It was the Minister of Health Ansgar Gabrielsen who instructed regional health firms that the growth in drug treatment and mental health protection should be stronger than in the somatic area in 2005. And for the first time in history we see that this became a reality, which I have recorded that the Stoltenberg government has followed up. We're not on target. We believe, like the other parties, that a national obligating escalation plan in this area is absolutely necessary. The measures included in the plan should include strengthening prevention and care measures, as well as improving treatment provision. Prevention measures need to be more targeted, in particular for children and young people living in families affected by drug problems and mental disorders. There is a need to strengthen the low threshold of health and care measures so that those who live with drug dependence can also meet the basic need for a home, a meal and necessary health care. A contingency plan for the drug field must ensure a balanced range of drug-assisted rehabilitation and drug-free treatment services. Although we still need more places in the LAR, it is essential that we now ensure the follow-up of patients in these measures. The municipal social service plays a key role in this work and must have sufficient resources to monitor users in terms of employment, housing and support measures. In addition, it is important to remember that methadone and Subutex are serious addictive agents. Drug-free treatment provision should therefore be the first choice for most patients. However, it may seem that someone is going from one ditch to the other — from a position that methadone is banned to a position that this is the only solution. Worse still, the Minister of Health assesses heroin-assisted drug treatment. Finally, I would like to stress that everyone in this Chamber must have humility in relation to the questions we are now discussing. Russopolitik contains many dilemmas, but above all we must extend a hand to those who have drug problems and to their families – do not push out, punish or condemn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2670	It is exciting that the Progress Party initiates this debate today. The drug policy document we are dealing with consists of nearly 50 pages. Nevertheless, as I can see, there is little or nothing about the relationship between drug availability, consumption and harm. Increasing availability, increasing consumption. Increasing consumption, increasing damage. Ways of preventing availability are higher prices and limited access to alcohol and drugs. If this is removed, consumption will increase. This will lead to more damage and death, and we know this is documented. When the Progress Party will liberalise Norwegian alcohol legislation by, for example, making wine available in shops, lowering the fees and extending the delivery times will result in increased consumption and damage. The damage not only affects those who abuse, but also other innocent people: children who grow up with addicted parents, and people in the city who are exposed to blind violence. In my view, such a policy makes it difficult to see the proposal for a representative as a whole. When we first deal with an issue of alcohol policy and alcohol issues, I just want to mention, as an aproposal, a whole new organization that has started up these days, called BAR – Children of drug users. It's a very exciting organization, and they work for the following purposes: They shall take care of the child’s perspective in relation to the experience of children of parents with drug abuse. They shall make the human being and the child visible behind the drug addict’s façade – the resources and opportunities that lie there. They shall strengthen the rights of children of drug users. They shall make children of drug users visible as a resource. They will work against changes in the law that make drugs more accessible. It is precisely this that is so important that we also have that bit of alcohol policy when discussing measures. Russ shall not, and may not, be part of the everyday life of children. In my opinion, it is not just useful to repair damage and not be willing to look at alcohol legislation that can help to protect children better. The representative Fredriksen said from the pulpit instead that many organisations – I think he mentioned the number 40 – had been a sort of consultative body, and they very much agreed with the proposals. The committee is not aware of that. Personally, I have received two letters of consultation, and in one of these, at least a number of questions are asked about several of the proposals. That's it! Nevertheless, I would say that there are many of these proposals which are in themselves good, and on which the Christian People's Party could well be involved. So the background that we're not in is that we don't feel like this is a whole plan. In addition, we agree with the arguments put forward both by the rapporteur and by the representative, Mr Sjøli, and we agree with that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2705	These proposals were made after we had had a heated, emotional and very engaging debate on Norwegian drug policy – whether we were doing things well enough, and whether we were giving proper help to drug users. In the proposal for a representative we are discussing, there are many good measures that focus on a wide range of issues. The reason why we in the Central Party do not vote for any of the individual proposals here is not that we are opposed to the proposals, but that a comprehensive plan has now been put forward to look at the work in the drug field. The Stoltenberg range, which was set down in winter, has the heaviest users in focus, but they have expressed themselves that they want to focus on the whole chain. The Stoltenberg Committee is broadly composed and will present its report in February next year. Our hope is that the recommendations made by the sample will provide a good basis for developing a more targeted policy across the field. We all agree that it is necessary. Unfortunately, even though there has been a strong escalation of drug care, it is also seen with the naked eye that the challenges are great, and that recruitment to the drug environment is far too high. In the debate on drug policy, the urgent debate is quick. It works in the hearts when we see people suffering. But what we must not lose sight of in our desire to help those who have a drug problem is that the most important job we do in the long term is to bet on prevention. Fortunately, the drug addicts are not forgotten. In the budget last year, a large and broad majority of the Committee, across traditional dividing lines, expressed their wish for a new escalation plan. During the winter, 50 million have been put in place. kr to rusakutt in Oslo through the crisis package in January. Later in winter, 60 million were put in place. SEK to the Church's Bymission in immediate action. It's obvious that we need to give more help and better help. We're not going to be able to increase the appropriations a lot, but uncritically putting on more money is not the solution. We have to bet on what works, and that is and will be a wide range of measures. Several of the measures proposed by the Progress Party are measures that we can agree on and that I believe will be included in the work of the Stoltenberg Committee of the Party’s representative Carl I. Hagen. That's the individual we're talking about, and every single person, every single person, is, of course, the most important resource in society, the wealth of society. We need to think about prevention in order to reduce the number of drug problems. And then we shouldn't forget that in the case of even the heaviest drug addict, we don't have to give up hope that he can get out of bed. A good and safe start for the children in the family, in kindergarten, and in school is essential for all to become authoritative and secure. The centre party has strong faith in the authoritative man who thinks and takes care of himself and his own, and who will contribute to the security network needed to help those who fall through. I don't think society will ever be able to give enough to the police, hospitals, nursing staff, drug treatment if we don't bet any more on building a solid foundation of legitimate people with attitudes that all have responsibility for their own health, and that the neighbor and the classmates are doing well. What has warmed most in the year I have been on the Health Committee is the meeting with all the individuals, the burning souls who want to help fellow humans. I have great faith in the voluntary organizations, and faith has been strengthened after I visited the Gatehospital, which the Salvation Army operates, the meeting place of the Church's City Mission, people in = Oslo, and seen in my own hometown, Hamar, how the Church's social service helps people who have come a little outside of daily social life. These organizations are doing a huge job each in their own unique way. Supporting non-profit-making activities is very important. They know people who have problems, and they know in many ways what works. If I want to briefly summarise what I think is the biggest challenge in the field of drugs, it is first of all targeted prevention – less to enter the drug environment – and secondly that those entering the drug environment must have the security of a home, the security of a home. Those of us who have been inside a hostel a few times know that there is no permanent solution. We need to get rid of the treatment queue. One must receive treatment when one is motivated and not in line for a long time. We need to reduce the number of overdose deaths. Rusakutten is an important instrument. We have to fill the r with content, so it's going to be rehabilitation, not just drugs. But what gives me hope is that now we've put down a wide selection, there's a broad consensus in the committee, and there's a broad consensus in the Great Britain about betting and thinking new, so I think we can get a lot of exciting debates in this field forward.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2722	This is an important debate. The left is busy because those who need the most have a high priority and are helped to live valuable lives. The left has invited the Stortinget to discuss the situation of drug users at several times during this period. I think we had an interpellation debate in 2007, and we are also making a representative proposal in March 2008. As has been said, the other party has also taken similar initiatives during this pouring period when the care of russo has been discussed here in the hall. At least I agree entirely with what the representative Sjéli said, that we have been busy with this both in individual debates here in the Stortinget and also in connection with the annual budgets. So I want to reject that we're not busy with this, but what we have to recognize is that there are no simple solutions. I think it might be harder to meet the challenges we face in the field of care than in many other areas. Then we need to develop and improve the traditional solutions. We don't have to give on the boat what works. But the left is also busy – as someone has already said here – with new solutions, we have to be willing to try new solutions. The left has our positive to – and we support – for example. making spray-suppression systems permanent, because we think it is important in a national context. In that debate, I also think that we have to make municipal politicians responsible for our own citizens in our own municipality – I think it is very important, even from a small place, that one does not just see the back of them when they sit on the bus or train and travel to the big city. I know a lot of examples of local social services – I would say – one has been kind of happy when a problem went away. It's sad and tragic, but that's enough, unfortunately. We have also proposed that the role of the drug addict should be strengthened. They have to print drugs. The left is also positive to a trial project with heroin on prescription, almost a model from Switzerland. When we are, it's because we see that here there are as many – as Trygve Schlagsvold Vedum said, and I'm completely in agreement with – individual. That's what we're talking about. We must have a varied offer. But we don't just have to have a medical offer, which others too have been in, because that's not enough. We need a housing offer, we need a job offer, and we need social follow-up. So, of course, prevention is also a part of it, but for those who have come out a little skeptical, it is absolutely crucial that one has this total after-protection supply – housing, work and social follow-up. I don't think we've been good enough. We haven't been good in the other areas either. I just think I want to say that with the consensus that is in this room, it's a little sad that we haven't been able to come together a little bit longer. But at least I want to support all good initiatives, including new initiatives.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2735	Let me also start by commending the representatives Jensen, Nesvik, Ellingsen and Eriksson for doing a good and thorough job with this representative proposal, although I also believe that the representative Davøy has a lot of good points in his post. The escalation plan for the drug field was presented in the autumn of 2007. The escalation plan provides the framework for government policy in this area. The initiatives in the drug field must be seen in the context of, inter alia: efforts to prevent poverty and efforts in housing policy and in the field of mental health. The plan has 147 interventions in the prevention, treatment, rehabilitation, research and building of competences in the field of drugs. Through the escalation plan, the Government strengthens drug prevention, increased influence on users, and better care for children and siblings and other relatives. The government is concerned that the supply of drug addicts is part of the overall supply of health and social services, although in some areas specific measures will be needed. Most of the measures in the escalation plan for the drug field are in progress, 74 pst. according to the Health Directorate’s annual status report for this plan. The aim is for all actions to be implemented or, at least, to be launched by 2010. There is still a lot left in the drug field, but I would like to stress that we are doing well. Annual appropriations for the drug field have been increased by more than 700 million. kr since the Government joined. In addition, municipalities and hospitals are significantly strengthened. However, I agree with the proposers that the situation related to drug care in Norway is still not satisfactory. I've pointed this out as "failure in all the terms." I am committed to meeting the challenges through a systematic effort to find out where it fails, why it fails and what we can do about it. I am sure that some of the 55 points of the proposalers contain some of the answer. It is necessary to build on the experience gained from the escalation plan. Many of the measures are evaluated independently, and I will provide an overall review of the experience of the plan. At the same time, it is important to include experiences from other countries’ drug policies. The escalation plan needs to be replaced by a new, long-term strategy that takes a holistic view of the challenges in the field. In order to achieve a good strategy, I will focus on a thorough process of broad involvement of all stakeholders, both users, relatives, volunteers, lawmakers, health companies, municipalities, private actors and, of course, the Stortinget. I have previously stated that I am absolutely sure that there is a cross-political consensus that we will continue to bet on the drug field in the years to come, even after the escalation plan for the drug field expires in 2010. I'm still sure of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2756	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2760	I don't doubt the Minister of Health's commitment in the field. He has expressed this on several occasions, also that he will consider new measures. Two questions to the Council of State: Question 1: Will the Council of State now at least ensure that the proposals made here by the Progress Party are taken into account so that they can follow both the Council of State and the Department in the further development of a more comprehensive and effective drug treatment chain? Question 2: Several have addressed the issue of prevention and its importance, not least to children and young people. Youth Against Drugs, which is a very important organisation in that field, delivered last year's application for support too late. As a result, they lost State aid and the possibility of continuing their prevention work. Will the Council of State ensure that this organisation is now reassessed so that they can continue their work?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2769	To the first question, the answer is obviously yes. This plan has been forwarded to the Ministry by the Progress Party to give an opinion to the Committee in the course of its proceedings, and many have said that this is a thorough work that is important for the further work on the drug field. That doesn't mean we agree with everything, but that means there are many important proposals. To the last question: If I'm going to answer it properly and really, I have to get back to the representative Nesvik – because if I'm going to answer it very briefly, I think it'll be more reprehensible than the one we're meeting. Let me therefore have the opportunity to look at the matter before I answer the question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2776	The Council of State said that there is a failure at all stages of the supply of drug addicts. I agree. There are 4,300 people waiting for drug treatment. Most of them want a restless life. You might say that the government has failed the addicts, at least the professionals and the addicts' organizations say it. The waiting time for drug treatment has increased significantly under the red-green government, while cutting out many treatment sites according to figures from the Health Directorate. My question is, what does the Council of State think about it?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2785	I must honestly admit that if there is to be some fairness in politics, I would be glad to admit that we could do even more. We have work to do! But there's at least one thing that's safe, and that's that we've done more than the previous government. If there's going to be some kind of whole thing in it, you have to say, well, the previous government did something, this government has built it on and done even more. That doesn't mean we're in the goal. So the question of the number of treatment sites. The easiest thing to say was that success in drug policy is about how many treatment sites you have, and that you get the most into a treatment site. I'm at least equally concerned about saying, what happens to those people when they're done with treatment? Do they then want to live their lives with their drug problems? It may not be an objective to have as many drug treatment sites as possible. Drug treatment must be effective. That's why you can't just look at the number, but also the quality. I think the representative Sjøli really agrees with me on that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2792	I agree with you, Councillor!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2797	Like the representative, Sjøli, I am also concerned that the waiting time is increasing especially in the area of drug treatment, and that we have free capacity in some drug institutions that are still not in use. But my question really applies to something else. Especially here in Health South-East, treatment times, i.e. the length of residence in institutions, have been drastically reduced. There are only 15 places left in this area where you can stay for more than one year. We have received messages from various drug agencies that now there have also been loopholes. What I'm asking is, is if the Council of State might think of doing an investigation, because it's terrible if it turns out that some ruspacers go in and out -- maybe they're counted multiple times, that the same patient is counted over and over again. Then it's pointless statistics that come out. My point is the same as that of the Council of State – it's every person who has to count, whether they get help or not. I could imagine hearing if the Council of State could respond positively to whether he would investigate whether this is happening, and to what extent.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2806	Firstly, it is important to say as regards the situation in Health South-East that they have now completed a large purchase round, and are now in the process of establishing – I take a reservation – 60 new places. I believe there are 60 new treatment sites in Health South-East. Without prejudice, I also believe to remember that several of them are directed towards long-term treatment. It's about trying to adjust the offer when you see that you don't meet the needs that are there. So to the question that Davøy raises, what happens to the patient? I'm very concerned about that. Therefore, it is important that we now, as I said in my main post, carefully evaluate the escalation plan. I also believe that we now have patient records that can tell us something about whether we have a problem with swing door spacers. I know we've had it, but the goal is to have fewer. Let me look at that question.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2813	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2818	The representative, Fredriksen, wondered if the Committee had been slightly overworked as it had not been included in the proposals and would support the individual proposals. He thought it was very little with new thoughts. The most important thing is not new thoughts, but the thoughts that are not yet thought are perhaps the most important ones for care in the future. But I would like to remind you, as I said in my post, that there are 147 measures that are included in this escalation plan that the Stortinget is gathering around, and that are now soon implemented. There I just want to refer to some of the things that have already been done: Emergency counsellors have been established in the counties to contribute to the implementation and implementation of the escalation plan. It's made its own research center, SERAF. A national competence network has been established to prevent and treat problems in children of mentally ill and/or drug addicts. There is also a three-year trial of coordinating trustees in 30 selected municipalities. The Patient Rights Act has been amended with a focus on individual needs, quality and content rather than frameworks and structures. It's a qualification program, and it's housing expenditure. There are caterpillars in place. Legal regulation of children’s rights has been made when parents have a serious illness — in the area of drugs, psychiatry or somatic medicine. There is further training in drug problems. There is a separate initiative for women in Bredtveit prison and self-employment in the Municipality of Oslo – Gatehospitalet. Combined research and clinical service for psychologists and doctors within the TSB has been facilitated. And this is the Waiting Time Guarantee for children and young people. In addition, the Council of State has said that along the way are overall municipal drug policy plans, anti-caht abuse measures in relation to family measures in families where this is a particular problem, prescriptions on medically assisted rehabilitation, LAR guidelines, changes in the alcohol law – among others. in the case of gift periods – better coherence and overall treatment and rehabilitation, early intervention – 30 projects are in progress – better health care for seriously ill drug users, those who are difficult to reach today – better registration and documentation systems, quality both in treatment and rehabilitation – and, not least, enhanced provision for people with both drug dependence and mental illness. Then we have the practice consultant system plus much more proposals that are in the process and that are due to be launched before 2010. When we take this a little bit into consideration and look at the evaluation, the government has said that it will come up with a new plan to follow up on this with new measures. I believe then that the proposals that have already been promoted by the Progress Party, which the Council of State confirms, will be part of that assessment. Therefore, the majority of those committees will continue to be in line with what was previously adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2854	It is not that you started a drug policy or treatment yesterday, but the question is whether what you are doing works well enough. And there I think you get different answers based on who you're talking to. When you listen to Asphjell, you should think that in Norway you have a russian that shines so it shines – but that's not really the case. Regardless of what we're talking about, we have over 4,300 people in line for treatment, we have major interaction challenges related to the first line service, the special line service, and we also have a high level of competence when it comes to primary health services. There's no doubt about it. So the challenges we have are many. We were accused here of not having preventive policies. We do, and we prioritise it, and that is precisely why we are addressing the ‘Youth against Drugs’ organisation as an important element in the prevention of drug use. And I have to say that when the Left makes claims that they have had similar initiatives, and that this is something that has gone on in the period, it is actually that of proposals that have come from the parties, this is the largest and most comprehensive we have had. It goes without saying that the government as such has completely different resources to develop both thoughts and suggestions about things. To the Christian People's Party, which is talking about measures for children: I very much agree that it is important. In this respect, the following proposals can be considered, first proposal No. 24: ‘The Government is asking for action to be taken by the Government to ensure that primary health services and the school community are provided with increased skills related to the problem of children of drug users.’ Proposal No. 25: ‘The government is asking for action to be taken by the Government to increase the capacity and scope of the provision to children of drug users.’ Proposal No. 26: ‘The Government asks the Government to provide an evaluation related to the management of children in families with drug problems by the State and local authorities.’ Proposal No. 27: ‘The Government is asking the Government to take the necessary steps to increase the competence of the problem of children of drug users in childhood and youth psychiatry.’ If the Christian People's Party believes that these are measures that need to be implemented in Norwegian law enforcement, they must vote in favour of our proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2884	I think it is very few times that I have been involved in committee proceedings, and with the result that we have now, where I believe that proposals have been deleted. It seems to me that in many ways in this matter the Committee has almost lighted up with light and light for a reason not to deal with the proposals that lie there. And it's awfully easily transparent. I'll just read a little bit from the notes, which shows just what you've been looking for. It says that the majority of the committee «considers it alarming that the proposers do not affect the relationship between alcohol and drugs, consumption and adverse effects.» [[...]] [[...]] I accept that. It is well documented etc., etc. Then it goes on to say: ‘If this does not form the basis of the policy in this area, it is difficult to see the draft representative as a whole. On this basis, the majority propose that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol.» This must then, with respect, be said to be the thinnest straw I have ever seen in order not to deal with a proposal. In this connection, I would actually like to read from a draft Blue Cross hearing. It's not that often I quote Blue Cross from Stortinget's pulpit. I'm going to do that now. This draft Blue Cross consultation was dated 30 March 2009 and reads as follows: ‘The proposal reflects well around ‘a holistic approach’, both in terms of funding systems and the important care chain prevention, treatment and follow-up. We note many good proposals for individual measures.’ Furthermore, I must make a recommendation to the representative, Mr Davøy. After her post, she talked about the importance of children. The representative Fredriksen was in on, and sketched, the suggestions. I wonder if you have actually read this whole proposal before considering it. I would like to draw attention to page 29 of the draft representative, under point 3.6.1, the children of drug addicts. It says exactly what Laila Bavøy referred to. I would also like to draw attention to point 3.6.2, family protection, and to point 3.6.3, social networks. Because in the post-point point, this proposal has just taken into account what everyone has been on the floor and said, that we have to do something here. But I'm at least happy with one thing, and that's that the Council of State will take this into its further work. I accept that you have not found it worth going in and evaluating the individual proposals – because that is what it is. There are 55 individual proposals under consideration, and it is sad to know that the Storting will vote down 55 individual proposals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2907	I understand that the Progress Party is disappointed that no parties will vote in favour of this plan. It's not the Stortinget or the individual parties that have called this plan a whole plan. It is, of course, in the proposal of the Progress Party that it says that this is «a plan for a worthy and comprehensive care for the elderly, with an individual in focus». The plan contains much more than a single proposal. In the prose text, there is nothing about, for example: the adverse effects of alcohol. In the chapter that begins with the proposals, it says a little about alcohol. There's a bunch of numbers that are completely correct. There is no error. There are numbers of developments. As I read this, it's a big ‘but’ in several of the sections, that alcohol, for example. The number of drug users is not as high in use in Norway as in other countries, and there is considerable uncertainty about the number of drug users. We don't want to say that you're kind of minimizing the numbers, because the numbers are right. But it is possible that there is some sort of explanation as to why the Progress Party will not go into it and make suggestions on how to look at the relationship between, for example. access to alcohol and adverse effects. Therefore, there will only be repairs. There's something of the background at least because I and the Christian People's Party can't view this as a whole plan. This is not only a single measure, but there is also a prose text. That many organisations support the individual measures, I think, is very positive. We haven't heard what all these organizations have said in hearings. I've heard one. There, several of the proposals were questioned and said that it might have been done in a slightly different way. But some of the suggestions are good. But we can't go because what's available here is a whole plan. That's something of the background. I hope the Progress Party understands that. Then there will certainly be many suggestions in other matters in this Chamber that we can agree on. I do not benefit from an entire plan, as it is available here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2919	I think it is sad that the Christian People's Party is involved in this, is the beginning of the proposal itself where it says that a whole plan is presented, a whole plan that Blue Cross has said there are many good measures in it. Youth Against Narcotics has said that, =Oslo and a number of others have given the same impression. But what the Stortinget is invited to decide today is 55 individual decisions. It does not initially say that all of these are part of a comprehensive plan and that these measures must be voted on. No, just to meet what the representative Mr. Davøy has to say, 55 individual proposals have been put forward. Nor is it correct, as the representative Davøy says, that there is no alcohol. It says a lot about alcohol. It says that alcohol is the biggest problem we have on the drug front today. It refers to alcohol related to prevention measures among children and young people. It says about alcohol in lowthreshold drug-related services. It says the importance of postponing the debut age for those who start drinking alcohol. There are a number of measures related to alcohol. If the representative of Davøy had read the whole proposal, she would have seen that these measures were mentioned in this document. Of course, I respect the fact that we will not vote in favour of the proposals. But I don't think you should try to figure out why you don't want to go into these proposals. A number of different proposals have been dealt with in this Chamber. We've called them different things. But at least we have had the respect for them that we have gone in and evaluated the proposals that have been promoted. Here you can almost get the impression that you are looking with light and light in order not to start looking at each proposal. That may not be right, but I say that's the impression I'm left with. At least I'm very happy that you're going to take these proposals further. It deserves the drug addicts. It is not for the sake of the Progress Party, but for the sake of the drug addicts. It's the ones that need this follow-up. It is those who need broad measures. We actually owe them that, because we've held so many party speeches in this field that we owe them to go into these proposals. That's what disappoints me the most. It's not necessarily that 90 pst. of our proposals have been voted down. But what disappoints me is that it might seem that you're not interested in going into these proposals. That's what's sad.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2928	Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has spoken twice before and is given the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2931	The party of progress cannot demand or demand the support of anyone. It's going to be up to each of the parties to decide for themselves. But it's based on a political principleal disagreement, for example. that we have a different policy than that of the Christian People's Party. Yes, we do. However, if it is to be taken into account that there is no support for proposals aimed at caring for the children of drug users, I believe that they have gone too far in relation to their position in principle, and you forget to see the drug addicts and their relatives. We will come back concretely with why we oppose the proposals of the Christian People's Party later today, but then we do so with respect for the Christian People's Party. It is not that we therefore disagree with the Christian People's Party in all other matters.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2938	It's a little strange to sit and listen to the debate. I have followed the debate quite carefully. At first I listened to the representative, Jorod Asphjell, who praised the proposal and agreed with many of the individual proposals that were in the matter, and said that this was something we had to take with us. Then I listened to the representative, Sjøli, who did the exact same thing. Then I listened to myself, and I also gave very much praise. Then I listened to Ludvigsen, and he gave very much praise, and then I heard from Hanssen, the State Council, who said he would take along the 55 proposals in the further work. I don't think I've rarely been sitting under a debate in Stortinget where I've heard so much praise from the Progress Party and the work done, and so much praise from a Document No. Eight proposals. But when I listen to the summary round, I get the impression that we've been sitting and criticizing the proposal apart, even though that's the opposite thing that's happened. What this debate shows is that we all want to take the most targeted and good measures possible. I referred to the Stoltenberg Committee, where Carl I. Hagen is represented from the Progress Party, and said that we want the widest possible review. When we are going to launch new measures, we need to be sure that they are targeted, that they are good, and that we are getting the most efficient use of resources. That is why we have not gone into the individual proposals. We believe that many measures have been put in place that we need to see how they work, and processes have been started in which we need to re-evaluate new, targeted and good actions in the field.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2945	It has been interesting to follow this debate. There have also been many good speeches, and there is an important debate. But, like my colleagues in the Progress Party, I am disappointed that there is no way to reach a single decision, is unable to support one of the proposals under consideration and proposed by the Progress Party. This testifies to the fact that we once again experience the great celebrations, for what have we not heard up through time, especially last summer? All the parties called for a big debate on drugs. It was requested that concrete action be taken to address the problems of drug care. When one of the political parties in this house initiates such a work, invites a wide-ranging debate, to go concretely and in depth on each proposal, I am very disappointed on behalf of all the drug users of the country that you do not venture into the debate that you have called for over several years and through several summers. I think it's a shame. So what the representative Vedum says is that you want to take the proposals with you. But there is no obligation. There is no obligation! Saying that you should bring a proposal in a suitcase does not commit anything. Making concrete decisions on the proposals under consideration today would have been much more binding. You could start a completely different work at a much earlier time and get a much greater intensity in the work to help all those addicts who need help so badly. I have even since I entered the Stortinget in 2005, used the summers to meet drug users on the streets and around the country. I have met relatives and visited the various treatment institutions. One of the major problems, as the proposal draws it up, is that there is very little coordination and interaction. In fact, many are calling for many of these proposals that are being promoted today. There has been a unanimous desire from all these camps, both on the user side, on the treatment side and on the family side, to have many of these decisions made. Then it is extra disappointing that the Storting is not willing to make decisions. I think that's a pity, because I should have wanted the other parties, and especially the government parties, to think about one more time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2956	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 13th@item: inlistbox [[Footage, see page 3818]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2973	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that there are no replications after the individual posts, and that those who have to sign on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e2980	This concerns a representative proposal from the Christian People's Party on increasing efforts to prevent drug abuse through zero tolerance for drug trafficking, the cessation of drug injection rooms and increased commitment to overall prevention work. In the context of the debate on injection rooms, an overall committee has referred to the suspension of the spray rooms law, which was discussed at Odelstinget last Wednesday, where the respective parties’ positions are set out. Otherwise I would say that I think the proposal of the Christian People's Party contains a lot of good about prevention. Prevention must be an important part of drug policy along with treatment, follow-up and creating a framework for a worthwhile life. There is an overall committee that agrees with the need for escalation in the field of drugs and that increased efforts to prevent them must form an important part of this. Stepping up in the drug field was also a topic discussed by the Committee. in connection with the budgetary position last year, where it includes, inter alia: agreed to extend the grace period beyond 2010. In this case, two proposals are included in the Committee's recommendation. One proposal, I, on a stronger commitment to overall drug treatment and follow-up to the 2010 State budget, is the whole of the Committee behind it. II of the Recommendation, to increase Norwegian efforts in international drug work and in the work on the WHO global alcohol strategy, is promoted by all parties except the Progress Party. There are three minority proposals, two from the Right and Christian People's Party and one from the Christian People's Party. I expect that the minority itself will justify its proposals in the debate. I will carefully comment on one of them, proposal No. 2, on zero tolerance. We've been skeptical about initially going into a zero tolerance proposal because we've been in doubt about what to have zero tolerance to. But we are of course for the sale of drugs to be banned, as it is, and that must mean zero tolerance for drug sales. The Committee also believes that there is a potential to do more to prevent the introduction, transport and sale of drugs, that this must be a priority area, and that, in particular, resources should be put in place to prevent recruitment in relation to schools, youth services and other places of residence for young people, and that good dialogue between health authorities and judicial authorities is important here. On that basis, I ask the proposers to look at the possibility of re-representing proposal No. 2 to a transmission proposal. In that case, we will support the transmission to the Government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3001	In this case, the Christian People's Party promotes six proposals with the intention of bringing about a better care for drug users in Norway. First of all, I would like to refer to the overall proposals of the Progress Party on Drugs, a proposal that addresses the prevention side, the treatment side, rehabilitation and habilitation, the social economy part and the important social inclusion part – back to society for drug users. The proposals address all groups of alcohol and drug addicts and provide comprehensive care, with individual focus. Then I will explain why we support only parts of the proposals of the Christian People's Party. The following proposals are proposed: ‘The Government is asked to ensure that a zero-tolerance line is implemented at national and permanent level against all forms of drug trafficking.’ Of course, the Progress Party agrees with zero tolerance to all forms of drug trafficking, but we would point out that there is no stopping illicit drug trafficking only through decisions in this Chamber. Drug trafficking is, as far as I know, prohibited and has been so for at least 40 years. In order for the Storting to maintain its legitimacy through this type of decision, it must be followed up in practice. Time and again, the Progress Party has made proposals to increase appropriations for both the police and customs to combat organised crime and drug trafficking, without any political parties supporting our proposals. It is only through this type of active fight against organised crime that these activities can be stopped. Then, of course, we are aware that there are many other considerations that need to be taken into account and a lot of prevention needs to be carried out. Furthermore, proposals for ‘prevention and drug-freedom are being implemented as the main principles of Norwegian drug policy’. We must not forget that care for rusher has many dimensions, and although everyone has the intention that prevention and drug-free treatment should be taken into account, we political parties and people must relate to the world in which the drug addict is located, and that many will never be able to become drug-free. The number of drug addicts available is of greatest importance. Diverging treatment provision on the basis of criteria that drug-free treatment is the basis for treatment, as the Christian People's Party is doing here, will not only reduce the capacity of society to provide help, but lead to many heavy drug addicts falling on the outside of any offer. Should we also ban LAR treatment? For that treatment is not exactly what we can call restless. Further proposals are being made to prohibit spray rooms. The propulsion batch has been and is positive for injection rooms. Drug injecting is one of many services that society should provide to one of the weakest groups in society. It gives security to the opiate addict, and the offer gives some dignity. It is sad that the Christian People's Party wants us back to the millennium with the overdose deaths we experienced then. I almost have to ask: where is the next love in the Christian People's Party when you want to throw the users of the spray room on the street? Because if you take this offer away, the street is the alternative. Finally, for those opiate addicts who use this offer, prayers are not the answer and the best option.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3023	Drug use and drugrelated crime are one of the biggest and most serious problems in today’s society. It is very complex, because it is both a medical, social and, to some extent, a criminal problem. It is tragic for the individual addict, who reduces their opportunities for education and work and the ability to take an active part in society. In recent years, a practice has developed to accept the use and possession of drugs. Some places are sold and used openly. This is why it is time for us to take a clear approach to drug policy. Right will have zero tolerance on drugs. The number of addicts no longer increases as much as in the past, and the number of overdose deaths has decreased in the last three years. It is nevertheless very tragic for those affected. The new challenge is that more addicts who die from an overdose have never been in contact with the treatment device. Young and often socially well-adapted young people are starting their drug abuse as an alternative to alcohol use. The drugs problem concerns us all. They hit many people, families and their surroundings. In addition to the many human tragedies and the social and health consequences of the abuse, the problems create insecurity in everyday life for most people. It is important to maintain the long-term objective of drug policy: a society free from abuse. The failure of everything in the fight against drugs must not lead us to abandon this objective. A civilised and humane society cannot allow human beings to go down without trying to prevent it. Some claim that experimentation with drugs is the result of our freedom of choice. But when addiction to drugs is there, there is no longer any free choice, either for dependent parents or siblings or for those with parents who are drug addicts. A society shall facilitate our development and personal freedom for development and growth. However, it is necessary for a democratic society to limit and combat what violates the freedom of individuals and the environment. Everyone has the right to a worthy life. So society has to set some limits. It is important to have knowledge of what is happening in the different youth cultures. Youth is seeking identity and community, and it will often be central to the choices they make. Young people do not just participate in their own environments. Identity and belonging are built on the arenas in which we all participate. It is therefore a shared responsibility to form countercultures, to build up attitudes towards drugs and to hinder the availability of illicit drugs. Significant human and financial resources are being invested in prevention today. A key tool is to take care of and strengthen the drugfree environment. Prevention of drug abuse is also about creating good growth conditions for children and young people. If we are to be able to succeed in the prevention work, cooperation between the various departments needs to be strengthened and the various measures need to be better coordinated. As parents and engaged citizens, the idea is that our children are going to start experimenting with drugs a little of what we fear the most. I don't want 14–15-year-olds to know that there are places where they can easily buy drugs. I don't want the schoolyard to be a drug marketplace. I want young people to experience that adults are setting limits on drugs. We're going to care about those who are addicted to drugs, and help to ensure better quality of life. Those with drug problems should be given help for treatment and weaning and opportunities for a new chance of a drug-free life. For this reason, the Right has contributed to providing drug-dependent patient rights and to escalating drug treatment appropriations significantly in its alternative budgets, including during the period when we were in the Cooperative Government. We have also increased the number of treatment sites for medically assisted treatment. It is also important to ensure good post-employment protection, to ensure that they are given employment measures and opportunities, as well as good housing opportunities. But the most important thing is to prevent the recruitment of young people into the drug environment. I'm not picking up any injection rooms right now. We dealt with that the other day, so I don't want to get into it. But I would also like to praise the Christian People's Party for addressing this issue and for talking a lot about the prevention of drug abuse. I think that's important. Otherwise, the representative Mr Tegen referred to on proposal No. 2 could be converted into a transmission proposal, and it is the Right and Christian People's Party agreed to do. In addition, I mention proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3051	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3054	There is a great need for action in the field of drug policy, and there is an overall increase that it believes. The Christian People's Party is concerned that we are united on what will form the basis of drug policy. That is why we have proposed that abstinence should continue to be the starting point. More proposals from the Government in the last few months might doubt that. We have recently had proposals for a permanent law on injection rooms to deal with and, in my opinion, it contributes to maintaining abuse rather than combating it. In recent years, millions of dollars have been spent on this. This money could have been spent on others and, in the view of the Christian People's Party, better measures, which benefited all drug addicts, measures that had at the same time signaled that the goal was to help get out of the abuse and the demanding life as addicts. Just one comment to the representative Fredriksen: I hope that next love will not be measured if we say yes or no to injection rooms. It is also the case that the evaluation of injection rooms shows that the number of overdose deaths has not fallen at all after injection rooms. There is also some reason why we believe that it is not a good solution to make these permanent. Heroin on prescription has been another measure on which the Government has initiated a debate. There may also be doubts as to whether abstinence is the goal of treatment. The Rusmis users’ association states quite significantly that measures not aimed at drug-free treatment have the following messages: "We don't believe in you. We don't think you can get out of it. Come here, and you can continue to do what's keeping you down." Many drug addicts experience debilitating attitudes from auxiliaries and demand attitudes that say: We have faith in you. Some people have to believe that you can fix your life without a rush, until you actually fix your life without a rush. Public drug trafficking has been a growing problem in recent years. It's very unfortunate. The Oslo section is concerned and refers to the recruitment process. Sweden is a country we can compare with. There is zero tolerance for the purchase and sale of drugs, including small-scale trade, and drug trafficking is thus becoming more difficult. The United Nations drug and crime authorities believe that this may have contributed to Sweden’s good results, where they have lower levels of abuse and far fewer overdose deaths than in Norway. It is a fact that primary prevention aimed at children and young people, and especially at risk, young people, has not been particularly focused or have increased in recent years. This is serious, especially given that a large proportion of children and young people have for a long time been exposed to highly visible drug trafficking, especially in large cities. In reality, the contribution from the State budget to voluntary drug prevention has only been indexed in recent years. The proportion of funds from this scheme allocated to drug prevention measures directed by the voluntary sector has not increased significantly. In this context, I can mention the regrettable fact, which the representative of Nesvik was also involved in an earlier case, that Youth Against Drugs has not received the badly needed funds they need. I hope the Council of State can take a closer look at this and clean it up. Drug prevention needs to be much more comprehensive and directed at the overall level. From the national level, knowledge-based strategies need to be put in place in cooperation with counties, municipalities and non-governmental organisations. Targeted work must ensure that results are accurate. In Sweden, this has been done with great success in the so-called ANT work. I am pleased that the majority agree to increase international drug work and the global alcohol strategy of the World Health Organisation. It is an important cross-border work. Furthermore, the Christian People's Party looks forward to a much stronger commitment to comprehensive drug treatment, from prevention to continuous detoxification, treatment and follow-up in retrospect, so that we can prevent addicts from becoming swing door spaces that go to new defeats after drug treatment. We know, as has been said in a previous case today, that more than 4,000 addicts are in line, while there are vacancies in ideal drug institutions. This is a paradox.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3083	Is the representative of Bavøy going to make proposals?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3086	Thank you, President. I take up the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which have not been mentioned before.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3093	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3096	Increased awareness of prevention is, of course, a main theme of the proposal for a representative. I myself have been the leader of Aksionuka against drugs, who has run a nationwide campaign against high schools. One of the things that hit me when we were doing this was that the kids who were most engaged were the ones who themselves were the furthest from starting drugs. So at least we strengthened the attitudes of the wider Norwegian youth towards drugs and drugs. It is important to remember when discussing prevention, that the broad spectrum is very clear and separates from the use of drugs. So when it comes to prevention, it's important that, even though we've had leadership positions in voluntary drug work, we have a much broader perspective on it than on how much more or less money goes to the ideal businesses. One of the main challenges in prevention, as I see it, is lack of interaction, for example. in the case of secondary school, between the operation of the school, which is the responsibility of the county municipality, the health sister service, which is the responsibility of the municipality, the police, which is the responsibility of the State, and the work on drugs, which is also the responsibility of the State. State, municipality and state in the example of high school, which many experiment with drugs, cooperate too poorly when individuals experience drug problems. It is also a challenge that too few teachers — naturally, because they are not trained to be drug experts — are able to catch up, with systems to signal that there is a danger here. It is also seen in some of the boarding schools that we have around in Norway. I believe it is important that we focus on the prevention work of non-profit organisations, that we strengthen the broad range of attitudes of the population towards drugs and drugs. It's also important for those who fall outside. But it is not least important that we look at how we use the resources we have, within the main elements of school, police, health. That was my comment on prevention. So it was with zero tolerance, which is much mentioned in the case. It may seem a little strange that we do not vote in favour of proposal No. 1, because we agree with the goal of abstinence, and that zero tolerance should be taken into account. This is the main principle of Norwegian Russian policy. The reason why we don't do that is because of the idea of harm reduction. It is clear that the dilemma of harm reduction is always where the limit should go. However, we believe that medically assisted rehabilitation is a good measure that helps many. Then we see that there are some weaknesses in that measure, that there might well be a lot of drugs and a little too little rehabilitation, and I think there's a cross-political consensus that we're going to raise it. That's why we don't go into it. But we see that it can also be interpreted in the sense that we are critical for the use of drugs, opiates, in order to create a better life for those who are drug injectors today. However, we do agree with the main principle, we agree with the objective that it is abstinence which, of course, is the best objective. The centre party has been against injection rooms, and has voted against it in the past, and we voted for it now in this round. In all cases, there are more truths, and it's very hard to see what's really right. We have had a critical approach to it, but we also have a practical approach, and we see that there can be good arguments for it. I was in the Netherlands a few years ago and looked at the harm-reduction policy there – when you go too far. They have gone so far that they have even started testing ecstasy for young people before weekends, so that they can use safe ecstasy instead of unsafe ecstasy. That's the whole problem of harm reduction: where should the boundaries go once we've opened up? But I think we in Norway have a good balance. We have managed to keep a very narrow and clear focus, but it is important that we are able to land in a good way, that harm-reduction policy does not legitimise drug use across the broad spectrum. I walk past Oslo S every day because I'm a train commuter, and I see the obvious traffic of drugs there. Legitimisation of widespread drug use is a far, far greater challenge than harmreduction policy. So there we have to take a discussion: how can we solve this? How can we do this without the police chasing people around, but at the same time knock down the obvious drug trade that we see every day, which means that the threshold – I think – may be lower for some to get into a drug abuse relationship than if it had been more downgraded in daily life?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3120	I see that representatives Duesund, Davøy, Høybräten and Syversen, through their representative proposal, have addressed a number of important issues in the field of drugs. Let me state that the Government maintains the vision of a society free from drug abuse. The overall objective of Norwegian drug policy is to reduce the negative impacts of drug use on individuals and society. Drug trafficking is and shall be prohibited. Norway shall promote a restrictive drug policy which, at the same time, maintains a fundamental humane approach, which takes care of the weakest and which is enshrined in UN human rights law. Anyone who has a drug problem has the right to a decent life and to meet with respect for society and the auxiliaries. At the same time, prevention, restrictive drug policies and knowledge-based strategies should be used as a basis for drug policy. The government has in Ot.prp. No 59 for 2008-2009, proposed changes to the Interim IDU Act with a view to continuing the law on a permanent basis. A permanent spray room law provides a legal basis for municipalities that wish to do so in order to set up injection rooms. The needle and syringe exchange scheme is not intended to replace prevention and rehabilitation measures, but to complement a comprehensive response chain for those with major health problems and major difficulties in getting out of their drug dependence. The government is working specifically with international drug work. The government has recently prepared a positionnote on Norwegian drug policy. This shall give leadership to representatives of the Norwegian authorities in international forums. In addition to the position note, the Ministry of Health and Welfare is developing a strategy for the best promotion and care of Norway’s positions. This will ensure that Norway contributes to continued commitment and long-term international drug cooperation. International drug trafficking is an essential part of organised, cross-border crime. The fight against organised crime must be given priority. In particular, it is necessary to further develop cooperation with countries that are central to the illicit production and trafficking of drugs intended for the Norwegian market, in order to strengthen internationally the fight against drug crime and to prevent domestic abuse. The escalating plan for the drug field runs – as has been said for several rounds here this evening – until 2010. The plan shall be replaced by a new, long-term strategy which fully addresses the challenges in the field. It is important to build on the experience gained from the escalation plan. Many of the measures are evaluated independently, and I will provide an overall review of the experience of the plan. At the same time, it is important to include experience from other countries’ policies. Both the ANT model from Sweden and the KRAM model from Denmark are examples of prevention models that see the main public health challenges in the context.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3141	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 14th @item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3820]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3158	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of replication after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3165	I am pleased that in this position there is a broad majority of important key support points for the draft representative. It is about seeing the relationship between violence and insecurity and alcohol consumption, in particular by outings. It is a matter of realizing that the individual’s freedom cannot be at the expense of the security of others, and that in the light of this, it must be seen to be tightened up. One cannot unilaterally make decisions in the municipalities that bind up significant state police resources and that also bind up health resources, because of the need for extra weekend effort related to many episodes of high alcohol consumption and late nightlife violence. It's about rethinking when it comes to penalties against those who break the rules. The broad number of committees mentions the possibility of discontinuing on the ground by giving up minors, and the possibility of introducing new measures to ensure that there is no circumvention of sanctions in the event of a continuous change of ownership. A broad majority of the Committee has moved on to a common basis on how to approach these issues. In particular, I am pleased that the representatives of the Committee are also involved in these parts of the position that I believe provide a good starting point for further assessments in this field. However, there are some dilemmas that lie in the setting, which I would like to mention. These are the points where the Right and Left, together with the Progress Party, discuss these issues related to local self-government. Here's the obvious dilemma that I think we're all taking over. However, at the moment it is said that government police resources should not be tied up by unilateral decisions in the municipalities, and caution is given against tying up large health resources at the extra effort needed, at least in the larger cities on weekends – at the moment you enter and point out such issues, it is difficult to see why they are not included in the assessment of whether this should be left to the municipal self-government. The same is true when one opens the door to consider stronger penalties for what I said: persistent changes in ownership and the donation of minors. That's where state law changes are needed to get those parts in place. Then there is not a very good link between that and not supporting proposal III on new state rules for penalties. The same applies in so far as the proposal that the Christian People's Party is promoting, to change the external framework of the alcohol law for opening hours. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02 at night. They argue for municipal autonomy and for the municipalities to set the limit, but in any case there is a limit, and we have set it nationally, here in the Stortinget. So you can't use a principle argument for municipal autonomy if you're too self-governing just till noon. 03. One should then be able, with these other arguments, on which the Right and the Left are also included, and on the basis of the many considerations involved, to consider in more detail the proposal to set a common national limit at 3.00 p.m. 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd. Of course, only a small proportion of the population get more and more problems the longer this donation goes on — most people have a good and responsible relationship with their alcohol consumption. I'm glad that we've come a little bit further into creating a common basis for going into these issues. The right and left are also with the government parties in a note asking the government to come back to the Stortinget so we get the opportunity to look at this. The government parties would like us to have a different setting. We would like to say that we are positive to all the proposals of the Christian People's Party, but we do not have the opportunity to support them – because now the matter is being heard, and it has to be promoted for the Stortinget. [[President clubs]] I would therefore like either to include some wording in the proposal for an assessment – which one would not – [[President clubs]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3180	The President will remember that it is important that we stick to the measured time.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3183	First of all, I would like to stress that the Advance Party is to check the patio, often. And, of course, if people are given excessive alcohol — or underage alcohol — they have to be punished. Norwegian abstinence has always been a means of limiting people’s access to alcohol. What this proposal concerns is forcing all the grounds to shut down the serving cranes at 0 p.m. 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd. This proposal contains no ideas or ideas about wanting to stop violence, it is essentially about abstinence policy. It smells like cheap symbol politics a long way when you claim that one hour shorter turnout time is what it takes to stop the violence. It is remarkable that our health minister, who has shown so much courage in other areas, seems to have an opinion that is more strongly opposed: yes, thank you for free state heroin, but no thanks to beer after 1 p.m. 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd. The life-cycle studies that have been carried out show a completely different picture from that of the Christian People's Party through this proposal. It is true that several Nordics are looking for places to go, but the number of people who say they have been subjected to violence or threats has remained unchanged between 1983 and 2001. So the relationship between miscarriage and violence is not as unambiguous as some people express. When we also know that nearly 80 pst. the consumption of alcohol in Norway takes place in the thousands of homes and not in nightlife centres, this whole idea becomes completely flawed and little coherent. It's mostly young men who fight in the weekends, and it's very often the same people who beat and kick time after time – fight with each other, but also with innocents. This is evident in studies. It's serious. This is pointless violence, and something that the authorities should definitely combat, for example. by providing more money to the police and sending more policemen out into the streets from midnight and out in the small hours. Why should repeaters who are perpetrating brutal violence repeatedly be given a reason for this? That is the question we should ask in this matter. Or perhaps the police could give priority to combating the white drug called amphetamine — which is by no means a drug of peace. The same can be said of other environments that deliberately dip on testosterone, anabolic steroids, etc. to get into battle mode. It hasn't been many years since the Storting decided to tighten up the outer boundaries of the give-times, from 7 p.m. 4:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. 3:00 a.m., without this having helped in the event of outrageous violence in the cities. It is also worth noting that with an early tipping stop, the festivities in private homes – in rowhouses and blocks – continue with the concerns involved. Norway has the tradition in alcohol policy that the Stortinget significantly transfers democracy and authority to the municipalities – local politicians decide within the external framework determined by the Stortinget. By moving the limit from 1:00 p.m. 3:00 a.m. to 3:00 p.m. 2:00 a.m. on weekends local democracy no longer has any real role. The size has removed an important, correct and necessary part of municipal local democracy if this proposal is adopted. Studies that have been carried out show that local populace take this seriously, without unnecessary governmental constraints. 21 out of 50 municipalities have chosen to reduce the turnout time, while only one municipality has expanded the turnout time. This proposal will not only be restrictive for our local democracy, it will also distance Norway from what is a implemented and accepted alcohol policy in our Nordic neighbouring country and in the EU.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3202	I had not really thought that there was a need for a long debate in this matter, but the rapporteur of the matter spent a lot of time arguing for the proposals that the Christian People's Party is dealing with alone in the vote, and that the government parties are not going to support. That's a little unusual. The disagreement is not about the importance of the problem addressed by the representative proposal. It is also not about the intentions behind it, but it is about – at my discretion – the exaggerated belief that new and revised legislation is the answer to these challenges. Former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik said in a reflection a few years ago that one of the things he had understood after many, many years of politics was that the Christian People's Party might have had an excessive belief in legislation as a tool in solving problems related to people's behaviour and attitudes. He had come to the conclusion that that faith might be usefully moderated, for the benefit of other means. The question that has to be asked about the proposals of the Christian People's Party is quite simply: is there a lack of legislation that is the problem? Does that mean that the problem can be solved by changing the legislation, whether it is the point of maximum donation time – from at 1 p.m. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02 – or is there a tightening of other rules? My answer to that question is: No, there are no defects in the alcohol law. It's absolutely excellent as it is. The problem is that it's not being practiced. Or it is practiced very randomly. This problem is not solved by replacing a rule with a rule that is a rather more restrictive one, if any, because the problem of enforcement is going to be exactly the same as it is today. The right, left and right parties clearly share the view that it is the local politicians who have the best conditions to assess the conditions that need to be assessed when adopting local rules. We cannot see any reason why the role of the state in this area should be magnified to the detriment of local self-government. If there is any area where local self-government is ‘to the point’ and where there is reason to bet on just local self-government, it is right here. We have shown in the wording that developments are clearly pointing towards local politicians managing their responsibilities in a way that does not indicate that they need any further indexing from the state. They take advantage of the scope of action they have been given to take on more restrictive lines than the maximum framework established by State law. Then it is a paradox that the Stortinget should in case be of the opinion that one has to change the state framework because the municipalities are not able to manage their responsibility in a reassuring way. Everything speaks for the municipality. I see no reason whatsoever for us to deviate from that principle in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3217	There is a documented link between alcohol and violence. Alcohol is involved in 60-70 pst. of all cases of violence. As times expand, we get more violence – and vice versa. A measure to make it safer for everyone to go out in the evening is to change the external framework of the alcohol law for the provision of alcohol from 1 p.m. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02, as we suggest. I am very pleased that the government seems to support this through a proposal they have now notified that they will send to the hearing. The representative, Mr Bøhler, had a good job — not least in the case of municipal autonomy and part of what is in the document. I would also like to point out that there is a majority in the committee, including the government parties, who take a positive view of the reasons and intentions of the draft representative, as they say. They also ask the Government to come back to the Stortinget with a package in connection with the notified prevention notification, and this goes on the enforcement of the alcohol law. I'm very happy about that. As the government parties are involved in this, I expect that it will happen. Several have promoted municipal autonomy, but in different ways. It is true that many municipalities have gone to the step of shutting down alcoholic beverages before noon. 03. Nevertheless, there must be reason to use the alcohol law, as I see it, to introduce this into all municipalities, because we see such a obvious reason to do so. In many municipalities, the objectives of alcohol policy could be taken into account because strong industrial interests are pushing against the opposite. In many places, this is difficult for local politicians to resist. There's some background for us wanting to drop a stricter rule on gift periods in the alcohol law. More important than municipal autonomy, I think, is that people can walk safely through the city at night. In Oslo, we know that half the population wants to be tightened up. In the vote, it may seem that the Progress Party believes there is no connection between alcohol and violence at all. This could be interesting if the Progress Party would say something more about it. It is true that police in Oslo and in some other major cities in Norway have almost asked the Stortinget to reduce both tipping times and the number of tipping points, precisely because of increased violence at night. It must also, as I see it, introduce more and better controls and stronger sanctions against gift shops that violate the alcohol law. It should not be possible to speculate in breaking the law and making large sums of money because the punishment is low. In particular, this applies to overlaps and age limits. The police also advise on how to combat violence and crime. I believe that the alcohol law can be modified to give greater weight to the police's advice. I am pleased to support the proposal to implement projects following the inspiration of the STAD project in Stockholm, such as: includes cooperation with the sales industry on training of staff in the alcohol law and conflict management, combined with several checks on the sales and serving sites. So a comment to the representative Inge Wohnning saying that former Prime Minister Kjell Magne Bondevik has said that excessive belief in the application of the law may have been excessive in the Christian People's Party. I would like to have him here now, so that we could have taken a little debate about it. It is possible that in some areas it is correct, but at the same time I would like to refer to some changes in the law that have been made and that have just changed behaviour. I think that under alcohol law, it might be wise to make changes. I want to refer to the smoking law, and I also want to refer to the safety belt usage, which is legal. It's clear that in these cases, the law has had a big impact on behavior, which I think can also happen in this case. Finally, I would like to address the proposals of the Christian People's Party, which are referred to in the document.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3243	The representative of Laila Bavøy has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3246	This setting is a sign of a shift in Norwegian alcohol policy. We've had a period when there's been competition to be as liberal as possible, to argue as far as possible for extended give-times, and because it makes sense that there's been a thousand new give-aways in Norway over the last ten years. It's kind of been the wave. The last municipality of beer monopoly is probably soon history. We – my own party included – have competition to have poles in all municipalities. This case shows that it is a kind of a change of pace. What the State Councils Hanssen and Storberget have warned on behalf of the Government, namely the tightening of the time limits, also shows that there is a shift in Norwegian alcohol policy. There is no one who wants to tighten up in the first place, because people and municipalities are being deprived of freedom. It's clear that there's a cost, but that's what I'm weighing up against that 11 pst. hospitalisations are said to be alcohol-related, to say that 47 000 people are physically injured by a full person every year, and that 200,000 children suffer from parental drug abuse. I could have framed that kind of number. When you weigh this cost against the freedom that is restricted for you, for me and for the individual municipality, we in the Center Party believe that the price is right, and that it is good that the Government in this matter has notified a change of law in the direction that the Christian People's Party wants. What's also interesting in the setting is to read where the right position is. I've dealt with many debates earlier in my life with slightly younger right-wing people than those sitting on the committee. The main point of these in the debate was often to raise a rush or something. And cutting down cheap political points about how wonderful it was that the alcohol floated freely, and that there were no restrictions, that this was the optimal goal of people's freedom. But fortunately, here we see a more decent and proper Right, which shows that there is a broad majority who see the challenges of alcohol, and that you can be willing to tighten people's freedom to achieve other social goals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3255	It is important that we focus on alcohol-related damage and challenges, and I am happy that the Storting sees it too. The government has decided to send to the hearing a proposal to reduce by 1 hour the maximum time for donation to the alcohol law. The proposal will be sent to the consultation during the summer. I just want to make a few comments about this, because we get plenty of opportunity to discuss it later. I heard the representative Fredriksen call the proposal an abstinence proposal. The suggestion means that the number of hours you can give alcohol is reduced from 21 hours to 20 hours, so ‘abstinence proposal’, I might think, when you describe it like this, is a little bit of work. Then, of course, I see that this is a debate on the relationship between state power and local autonomy. Today, there is a division of labour between government and local self-government on this issue. It's not 100 pst. local self-government. Today, too, the state has established a framework for local self-government. You can choose to go through the clock. 3:00 a.m. but not until 3:00 a.m. 4:00 a.m. It's outside of local self-government. The framework for local self-government has been added at 1 p.m. 3:00 a.m. The government has seen what's happening in the streets. We have listened to the police in Oslo, Bergen, Stavanger, Trondheim and Tromsø. We have listened to the health services in the same places and say that we should still have a division of labour between local self-government and state power, but the framework of local self-government is sharpened by 1 hour. It can't be that we have local self-government if you can donate until noon. 3:00 a.m., but we don't have local autonomy if you can give up until 3:00 a.m. 2:00 a.m. I think it's going to be too limited an understanding. Then you can say that you could also go further, and say that the box for donation is valid until noon. 01.0 a.m. until 01.0 p.m. 24:00 or until 24:00 23:00. Here, then, a balance has been made between the individual's freedom, the local self-government and the state's framework for the individual and local self-government, and proposes 1 hour of curtailment. I don't think that makes the Norwegian people abstinence, nor does the local self-government go away. In addition, in the consultation document sent out, we will review the monitoring and response provisions, which will be carefully assessed. But I would like to point out that, in my view, the alcohol law already contains good opportunities for control and sanctions. Here I very much agree with the representative of Wage that in this area we obviously need to make the law work better. We have no problem getting the tipping points to close at 1 p.m. 3:00 a.m. So it's going to be a little bit of a shift until 7:00 p.m. 02.00 is an effective legislative change. But the shift that happens in the period that it is allowed, we need to improve the control procedures for. Now there's a lot of work going on here. The Health Directorate is making significant efforts in this field, with follow-up and cooperation with municipalities. Qualification, training, etc. It's a very extensive work that's going on. I agree that when it comes to the STAD project in Stockholm, you can get inspiration from there. However, the fact that the STAD project is inspired in Stockholm does not mean that this field is also not very positive in Norway. Summary: This is a pre-post-fection. The government will send a bill to consult during the summer. The proposal will come to Stortinget after we have had consultations and read the hearing opinions. Then we will have the proper debate when it comes to consideration.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3273	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3276	The reason why I say that this is a proposal that essentially involves abstinence policy, and not a proposal that is aimed at getting broken-out violence, is in fact that the living conditions studies that have been conducted show a completely different picture from that of both the Christian People's Party and the Council of State. A life-cycle survey clearly shows that the number of people who have been exposed to violence or threats has remained unchanged, despite the fact that many more have gone to prison in the period 1995–2001 than they did in the period 1983–1995. This was despite the fact that there was an increase. The relationship between nightlife and violence is therefore not as clear as anyone wants to present it as it is. The same living conditions survey also notes that young men are, in general, fighting in the weekends, and it is very often the same people who beat and kick each other over and over again. These are repeaters that we could take out effectively in a reasonably straightforward way. It would have helped the violence situation in the cities in a completely different way than by setting the tipping time to noon. 2:00 a.m. instead of until 2:00 a.m. 3:00, which you think is the big cure. We've been trying to change the shift time from 0 p.m. 4:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m. 3:00 a.m. It didn't help anything. There are other measures that need to be taken.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3285	The Council of State is, of course, entitled not to dispute whether it should be local self-government or not. The disagreement is well whether it is justified to take a freedom from the municipalities, as the representative Vedum correctly and precisely formulated it. My opinion is that it is the person who wants to move the balance sheet point, who has a duty to provide convincing reasons why one wants to take away from the municipalities a freedom, and why one wants to extend the state's exercise of authority at the expense of the municipalities. I am not able to see that we have received such a justification. It's not very convincing when you go directly from justifying 1 hour of curtailment by referring to the overall challenges of violence and alcohol-related harm, because if you seriously think that changing the timing of donations would be an answer to that, you have to take a little more than a puzzled proposal in 1 hour. It's like neither bird nor fish. No one seriously believes that it will significantly influence the total consumption of alcohol, or that it will significantly reduce the problem of violence that the police are struggling with in our cities. It assumes that all alcohol consumption takes place at public tipping points. That's what I don't know. The belief that this measure to move the maximum limit of 1 hour would have a decisive influence on the behaviour of the Nordics in this area, I think I must be allowed to characterize as being superstitious. The representative, Bavøy, compared to the smoking law. It's interesting in itself, and it could be interesting to go deeper into that matter. But it's the crucial difference that it was a really radical law that went to the root of the matter. Compared to that, it's going to change the maximum giver time by 1 hour reasonably puzzled. I really think that this is a relatively large amount of screaming about relatively small wool.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3298	This is quite funny! Based on what Mr. Inge Wohnung says, maybe we should have suggested 4 or 5 hours of reduction. So we haven't done that. We have proposed to reduce the turnout time by 1 hour in the belief in – or superstition, as the representative on the pay side said – that some of the violence might be reduced. I actually believe it. We saw that when Finland liberalized, violence exploded. I think that if we can prevent anyone from being subjected to violence, and if we can help any children of parents who are rushing, so that these come home earlier in the evening because there is no more to get, it's also important. I'd like to be more radical than what we've been in this proposal, but the belief that maybe we could get a majority in this room by proposing what we proposed was what did not make us go more radical. I'm very pleased that the government is sending this out to the hearing, and it's going to be interesting to see what the hearing bodies say. I actually think that very many, perhaps especially parents of children and young people in the family, will find it positive that this is being proposed by the Government. In the end, perhaps especially to the Progress Party, which in many ways talks about the police in a very positive way: I think it's strange that when the police actually suggest and come and almost ask for us to reduce both turnout times and, not least, gift points, they just ignore it completely and say that it doesn't matter what the police here are saying. I'm listening to the police. Police are competent. I'm never out in the streets at 02-03 at night – I don't dare, and I encourage the closest ones in the family not to be either – but I think it would be safer if the tipping points had closed earlier.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3313	Unlike the representative Davøy, what I am in the streets is both at 5 p.m. 3 p.m. and 3 p.m. 03.30 a.m. after having had fun at e.g. The Dublins here in Oslo. It's part of life. But then we're sitting here as big-time representatives and politicians, and we're going to weigh different concerns against each other. The representative's salary is kind of trying to minimize it, that it doesn't matter at all that we're tightening up our search policy, that we're getting a change in the policy that's been going on for a long, long time, where everything has gone in the opposite direction. It is the many individual measures in sum that create a change in a society. The centre party is strong defenders of today's wine monopoly regime. There are several representatives in the Right who question it. We are strong defenders of having a high level of alcohol charges in Norway. It is easy to find representatives from the Right who disagree with it. We now want to tighten the timing of the check-in from 9.00 p.m. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02, and we have a strong willingness to use funds for prevention. Clearly, it is the sum of measures — wine monopoly, gift times, tax policy, the number of gift points — and awareness-raising work in the population that will create a change and, hopefully, causes the number of people affected by violence, who suffer from parental drug abuse and who are hospitalised for alcohol-related harm. It's so huge numbers. I have a series of numbers here that show how much alcohol costs create for society. All the measures individually could, in isolation, be put into effect by saying that there is little, but that is the sum of the measures that create change. So it's also a little bit interesting to sit and listen to the debate, because the two parties that seem to be the most disagreeable here in the hall are the two parties that say they're going to go to government together. So it's exciting for the Christian People's Party to see if they can go to government with the Right and Left, who haven't taken the word at all, based on the Advance Party in view of the desire to tighten up Norwegian alcohol policy. It turns out in this case, as in very many other cases, that when it comes to the matter, it is the Workers' Party, SV, the Center Party and the Christian People's Party that agree on the main direction of Norwegian politics.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3324	I'm just going to make some comments about this debate that is currently going on. In front of the debate, we in the Government have made some assessments of the knowledge base that we have, to look at the connection between the timing of donations and the amount of violence. SIRUS has carried out an international knowledge summary of the topic, and SIRUS says – as I put it – that all available international research shows that there is a link between the length of a giver and the amount of violence. All available international research shows a context. That doesn't mean that if someone limits the turnout time, the violence disappears. But it's decreasing. There is at least one important knowledge base. As for point 2, which I was in my first post, the police in Oslo, in Bergen, in Stavanger, in Trondheim and in Tromsø – those who are often said to be out there on the street having their shoes on, who know what helps; I think I've heard it sometimes before – we insist on reducing the time of donation from at noon. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd, 02nd. It will work, says the police. It will not eliminate violence, but it will reduce violence. Then we also have some experience from Eastfold – so far. These aren't over long, so we don't have to overestimate the numbers yet. We need to analyse them more thoroughly. So there is Sarpsborg, Fredrikstad and Moss, I think, now that we've recently reduced the turnout time from 0 p.m. 3 a.m. to 3 p.m. 02, and the violence has gone down. Violence has gone down, not gone away, but gone down. Both the representative Fredriksen and the representative Wohnning say that none of the international research results are relevant. What the police think is irrelevant. And what is so far the experience in Eastfold is not important. Wages even say that this is so “puzzle”, there probably won’t be a big enough reduction in violence. But the pay response to this is no proposal, no point of view. Well, if international research votes, if the police are right, and if the experience from Eastfold votes, a few fewer will be victims of violence when we implement the Christian People's Party's proposals here. I think that's important.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3337	It is incredible how much one hour of reduction can result from debate in Parliament. Soon we've been on for an hour and discussed one hour of curtailment – in fact, an hour that the municipalities can freely go to the restriction of already today. That is precisely what the Minister of Health pointed out when it came to Eastfold. Yeah, you've used the law that's there. It has been said that based on our local circumstances, we think it's a good idea. And then you've reduced. The same is true in some other municipalities, which according to the local conditions have just assessed this and reduced by one hour. The law only sets maximum time, it doesn't set minimum time, so when you have to be open. It says that between 2:00 a.m. 03.00 and 06.00 must not be given to alcohol. That's in many ways what the law says. But here you say, no, we think this last hour is too important, it's not supposed to let the local politicians rule, where we know best. So we have to take this up in Stortinget and say, "Sorry, you can't give up as long as until noon." 3:00 a.m., you have to close at 3:00 a.m. 2:00 a.m. That's what this is all about. To Battle Violence Vedum: When you challenge the Christian People's Party on whether you can go to government or not because of this hour, I would remind you of a debate we had last week and have had today related to internal disagreements in the government parties. They've almost gone to a distinction between each other. Then I thought this became very special. We remember a certain action out in the lawn here: while you decided the fighter plane thing inside the hall here, the rest was standing out in the lawn and demonstrating. We should probably go down a little bit in ourselves, and to the problems that we ourselves have. The Progress Party and the Right say that it must be the local politicians who must be allowed to decide, because the law is there. It's just not used. That also applies to the police. There are different opinions in the police on whether they think it is very important to cut down on the appropriations in individual municipalities. The councils referred to the big cities. Yeah, the big cities can do that too. They can also use today's alcohol laws to reduce, if they think it's important. I have repeatedly mentioned, among other things. problems related to the existence of residence addresses regulating the care of the elderly. Then I have been informed by the Council of State and others that this is fairly equally distributed throughout the country. It obviously doesn't apply to this one important hour, whether you can give or not. In that case, local politicians are not good enough, so local democracy should not apply, because it is too dangerous.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3350	No pay has had the word twice and gets the word for a short note, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3353	The chairperson of the Committee is right that this debate shows that it is possible to get a lot out of it. I just need to clarify a couple of things. Laila Davøy referred to the Finnish experience with the liberalisation of alcohol policy. I think that, with respect to reporting, is a bomb shot. It wasn't about donating time, it was about a radical lowering of the price level. It's, of course, much more dramatic and has a much, much greater effect than what we're discussing here. Vedum was concerned that this should be an indication of the overall change in alcohol policy. I think that, with respect to reporting, is an exaggeration. He referred to the wine monopoly. The centre party has been a hot follower of increasing the number of pole sales. I don't have the impression that you didn't intend to reverse it or stop doing it. Finally, of course, the Council of State is right in that there is a connection. The only question is, what is the relationship? The research results do not at all speak for the benefit of the fact that moving the limits one hour has any dramatic effect. Research cannot be used in this way. Then you abuse it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3362	The debate on substance is closed. 15 is over. [[See page 3821]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3379	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3388	After almost four hours of drug and alcohol debate, which is very engaging, it is now time to talk about rehabilitation. This is the subject of this proposal. The proposers argue that the purpose of habilitation and rehabilitation is to give people affected by injury, disease or disability a new opportunity to master everyday life and to participate in social life and work, while reducing the need for healthcare and social security services. Furthermore, several studies indicate that there is a need for much better provision both at municipal level and in the specialist health service. The proposers therefore believe that it is alarming when the number of days of treatment in training institutions has been reduced by nearly 54 000 under the government of Stoltenberg, while the need for rehabilitation is actually increasing. A Health and Welfare Committee as a whole expressed its opinion in its Budgetary configuration S. No. 11 for 2006–2007 that the next major health policy area should be habilitation and rehabilitation. This considers that the proposers must take the form of an obligatory stepping-up plan with earmarked means which ensure better capacity and quality of the offer. The majority of the Committee – The Advance Party, the Right, the Christian People’s Party and the Left – point out that on many occasions the professional communities and patient organisations have expressed themselves critical of the government’s lack of commitment in this important area, and believe that the expectations of the ‘National Strategy for Habilitation and Rehabilitation 2008–2011’ have gradually changed to great frustration and disappointment. When more and more people fail to fulfil their rights and the need is increasing, it shows that the cross-policy objective of offering it to all those who need it is not being achieved. In order to increase research and technical development efforts, the Committee will channel funds for research and development of competences both to the primary health service and to the specialist health service, but also to private and private/ideal actors in this field. In the report on nationwide supervision of child habilitation services, in 2006, the Health Inspectorate revealed significant aberrations and weaknesses in four out of five municipalities. There are also large geographical differences in treatment provision. The Committee therefore considers that the organisation and financing of these services need to be modified in order to ensure the equivalence of offers. The Committee is committed to maximising the use of all rehabilitation capacity that meets the applicable quality requirements, whether public, private or private, and to adapting quality and quantity to the needs of users. A majority of the opposition parties consider it critical that training institutions throughout the country still operate with reduced capacity, and that many actors have had to put down whole or part of the offer at a time when more and more patients are lacking an offer. The Committee also points out that diabetes and COLS are areas of action with their own plans, but the opposition parties point out that the government has only slightly followed up the plans financially. The growing need is not met sufficiently by fresh means and by increasing the number of places but by deprioritising other groups. The Committee is aware that more patients now have to pay for the rehabilitation work themselves, which helps to reinforce social health differences. The opposition parties also address the need to increase the number of treatment trips abroad, and will allow patients with a special need for escorts and, where required by the treatment institution, to have a companion with them. The opposition is of the opinion that private and private non-profit institutions cannot be regarded as complementary, but must be regarded as part of the ordinary public treatment offer, and sees it as unfortunate that health enterprises have a double role as buyers and performers of the same services. They also believe that a new financial instrument must be put in place. Today’s funding system leads to different practices and varying follow-up and offers in municipalities, and the opposition parties therefore believe that rehabilitation should be funded by the State. The opposition suggests that the government’s arrangements for the municipal sector are now leading to a worse economy and a lower risk of an even worse rehabilitation offer, while the members of the government parties consider the opposite. I expect the government parties themselves to explain their own comments. As long as the opposition has a majority in the committee, the proposals that lie there are the voting. I would point out that paragraph 4 and paragraph 9 of the proposal for a decision are identical. Now it's the way that good suggestions can be repeated, but there's nothing wrong with us deleting point 9, so we don't have to vote over it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3411	In the previous debate, it was about listening to both police and other agencies, but we sitting on the back bench in the hall here, have listened to the Battle of Janitsjar Orchestra, and that was just good music. Government Parties will indicate that the objective of the plan related to rehabilitation and rehabilitation shall be to ensure that all affected by disease or disability are helped to improve or maintain the best possible level of functioning. The Committee sees it as contributing to improving the quality of life and independence of individual patients and their relatives. At the same time, a commitment to habilitation and rehabilitation will facilitate the active participation of more people in working and social life and help to reduce the need for health and care services. The contingency plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation shall ensure a better offer to all patient groups, irrespective of their occupational relationship, age, diagnosis and gender. Earmarked means of strengthening this area must be ensured. It is important to increase research and professional development efforts, so that treatment provision is more knowledge-based, high quality and cost-effective. Research and development resources need to be channelled to the primary health service and to the specialist health service, but also to private and private non-profit actors in the area. I agree with the proposers that there has been a significant increase in the overall allocation of healthcare in recent years and that the number of patients treated is increasing. More resources have never been used in rehabilitation and rehabilitation in the past. Most healthcare companies now have their own rehabilitation services and rehabilitation through outpatient and outpatient teams. In addition, several health enterprises offer occupational rehabilitation. I would also like to point out that the strengthened local economy has helped to enable municipalities to follow up their responsibilities in the area in an even better way, and in addition, more resources are spent on private rehabilitation institutions than before. Government parties will also recall that, after the Bondevik II Government transferred responsibility for financing and ordering services from private training and rehabilitation institutions to regional health establishments in 2006, the appropriations have increased by approx. 120 million. kr. In line with the position of the Magnussen Committee, the contribution of private training and rehabilitation institutions has been entered in the regular basic appropriations of regional health enterprises for 2009. Through the creation of bias in the transfer of resources to rehabilitation services, health regions have been given increased appropriations and increased assumptions to strengthen their efforts in rehabilitation and training. I want to show that there have been a number of conversion projects in private training and rehabilitation institutions in the last three years. The appropriations for this have also been continued in the 2009 budget to support the process of transition and the further development of the professional offer. ‘National Strategy for Habilitation and Rehabilitation 2008-2011’, presented in the context of the 2008 State Budget, stressed that adequate resources should be put in place and appropriate capacity developed, and that user involvement should be strengthened. Good interaction between levels and agencies in order to create overall and coherent services is also a challenge addressed by the strategy. The government parties agree with the proposers that the rehabilitation offer for children and young people is not good enough and that there is not enough knowledge about what is the best offer. Research and evaluation are therefore important. In addition to the development of the rehabilitation service for children in specialist health care through grant funds, it is necessary to focus more on municipal habilitation and interaction between the various services. An action plan for the habilitation of children and young people is under work and will be completed in a short time. We know that there are still user groups that are not offered adult habilitation services, for example. because, inter alia, the competence and resources in the form of: doctors and psychologists are limited. Cooperation and sharing of responsibilities with other specialised health services need to be improved, in particular in the field of mental health protection. One out of five people in working life is out of work. One of the main challenges for our welfare society is to include more people in the working life and reduce the number of recipients of social security. The ‘rescheduling back’ scheme, which involves the purchase of health care for sick persons, is such a measure. The government has already taken the initiative to put the habilitation and rehabilitation field at the heart of the work now under way on a new cooperation reform, which will soon be presented. It is important that the strong growth in the area is continued and that, through interaction between municipalities and specialist health services, the resources allocated can be even more used, both in terms of quality and quantity. Finally, I would like to address the minority's proposal that the proposal for a representative be annexed to the Minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3441	The representative Jorodd Asphjell has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3444	During the last government period, we launched a survey of the need for rehabilitation. It resulted in a report prepared by Sintef in 2005. The previous government also started work on an action plan for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. That work was not continued after the government change. During the current enlargement period, the Right Initiative took on what became a joint comitology note in the budgetary position for 2007, where a Joint Committee said that rehabilitation would have to be the next major focus of Norwegian health policy. It is not possible to see that this has left any traces in the development that has been in the field after that time. It is also highlighted by the fact that every year all organisations working in rehabilitation and rehabilitation have shown their impatience and dissatisfaction with the absence of commitment to what an overall health committee said would be the next major area of activity. In the vote on this proposal, it is remarkable that the government parties express satisfaction with the state of things and express directly that there is no desire to raise the level of ambition in relation to today's situation. They say in this note: ‘It is important that the strong growth that has been in the area be continued’. The strong growth is nothing but the representatives of the government parties in the Health Committee who have been alerted to it. It is true that there has been a strong growth in health budgets, it is true that there has been a significant increase in the number of patients receiving treatment, but claiming that there has been a strong growth in the field of habilitation/rehabilitation, lacks any basis in actual circumstances. Then, in their reasons for not supporting the proposal, the government says that they are satisfied with the fact that the government has already taken the initiative that the habilitation and rehabilitation field is at the heart of the work now under way on a new interaction reform." It's not quite easy for us to deal with, because the knowledge of what you're doing there has only gotten you a little bit, and I haven't registered in the sales you've been doing with the interaction reform that's to be presented when the Storting splits, that rehabilitation has at all been mentioned as a bet area in that context. There has been a great deal of emphasis on talking about the importance of prevention. That's right, of course, in a long-term perspective, but it's fine with little help for those who need rehabilitation. It has also been said that basic care should be taken when it comes to hospital financing and closing it through the municipalities, but it is not motivated by the fact that there is a need to invest much more in rehabilitation – at least I have not seen it this way. Finally, it has been said that in many ways the reform of the law should be lifted, at least undermining it quite vigorously, in order to achieve better interaction. But there is no response to the need for increased investment in habilitation and rehabilitation. So to the extent that it really is a central point and a central purpose of the interaction reform, it's high time we got to know it, because so far it's been a well-kept secret.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3468	I would like to thank the representatives of the Right for this proposal. At the same time, it is a little disheartened that we must repeatedly raise debates on rehabilitation and rehabilitation on the part of the opposition parties. That's because the Government's strategy plan is not really a binding escalation plan, as we see it. A number of patient organisations have repeatedly pointed out the same thing. They call for the real will and visibility of government parties to bet on habilitation and rehabilitation. Let me say something about the organisations' frustrations and invocations: Young people with disabilities in the JRC highlight the importance of point 3 of the proposal for a plan for the development of a more diverse range of services adapted to different patients in different situations of life, including young people. They also see a clear need to provide services in a direction that takes particular account of the youth phase. They have long wanted to establish a national centre of competence for youth and rehabilitation. FO, the Joint Organisation, states directly that they have not re-emphasised the commitment to rehabilitation and rehabilitation in the specific budget proposals of the Government, despite the fact that the rehabilitation strategy identifies several challenges that need to be addressed. The Norwegian Revmatik Association believes that a binding escalation plan should ensure that the capacity of people with revmatism, muscle and skeletal disorders is extended to rehabilitation institutions both in Norway and abroad. Furthermore, they have pointed out that the offer to the revenators has now become worse, because some groups have been completely deprived of the offer they had earlier. The government's response is that the interaction reform and transfer of responsibilities to municipalities should take care of groups that have lost their offer. Actis points out that if the 2007 escalation plan for the drug field had been followed up by the necessary funds, it would not have been necessary to address the drug sector specifically in the context of the case we are dealing with today. Yet they have had to do it. They also say that voluntary organisations are undervalued in their efforts to rehabilitate and integrate people with dependence on alcohol and drugs. The last thing I want to mention is that the rehabilitation action fully supports the need for a binding national action and escalation plan for the habilitation and rehabilitation field – i.e. the proposal presented today. The Cancer Association and the FFO do the same thing. If we look back at the government strategy paper, more probably remember that the government at the time it came was criticized for its definition of rehabilitation. As someone said at the time, now everything has been rehabilitation, even a permanent visit. But we can't, and we can't, call it all rehabilitation. Then it's easy for a government to say that you've done a lot more. The Minister of Health has clearly given a signal that municipalities should be given a much greater responsibility for rehabilitation. Then I became a little concerned, and then I thought about more of the municipalities in relation to today. I assume that specialist health rehabilitation should also be strengthened and continued, and that the municipalities should not take over where the specialist health service has failed until now, or has not done a good enough job. In particular, I am concerned about the institutionalised rehabilitation that is currently in the second line service, and for which there will still be an alarming need. Finally, we are probably all looking forward to Friday, 19 June with excitement. Then perhaps some of the answers also come to the many needs that lie in the habilitation and rehabilitation field, even though we from Stortinget, like the representative, have not heard so much about it so far. I sincerely hope that we will all be reassured, not least patient groups and individuals who are still in line for necessary rehabilitation and rehabilitation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3491	The issue of the size of the national strategy for habilitation and rehabilitation in 2008–2011 is addressed in the context of the 2008 State budget. I intend to draw up a status paper halfway through the strategy period, which will form the basis for the Ministry of Health and Welfare priorities for the last part of the strategy period. This status document will be presented in the 2010 draft budget. Habilitation and rehabilitation are an important field in which this government focuses. Rehabilitation is a broad and comprehensive field, where multi-storey services are necessary to achieve a good and comprehensive rehabilitation process. In healthcare, habilitation and rehabilitation take place both in municipalities and in specialist health services. In the area of specialist health care, rehabilitation services are provided in hospitals, both in physical medicine and rehabilitation departments and in other departments, in outpatient clinics, through rehabilitation teams and through learning and mastering centres. Special hospitals are available for rehabilitation, and private training and rehabilitation facilities are provided. Following the transfer of responsibility for services in private training and rehabilitation institutions to regional health establishments, this offer has been made in conjunction with other specialist health services. Contracts require the provision of services. This means that quality is better than in the past. The number of doctors, physiotherapists, ergot therapists, nurses and sports educators at the institutions has also improved. According to statistics from the Norwegian Patient Register, there were 33,571 rehabilitation stays in 2008. In 2005, there were 32,920 stays. The number of stays decreased slightly in 2006 — the first year after the transfer — but has increased in both 2007 and 2008. Now it is assessed more individually how long a stay should be and which patients should have resided in an institution. Some institutions offer day-care services. Some of the patients who had previously stayed in private training or rehabilitation institutions receive, and should receive, services in the municipality. I agree that it is fully possible to do more in this area. That's why we also have a national strategy to build this field. It is under construction, both in terms of competence and capacity. The interaction reform will have a clear focus on rehabilitation, and it is communicated from me earlier, also here in the Chamber. So the fact that rehabilitation will be part of the interaction reform is important. But the main focus there is going to be on municipal rehabilitation, not because we are going to transfer tasks from the specialist health service to the community health service – the specialist health service is also to be extended in this area – but I think the biggest failure in the rehabilitation field is at the municipal level. Therefore, the interaction reform will focus in particular on the municipal field, and then the status report I say will be presented in the context of the state budget, in particular focusing on the further development of the specialist healthcare service. It is important to say that a working group set up by the Health Directorate has carried out an overall review of the framework conditions of private enterprises in the area of rehabilitation following the national strategy for rehabilitation and rehabilitation. The Health Directorate has issued a report which is now being discussed in the Ministry of Health and Welfare. It's also part of the summary we have to do halfway through the strategy period. Finally, I just want to say that it is entirely possible to discuss greater needs in the rehabilitation field. That is precisely why we are working on expanding it, and that is exactly why the area of rehabilitation will also be an important part of the interaction reform.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3510	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3513	The councils referred to two things in their articles. One was a mid-term progress report on the existing strategy. In it there is no promise of any higher level of ambition, of course it's just descriptive. The second was that the interaction reform would contain something about rehabilitation, but it is linked to the primary health service. Then my question is, have I understood correctly that there is no indication of any indication of increased bets, i.e. that the level of ambition should be raised from the strategy plan you now have, and up to a much more ambitious level? Because that was what a unanimous committee said in the budgetary position in 2007, which has not been followed up afterwards. Did I understand correctly that what he now said was that it is not going to be followed up in the continuation?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3520	There is, of course, an ambition to step up the field of the national strategy. It's important to see that we're actually following it, and then it's important to evaluate what the status is now halfway. So it's important to do a summary based on that, and in the annual budgets come up with a follow-up to a plan that has an ambition of stepping up. So it is in itself perfectly legitimate for me that Inge Wohnung believes that it should have been stepped up even more. It is part of the political dialogue. But there's an ambition in the field, it's in the plan. We're evaluating whether we're doing our best to get to the construction that we want. We assess the level of the budget, and rehabilitation will be an important part of the interaction reform. It will be able to read when the message arrives on Friday.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3528	The answer is interesting, but the source of the problem is that none of those in this field – then I think about the user organisations – are almost satisfied with the existing strategy. That is what was also the starting point for the 2007 unanimous comitology comment, that it was not thought that it was an adequate response to the challenge, and that is why the Committee said together that this is the real challenge for a new main field of action in Norwegian health policy. Once again, I have to ask: does not the Council of States have any stronger response to it than to refer to the existing strategy, and that he should assess whether he has managed to follow the strategy that no one else is satisfied with?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3535	The level of annual activity in the health sector, including rehabilitation and rehabilitation, is, of course, in line with the decision of the majority of the Grand Duchy. It's perfectly in tune with the Storting. It's not like the government here has a level of rehabilitation that is contrary to what the Storting wants. The Government implements the decision of the Storting.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3540	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 16th@item: inlistbox [[See page 3821]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3559	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each party group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3568	Yeah, here it's best to bite your teeth together and keep going. This proposal for a representative of the Progress Party concerns a ceiling on how much each individual should be covered by the costs of the necessary dental treatment. We've discussed dental health several times in the last year, which shows that this is a theme that takes us on, and that we're not in the goal or are where we want to be. The proposers want a dental reform and there is a cross-political consensus within the Committee that an extension of the rights is necessary. Popularly everyone thinks that the teeth should now be part of the body. In St.meld. No 35 for 2006–2007 the future dental service was discussed, and a new law was notified, which we are now waiting for. A majority, the representatives of the Workers' Party, Right, SV, Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, refer to what has been announced in St.meld. No Thirty-five. They also refer to what has been done by the Cooperation Government in the past and which has subsequently been followed up and further developed by the current government. Responses to drug users and to the treatment of periodontitis are particularly referred to. The proponents of the Progress Party will now have a reform. They are impatient and propose that this be done as early as 2010. The left has its own high-cost solution, which I expect them to argue for. The proposal that lies here is good. It provides a good approach to future solutions, but, as the proposers mention, this is a comprehensive and difficult reform. Agreements with dentists need to be put in place, cosmetic and necessary dental treatment needs to be limited, and a need to look at the availability of dentists around the country, which is a variable today. This is a challenge for recruitment. I believe that the rapporteurs will present their own proposal, while the majority propose to attach it to the Minutes. For the Red-Green parties, we want to develop schemes that capture those that need it the most. This is in line with St.meld. No 35, where you slowly but surely include several groups in new schemes. All three red-green parties have national proposals for dental health that all radically extend today's arrangements. That means that we will move forward in the next magnification period in line with those proposals. This is not what the Progress Party writes in its comment that once a national meeting proposal has been adopted, it will be effective. This was fully demonstrated by the Progress Party a few weeks ago when we here in the Chamber debated this with active death aid, which had been adopted at their national meeting just before. In the hall it was said that of course it would not apply now. It was future policy. That also applies to our dental policy. The Progress Party demonstrated this by confirming its decision in Odelstinget just after which it voted against its own national meeting proposal. We don't do red-green. We want to attach the proposal to the Minutes, because we believe this is a good proposal and a good approach. It's an election fight. There are many proposals from the Progress Party in these days. The proposal is very good, but it will probably have to work more on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3594	The Progress Party suggests in the document that ‘The Government is asking the Government to submit proposals to the Stortinget by the end of 2009 for a ceiling on the level of the individual’s own expenditure on the necessary dental treatment, with a view to the introduction of 1 January 2010. The Progress Party believes that there is a need for a comprehensive dental reform, a reform in which the economic situation of the individual should not be decisive for affording the necessary dental services. This can best be done, as we see it, by establishing an upper self-interest rate for what individuals themselves have to pay for dental services that are disease-related. At the same time, there is also a need to improve the provision of dental care to those groups currently entitled to free dental care or already in the reimbursement system. When we want a dental reform, it is necessary that the Department develop criteria for necessary and sound dental treatment, distinguishing cosmetic and disease-related treatments, and that a contract be established between the authorities and the Norwegian Dental Association related to reimbursement tariffs and other framework conditions for a dental reform. We don't necessarily have to reinvent the powder. Sweden has implemented this type of scheme and thus has experience in this area. It is high time that disease in the oral cavity is equated with disease in the rest of the body. There is an artificial distinction in the Norwegian health system between the treatment of dental and other health services. All other health services are eligible for reimbursement. We are all aware of the problems of today’s situation in Norway for those who have major problems with their teeth and with disease in the oral cavity. The current price level in Norway is too high. This has many consequences: self-image is weakened, many isolate themselves and avoid looking for a job. I have had conversations with people who have had periodontitis and who have certainly believed that this was the main reason why they were not working. Approximately 3000 Norwegian dental patients go abroad every year to different treatments — from treatment for periodontite to implantation. There are many pages that could have been mentioned, but I will mention in particular the follow-up that the elderly get. The lack of knowledge and competence in the states is great, and we as a nation have a job to do. The wonderful thing about this matter is that both the Workers' Party and the Socialist Left Party have decided at their respective national meetings in spring to support such a dental scheme as this representative's, and then it's strange that you go out high on the track and in the media and want a dental reform. Yes, the Socialist Left even went so far as to promote an interpellation in which a wish for dental reform was warmly welcomed, criticised today's system and received the support of the Workers' Party. It may seem that the old slogan «empty barrels fall most» is really a good description of the government's policy in this area. I would recommend the red-greens to support this proposal, leave the prestige behind and support a proposal that they initially agree with. It would have helped the dental patients, and I guess that's for the patients' part we're here. I don't know if the election campaign was anything less started when the Socialist Left Party and the Labour Party had their national meetings than it is today. I am promoting the proposals of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3611	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3614	The right agrees with the proposers that an extension of rights in the dental field is absolutely necessary, and we look forward to the government providing the announced review in connection with the new law on dental services. Just under two weeks ago, the representative Ballo had an interpellation in the Storting that touched on these questions, and in addition we dealt with a dental report from the Government last year. The main policy response in the main communication was that the red-green government canceled the promise of free dental treatment to all. What the government has delivered over these four years is not $6 billion for a dental reform, but $6 million. kr, not for dental treatment for those who need it the most, but for competence measures. The right has never promised free dental treatment to everyone, because we believe that this would not be a proper prioritization of the health care funds. Right will not create an expectation crisis in this area. For most people, dental expenditure represents an affordable cost. At a time when most people have good private finances and good dental health, and perhaps the best one ever, we don't think there's any basis for going into general reimbursement schemes for these expenses. However, it has been, and is, a central element of the Right’s dental policy that those with low incomes and high dental costs need to receive better public support. Poor dental health can lead to severe pain, problems in eating and experiencing social stigmatizing. Such dental problems particularly affect those with drug problems, sick elderly people and those with mental health problems. At the same time, some people have so low income over time that they have problems covering the expenses of a dentist. The right has strengthened the dental service for those who need it the most, and we believe this is the main direction for the further work in the dental field. The Co-operation Board introduced a completely new self-participating protection system 2 which ensures public support, inter alia: for surgical treatment for dental problems and treatment of periodontitis. The co-operation administration also provided for a significant expansion of lowthreshold healthcare for drug addicts. Dental services for people with high problems have to be designed as unbureaucratic lowthreshold services. This is essential for people with, for example, serious drug problems and serious mental disorders to receive help. Older people and others receiving care services must also be given priority. In this regard, I will end by referring to the Right's proposal for a knowledge promise for care staff, and that better knowledge of dentistry and dental care should be part of it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3633	Right doesn't want public dental reform, Sonja Irene Sjøli made it clear here, and it's an honest stand to go into the election campaign with. That's why I'm not going to spend much time on the Right – the dental status is hardly getting any better – but instead concentrate on the Advancement Party. It seems from the proposal put forward here by the Progress Party, as if no, absolutely no, parties in this Chamber have greater expectations of the Government's implemen­tation than the Progress Party. If you were to think theoretically that, on the basis of a majority decision today, you would have a dental reform up and running from 1 January 2010, that means that this matter has to be handled a lot faster than when the Olsen Committee and its establishment were handled – so unrealistic it is. It also means that one had to negotiate with the Dental Association in order to obtain a type of contract that was binding, which meant that they could have no more than a certain amount in prostheses, which meant that all this would develop through the summer and autumn, in order to be in place on 1 January 2010, and that against a professional group that has opposed that kind of action over a hundred years. I have to say that if there is something you can learn from that proposal from the Progress Party, it is that their confidence in this majority government is breaking borders, because I do not have so much faith in any government that this is possible. That is why this proposal is also totally unrealistic. There's no such thing as a lack of realism in it. It has only one purpose, and it is to be able to be used in the election campaign to trick the Norwegian people into thinking that the Progress Party is especially concerned about doing something about dental health, which they haven't been when they've been in position to negotiate the budget. I don't remember a single time in any single budget where the Advance Party has been involved in creating a majority, that they have prioritised as much as one penny to dental health. This falls entirely on its own unreasonableness. So we've spent quite exactly ten years on the Mental Health Excursion Plan. What S.V. has honestly said is that if we're going to get a plan that's going on and on and on for the balancing of prowess in terms of dental health, we need at least four years, probably more, because the cost level is going to be between 5 and 6 billion kroner. Of course, if the Progress Party had been in position, they would have had no chance at all to do this – no chance. We have a long case map with this kind of proposal from the Progress Party. I've seen that we'll come to the Capio Center later, and then we can likewise analyze the content of that proposal. Unfortunately, some people are being tricked by this kind of proposal. But for us, it's important to make visible that this is literally a game for the gallery. Luckily, I would say, the gallery is not very close to full, so I guess that doesn't make a sinful impression.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3646	The Christian People's Party believes that a dental reform is important. We need a protection against high dental costs. A current level estimated by the Christian People's Party is reimbursement for expenses above NOK 3000 in one year, and costs between NOK 3000 and NOK 15 000 are covered by the sum of NOK 50. Expenditure of more than 15 000 kroner is fully covered. Our assessments in this area are pretty similar to Left's. But in any case, the level of expenditure coverage should be assessed further, and the Christian People's Party has not taken the final decisions. Very many drops to go to the dentist because they can't afford it, and of course this can lead to major problems. Many elderly people with disabilities are at risk of poor dental health. Many of these today offer dental treatment without paying, but that right is attached if they receive public health and care services. Thus, older people who care for their relatives are not included. We have had proposals for this earlier in the context of the notification of care, but we have not received a majority in favour. Mentally ill and drug addicts are also groups that have very exposed dental health. There seems to be a cross-political consensus on putting in place important changes in the dental field. Following the election, it is necessary to make proposals to this effect, whether it be the autumn of 2009 or later. It is also important to put in place a refund system that is manageable and that does not involve a large bureaucracy to manage but covers expenditure that is absolutely necessary and that covers expenditure so that social inequalities in health are not maintained.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3657	I shall come back to the proposal made by the Left in this matter. But first I would say that health funding in Norway is now characterized by – one might say – a large hole, that the teeth are not treated in line with other parts of the body. If someone has a broken finger, the treatment is free, but if someone has a broken tooth, you have to turn up for the treatment yourself. So in the left we mean that it shouldn't be. We in the Left have been concerned about this problem, and at our national meeting we also adopted a programme in which we state in principle that dental treatment should be publicly funded in the same way as other health care. But it's clear, as the representative Ballo was about, that it's not just pinching his fingers to get it solved, it has to take some time. In any case, we know that dental treatment is too expensive. Most of us can afford some dental examinations, but there are groups that don't have them, and often they have the same needs. Bad dental health is socially stigmatizing and can make it difficult to get a job. Either a choice to borrow to cover dental treatment or a choice to drop a dentist, it's only a negative economic effect for the person who's on the frame. Therefore, groups with weak economies such as minimum pensioners, long-term beneficiaries of social assistance, chroniclers and drug addicts must be given priority. The left will go ahead of 2013 to expand the public-funded dental treatment so that several groups are fully funded for dental treatment. In addition, all Norwegian citizens shall be covered by a high-cost protection, which prevents people from paying unreasonably large amounts of necessary and extensive dental interventions. We can't do so much with dental frights, but we can at least prevent people from going to the dentist for financial reasons. As I said, we've put forward an own proposal that I'm going to raise, and it's a so-called high-cost protection, so that the public covers 50 pst. of the necessary dental costs between 3000 and 15000 kroner a year and 85 pst. of costs exceeding NOK 15 000. I am therefore addressing this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3672	The representative Gunvald Ludvigsen has thus taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3676	We had a debate on these issues on 3 June in connection with an interpellation by the representative of Ballo. I don't intend to repeat what I said then, but just briefly sum up that what is the Government's policy in this area is that we have now received a clear order from Stortinget through the settings given to St.meld. No 35 for 2006-2007. The approach angle in that message is that you have to start with those who need it the most. There are clearly some groups that today really need increased public support for dental treatment, and that is where it is most important to start. It is not true that the government parties do not have an ambition to implement what is the government party programme for the next majority period, but what is true is that there is more than enough to do now, and there are many tasks that lie there before the debate on the roof is the most important discussion. Of course, it is said that the three governmental parties that form the government today will win the elections in the autumn, on the basis of the programmes that the three parties have now adopted, that a main theme in the next discussion on government statements will have to be the introduction of a roof. There are many challenges to it both technically, politically and financially. I have, during the evening, been looking for an opportunity to say that I fully agree with the representative, Ballo, and now I found it! It is quite obvious that with regard to the idea that the representative of Ballo has of implementing such a major reform as a roofing mechanism will be, I think it is very easy to look at other major promises we have made in recent years, both the implementation of the old-age plan and, perhaps, in particular, the Roadmap for Mental Health. The Storting has adopted a policy where it is more than enough to work with for the Government per. today. Then it remains to be seen election results and government formation and government declaration before we get the final order on what will be the content of the next major reform, the dental reform, as it is likely to be.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3689	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3692	We may have greater faith in the Government than the representatives of Ballo, but I fully accept that. The background that I take the word, is to help the representative Ballo a little bit with the memory. It was the Progress Party that went in for, among other things. extending the reimbursement scheme for periodontitis, which has occurred in recent years, and which has just had a positive impact on persons with oral diseases. It was the Progress Party that got through and negotiated!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3699	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 17. [[Fooding, see page 3822]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3716	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3725	Today we are considering a draft representative from the Progress Party – Innst. S. No 353 for 2008-2009 — introducing a new national standard of treatment for neck injuries in accordance with the WHO Convention ratified by Norway. An overall committee shares the intention of the proposers to ensure that patients affected by neck length injury are diagnosed rapidly and correctly, well-treated and followed-up. Many patients affected by neck lengths may suffer significant health problems and a unanimous committee considers that there is a need to strengthen the treatment provision for this patient group. Furthermore, a joint committee says that the provision of Norwegian healthcare should be consistent as far as possible with recognised international guidelines. The Committee also refers to an inter-pelling debate on the offer of neck length damage on 8 January of this year, where the Council of State stated that the Health Directorate considers the offer of treatment and diagnosis of neck length injury in Norway to be sound and in line with the offer in comparable countries. The Committee welcomes the fact that there has been both a meeting and that a second meeting will be held between the Directorate-General for Health and the Landsföreningen För Neckslängde on the provision of treatment for this patient group. The majority of the Committee, with the exception of the Advance Party, asks the Government to ensure that healthcare has up-to-date knowledge of the international development of treatment provision for patients with neck length injuries. I expect the Progress Party will explain its vision. Two proposals have been made in this matter. It's one from the government parties and the Progress Party, and one from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The background to the fact that the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left cannot fully support the proposal of the Government Parties and the Advance Party, and therefore promote their own proposal, is that we are very uncertain about what the words «injury», «light» and «insurance» in the majority proposal mean in this context, where there is talk of WHO's guidelines for diagnosis, treatment and follow-up. Neither the Party of Advancement nor the Government parties have been able to explain it, despite numerous calls. But it is possible that during the debate we will have a clarification of what lies in this. So the Right Party, the Christian Party and the Left are promoting a proposal where we: ‘by the Government, ensure that all parties relating to neck injuries must comply with the WHO guidelines by using ICD-10 coding and ICF when using DRG; [[diagnosis-related groups]] I take up the proposal from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3746	The representative of Sonja Irene Sjøli has taken up the proposal she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3749	First, I would like to thank the President-in-Office for a very clear statement. It was comprehensive of what happened in the committee. The proponents of the Progress Party – and in particular I would like to highlight the representative Fredriksen – have engaged in a slightly different kind of matter than we traditionally have in the Committee. I want to commend Fredriksen for his commitment and an insight into a topic that might be a little unknown to us in the committee. In principle, we rarely say anything about the kind of treatment and the guidelines to be used for diseases, and we should probably be careful about it in the future. It should be such that some people, i.e. the ministry and the appropriate bodies, ensure that the professional guidelines to be used are followed. The working party is in favour of the proposal from the proposers, asking that everyone who is to deal with that system, that is, the WHO system and guidelines, do so. We have received feedback that this is happening, but if that is not happening, it is important that we here from the pulpit of the Great Britain clarify how important it is for those guidelines to be followed. That is why we think it is right to support that proposal. If the guidelines are not used, this should be done at least now. When we choose to vote in favour of the proposal of the Progress Party, it is because we believe that if there has been a mistake – the rapporteur pointed out that it was quite at the last part of the proposal that is not equal – then it should be cleared up where it has happened, for example. in insurance. We don't know now what kind of consequences it has, but it should be that it's being cleaned up everywhere. In this way, the proposal of the minority also covers what we think, and I think it is a pity that we have not managed to get one proposal, where we could be a joint committee. As for the comments that the Progress Party has, we haven't gone into these because they're very detailed and professional, and we don't have the prerequisites for having knowledge to verify. Once again, I want to brag by the proposers, who have an honest commitment to improving the everyday life of the neck injury. They have – and especially the representative Fredriksen – really committed themselves, and this means that the Progress Party will finally be able to adopt a proposal during this period from the Health Committee. I think that's kind of nice for them like this, so we can also congratulate them on it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3766	First of all, thank you for your commendable words! I also want to say some commendable words to the Government, and especially to members of the government parties in the Health and Care Committee. I would also like to commend the Council of State, which in this case has taken on board the fact that many victims of neck injury in Norway have been involved for a long time in poor treatment and follow-up both by health services and other agencies. I know that today's decision will be able to save many lives in the future, and I know that very many people with neck injury are happy today. Having said that, I would like to say that it is also the case that this proposal alone will not turn down all the injustices, but whether we are basing ourselves on the WHO guidelines and implementing them both in health treatment, in damage management and in the treatment of insurance matters and law, we have built a coherent platform as a starting point for good treatment through the ICD-10 codes and the diagnostic system and the ICF rehabilitation and follow-up system developed by the WHO. Furthermore, agreements have been ratified and recognised by Norway through its membership of the WHO. This treatment and code system addresses the patient’s role and needs in neck injury in a much better way than the WAD system that has been used in severe neck injury in Norway in the past. As I see it, it is incredibly important that the implementation of this proposal in the healthcare system and other agencies continue to be followed up internally in the floors and in close dialogue and cooperation with the various patient organisations for neck injury, because the job is not the end of adopting this proposal. It is then the work of giving a better offer to them with serious neck damage begins. The proposal will strengthen patients’ rights in terms of injury and follow-up. It will also bring great benefits to society, with the implementation of the proposal providing a full overview of actors, treatment providers, patients, costs, conditions, effects, etc. It stands in stark contrast to what the state is today, where the lack of structure is great. Persons are harmed by birth, leisure activities, violence and often by road accidents. There is little doubt that in the professional community there has been disagreement on methodology and treatment, under-reporting of injuries and for close relations between the neurological environment and parts of insurance companies. If the proposal is followed up correctly, you have every opportunity to clean up and put in place a regime that is there for the patient and not for special interests. The average duration of treatment for neck injuries in insurance cases in Norway is nine years. For more than 15 years, we have regularly read about unworthy treatment and even about people who, because of lack of follow-up and pain, have taken their own lives. The lack of diagnosis, and the failure to take ISO-certified accompanying images in insurance cases, indicate that the patient is being deprived of rights both in the healthcare system, in the Nav and in other treatment services. The system error itself occurs at the moment you are categorised as an insurance case. The WHO guidelines disappear from the health care system, the Nav budget and the insurance component disappear as dew for the sun and are replaced by the WAD system, which has been developed in such a way as to safeguard the interests of insurance operators rather than the needs of patients. Since I am a little proud of those who sit in the committee with me, I would like to end by quoting Guro Birkeland, doctor, lawyer and secretary-general of the Norwegian Patient Association: ‘If the patient was in the centre, the Norwegian healthcare system would look quite different.’ This proposal puts the patient in the centre. I am promoting this proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3785	The representative Jan-Henrik Fredriksen has promoted the proposal to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3788	I too would like to thank the representatives for once again raising a debate in the Stortinget on neck injuries. I show you, among other things: to the interpellant debate on 8 January of this year. But in the past too, issues surrounding the neck injury have been raised by various representatives and parties, in fact over many years. The problem has been largely the same: lack of diagnosis and adequate treatment for severe neck injury, with subsequent problems not least related to insurance. In the January interpellation debate, the Minister for Health said that the treatment given to victims of neck injury in Norway is sound and at the level of the other country with which we can compare. He would then invite patient organisations and professionals around a common table to review the treatment offer and the current criticism. It can be exciting to hear the result of this consultation, and if you agree on something. I think it was a wise decision to put people who strongly disagree, around a common table. I myself pointed out at the time the importance of the fact that one from the Ministry of Health and Health was also represented in this discussion, not least because the Health Directorate as a professional body clearly disagreed with the patient organisations. There was also a need for empowerment in this area in January. I hope something has happened here, or that you have plans for it. I'm not going to drag this debate long beyond the evening, but at the end of the day I just want to say that I am very happy that this proposal for a representative ends up with all parties agreeing that it is the World Health Organisation's standard of treatment and diagnosis to be used, even if we have two slightly separate proposals on the matter. This standard has also been ratified by Norway, as the representative Fredriksen pointed out. It has proved necessary to specify in detail that it is the norm to be applied.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3797	Just a few comments from my side. To the representative of Davøy: I can at least confirm that we have commissioned the Health Directorate to establish such a dialogue. But I am not now on the stand able to explain whether it has started and, if necessary, its scope. What is now important for me to say is that the government's task is to follow up the decision of the Great Government. So now we have to do it. After all, I share the intention of the proposers that neck injuries should be diagnosed quickly and correctly, as well as good medical treatment and follow-up, and that healthcare should have up-to-date knowledge of the international development of treatment provision for patients with neck length injuries. I'll give the Health Directorate the task of following up on the committee's recommendation. At the same time, I would also ask the Health Directorate to consider establishing cooperation with other Nordic countries in order to reach a greater professional consensus on how to classify and treat neck injuries in healthcare. Then I have to say that when I look at the committee's recommendation, it refers to the concepts of law and research. We have not had this case for an opinion in the department – it has not been sent from the committee to us for an opinion – and to me it is unclear what the concepts of damage, jus and research refer to. In any case, it is a matter of urgency that there are areas of policy that lie outside my constitutional remit. That is why we in the Government must now get rid of the whole of the proposal, and it must involve more departments. If we were to have trouble understanding the Storting's will, we would have to come back to Stortinget and have a dialogue about it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3808	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3811	I can tell you that there is law and insurance. First of all, I would like to thank the Council of State very much for having managed to reconcile opinions, and for getting through this proposal in the Stortinge today. It's the way neck damage has a lot of sides. Now I do not want to get a yes/no response from the Council of State, but I want him to bring something back when it comes to it. A lot of people with neck injuries are weak resource people who spend a lot of their life doing these things. Many of them are treated abroad and use the rest of the world related to treatment. However, they are also refused their applications, and when they are refused, they are not justified. But if you spend money on a lawyer and anchor the decision, you get a reason. Can the Council of State see if there is a chance to achieve a better solution than we have today with the system lying there?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3824	I assume that patients now believe that the Norwegian healthcare system does not have sufficient competence to treat the suffering in question, and that this means that they want to receive funded treatment abroad. If you are rejected at first instance, which is the current hospital where you go to treatment, it is probably because the hospital believes that you have good enough treatment in Norway for the current disorder. Then you have the opportunity to file a complaint for your own name, which I do not have any authority to instruct or to govern. They will then give reasons for their decision. However, I would like to say that there is a reason in the first instance as well – one believes that one has a relevant offer in Norway. That's what's the reason for refusing treatment abroad.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3831	In his speech, the Council of State said that the proposal that the minority – that is, the Right Party of the Christian People and the Left – is behind, he understands the content, while the proposal that the majority is behind, with the long list of equals and differences, does not understand the content of, if I understood correctly. Then we're in the same boat, because we've worn out in the committee also trying to get answers to what the proposal really means, without it having worked out. And the situation becomes even a little bit more peculiar because the majority who support the proposal does not support the premises for the proposal, that is. They just say that you want to vote in favour of a proposal that you are not able to explain the content of. Then I must say that I do not envy the Council of State the task he is assigned to. And I understood it so that the Council of State does not envy itself either. Is that right?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3836	I don't know if I have the emotional life so very committed in that way in the matter. The government's task is to implement the Storting's will, and I see that there are clearly parts of this decision that are likely to come to the Stortinget tonight, which is directly related to health care, and that it is my constitutional responsibility to follow up. When I don't understand, for example. The jus concept of this, I assume that there are other state councils that have to follow up that part of the decision. We have to figure out how this is going to happen. If we're not sure, we're going to get back to Stortinget properly and ask if we've understood it correctly.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3841	I just want to follow up a little bit of what the representative for the payroll was about. It is clear that there are different border crossings that need to be dealt with in such a case as this. When you talk about the piece of jus and insurance, it is among other things. because there are some situations in which the use of experts and who are brought up as experts in some of these cases may be difficult in themselves, linked to the extent of the treatment. My question to the Council of State is, of course, whether the Council of State will now take these border crossings with the others, as has been said here now, so that we can try, at least as quickly as possible, to put in place legislation to use the piece of treatment that lies here, so that these patients do not wait unnecessarily long before a good, adequate offer is put in place.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3848	As I said, any government that tries not to fulfill the will of the Great Government will not, in principle, be in government for very long. We have ambitions to be in government for a very long time, so we have to get to work on the decision now, as it stands. It is not the case that the decision is taken by the Committee. It is a total accumulation that understands it, and thus it is equally binding for any government council. We're going to have to have that as a starting point.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3853	The cord shift is over. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3858	Initially, I would like to congratulate the proposers, who have addressed this problem. It's probably a problem we know most of us, also through people we know, whether it's relatives or neighbors, who've had neck length damage for years. But I want to go back a little bit to the line change between the Council of State and the representative of Wage. I think it's a bit alarming that the government parties don't know what they've gone into, and what 'injury, jus and insurance' means in this context, where we're talking about diagnosis, treatment and further follow-up. I also did not get any clarification from the Advance Party about what it means, and Mandt-Bartholsen was also reasonably clear that they did not understand what this meant either. Nor does the Council of State think I have given an answer to what this means, what it means, and what its consequences are. He even says it's outside his department. So since there's so much uncertainty about what this means, I could imagine recommend that we gather here in the Storting for one proposal. It has been said many times with «injury, candy and insurance», so it is in the proposal, but I could imagine that we are gathering on what is going on in diagnosis, treatment and further follow-up. I would like to ask the Progress Party whether they can support such a proposal, that we gather on one proposal and get a unanimous increase. Because it's not that the Left Party, the Christian Party and the Right do not agree, but I've learned in the years I've been on the Grand Council that it's at least important to understand what you're going to vote on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3867	I will try to give the best possible answer. The fact that it says ‘indemnities, law and insurance’ has something to do with Norway’s implementation of a system called WAD. It is classified in four sections — the most serious cases of neck injury are categorised as WAD III and WAD IV. If you get that diagnosis, you end up on the outside of the World Health Organisation's guidelines. The WHO ICD-10 codes and the ICF coding system are set aside in the Norwegian system, and you only relate to the WAD system, i.e. circumvention of the whole system developed by the World Health Organisation as guidelines for the treatment of neck injuries and ratified by Norway. That's why it's very important that the directorate as such do a job and get it implemented in place when it comes to damage, law and insurance, because that's where the big mistake in today's system lies, and that's where we don't meet our international commitments to the World Health Organisation. So in many ways, if you take away what goes on in terms of damage, law and insurance, you get a situation where you stand on the ground resting. So I want to say that if you want a change in the system that is there today, you have to go to the Right, Christian People's Party and Left for the proposal as it exists.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3872	Of course, the Council of State is quite right in that any Council of State is obliged to comply with the will of the Storting. But I would assume that any government council that is to follow the will of the Storting needs to know what it is all about in order to be able to follow it, and in this case it is in the strange situation that most of the majority who want to vote for the proposal that, according to my concepts, is completely incomprehensible, nor is it willing to give their own reasons or their premises for how it interprets the proposal. Thus, we are in the real situation that it is only the Progress Party that has submitted premises, while the government parties go for the conclusion, but reserve themselves explicitly in relation to the premises. You have to be allowed to do that, but in my opinion you have a sunny obligation to formulate your own premises that explain how you understand the proposal and explain why you vote for it. What is at risk in voting today is that there is a majority voting in favour of a proposal that no one is able to explain the content of. I really don't think that is a special honour for the Storting, because then you will have a significant suspicion that there are external reasons that lie behind, that have to do with political horse trade, and that have nothing to do with the content of the matter at all – and that's not very pleasant. The question here is not which state councils sort the different areas of action, the question is what the proposal, as it is formulated, means. And there's still no one who's been able to figure out what it means, and so what the Greatness's will might be if there's a majority voting for it. The only thing that has been clarified through the debate is that the part of the proposal that is indisputably related to the healthcare system and the diagnostic system is a hundred percent consensus. The second is a majority that's in favour, but no one is able to explain what that means.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3883	It's true that we haven't gone into the comments of the Progress Party. I said in my post that they are very technical and very professional, and we can't verify them. But we're reading the proposal we're making so that when it comes to what's being rammed up in relation to, among other things. insurance, the guidelines of the WHO shall also apply. The insurance shall follow those guidelines and the directorate shall draw up guidelines for that industry. What we don't know is the consequences with respect to the economy, like the right, among other things. the stress in the committee. We still don't know what it's like with the insurance companies. But we believe it is important to have that scheme implemented in those places where the neck injury has a treatment chain. Then the directorate has to draw up the guidelines that capture these things.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3890	I value the attempt at clarification, but I must admit that I didn't get much wiser from it. We – Right, Christian People’s Party and Left – have written in the setting that Norwegian replacement law and insurance legislation are regulated by completely different mechanisms than diagnostic forms, and they may also be changed by completely different processes, and with completely different reasons. My question to Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen is: is it what the government parties intend to go in for, to oblige the Minister of Health or the Government to change Norwegian law on compensation and insurance?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3896	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 18th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3822]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3913	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that three lines of reply be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, the President will propose that those who sign up to the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3920	: In Document No 8:91. Members of the Advance Party propose to include Capio Anorexia Center AS in the free choice of hospitals. With regard to the theme of eating disorders, there is a cross-political consensus that it is important to get good deals. Everyone agrees with the description given in the proposal, that Capio’s offer is good, and that we need a wide range of treatment services for eating disorders. There are several forms of treatment when a person is struggling with eating disorders, and we have received a lot of input during the treatment of the case, and many have shared their experiences and concerns with us. We're all touched by it, and we see the problems that exist. I think I have the whole committee with me when I say that the offer given around, is not good enough, does not meet everyone who needs it, and that it must be closely followed up by us as health politicians. Capio Anorexia Centers in Fredrikstad offers good treatment, and many want the offer. The problem, as outlined in the proposal, is that Capio does not come under the free choice of hospitals, and therefore cannot be chosen by those who want it. Capio applied for approval both in 2006 and 2008 for hospital status, but was refused in line with the specialist health service law §4-1. One of the reasons for the refusal is that free hospital choice is a right for the patient, and not a scheme in which the individual institution can apply for participation. Capio is not approved as a hospital, so they fall outside. Capio applied for hospital approval, which they have not received, on the basis that the requirements for what a hospital should contain are not met. The majority of the Committee, consisting of the Labour Party, the Right, the SV, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, point to the establishment of a national clinical network for the treatment of eating disorders and the professional capacity of all outpatient clinics to treat and follow up persons with this diagnosis. Treatment responsibility should be in healthcare companies, and since the offer is now being built up there, the consequence is that fewer places are purchased by Capio than before. It is mainly Health Nord that has bought places recently, but also here a regional centre will be established, and so these places will also fall away. Capio, like several other good health institutions, does not fall into the free hospital selection scheme because it is not a hospital. This is well established in the proposal, which clarifies that such a link would require legislative change. However, it is possible to agree on the purchase of services, which the proponents of the Progress Party believe is not enough. Another majority, from the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, point out that the waiting time is too long and problematic for those who struggle. They therefore want a change in the law. It is clarified by the majority of the Committee, the Labour Party, the Right, the SV, the Christian People's Party and the Center Party, that now the Council of State must take responsibility and give clear notice in the mission document that the Capio offer will be used more. It is important for us that the diversity of the offer is used to achieve as much as possible and that offers that work should live. This is what we expect to be followed up. The Progress Party, which is proposing together with the Right, refers to what is happening on Capio, and proposes this amendment, and I expect them to argue for and substantiate their own proposals. Capio provides health services that I think all the committee members see we need. The question then is: what is a hospital, and when can institutions come under free hospital choice? There are several institutions that want to become part of the scheme, and it may mean a new view of what a hospital should be, whether there are still criteria for one to be approved. I take up the minority proposal and rather come back with our own argument afterwards.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3946	The representative of Sonja Mandt-Bartholsen has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3949	This matter is being followed today by a lot of people with eating disorders and a lot of relatives. Anorexia is a serious mental disorder, and many young people are affected by this disease in the most important part of their lives, which is of great importance in terms of education, working in the workplace and starting up a family. Many young people, especially girls, but also boys, get the disease, and the numbers are big. Public health services have little been able to provide a good treatment offer, and many are getting tired early and suffer from lifelong suffering. Anorexia is also the mental disorder with the highest mortality. Patients with anorexia and eating disorders are a patient group entitled to a treatment offer adapted to their condition. As the Progress Party sees it, this group has not received what they are entitled to. We also believe that this patient group, in line with other patients, should have freedom of choice in terms of treatment provision. This option must also include private, approved treatment centres such as Capio, because it does not help patients to choose between different offers when the offers do not work or in the worst case makes the patient sicker. Patients often wait years before they get the help they need, and unfortunately, many people never get help. I refer to the many personal letters and to one that came today, where he tells how she feels they are being met in the public health system: «What we met was ignorance, unwillingness, lack of resources and laaaaaang waiting time». Lack of knowledge in many cases leads to patients getting sicker, and it can have serious consequences. Patients are often placed with other mentally ill patients with completely different disorders, and they are then treated. Patients do not recover when they land in the wrong place and are subjected to mistreatment. A recently submitted SINTEF report showed that over 30 pst. mental illness was mistreated and misplaced, and I guess the group we're talking about here today is within that group. What is it that makes patients and relatives call and fight to get treatment at a private treatment centre like Capio? Well, the patients meet with respect and dignity, the staff have acute competence, they get individual treatment and close follow-up, the feeling of a home and not an institution. They are met with patience, they get the test and the wrong, they get a long-term plan, and there are exit apartments where they try to live and make their dinner on their own. It is cooperation with the home and home community, and good results are shown. There are also plenty of results from the treatment period with the same concept in Sweden, where Norwegian patients travelled earlier. There is something wrong when the patient is able to choose treatment in a psychiatric department called hospital but is not allowed to choose treatment at the same level at an institution where the so-called hospital definition is not met. The Health and Welfare Committee has entered the budget at the beginning of the year. S. No 11 for 2008–2009 stated that Capio should be an offer for patients across the country. In Dagsnytt 18 on 25 February, Ballo promised on behalf of the Government that, if necessary, the offer would be made available under free hospital choice. But patients are still waiting. The council saw, when I raised the question in the questionnaire, no reason to follow up the case, and Capio still has a lot of available capacity and no predictability as a result of their not being under free hospital choice. The question now is how long the centre is able to operate without a predictable patient base. The descent has already begun a long time ago. This is not about common sense or economics, because the private offer costs no more than the public offering. This is about politics, and in this case the red-greens have met themselves in the door. It is not possible to maintain private treatment sites that do not obtain patients or long-term contracts. It will not be possible for patients to choose Capio as a treatment site as long as it is up to healthcare companies to decide. I think that's the story. This issue is a good example of the red-green health policy, a policy that allows the ideology that the public knows and can best come before the patients' needs. The eagerness to discriminate between private and public and out-of-state private has shown here what it leads to. I had a little hope that SV would support the proposal, especially after Ballos' clear promises, but this only shows that ideology, control and politics are ahead of common sense and patient rights, and it will be a great disappointment today if the two proposals we are now promoting do not get a majority.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3977	There is a broad consensus that patients with eating disorders are not receiving adequate public health care assistance today. There has been a positive development in this area, but the offer is still incomplete. According to the free choice.net website, the waiting time for daily treatment for children and adolescents with eating disorders is between 3 and 14 weeks, depending on the place of treatment. For adults with eating disorders, waiting time is up to 20 weeks for daily treatment by some health care providers. Patients who require daily treatment for their eating disorders are seriously ill. When we are seriously ill, it is unsustainable to wait for many weeks for help. The right-hand health fraction has received several enquiries from desperate people with eating disorders and their relatives. They tell us about serious health problems and inadequate follow-up from healthcare. Several have pointed out that they have received very good help at Capio. Some have had to pay for this, including: by means of family loans. Although Capio has a professionally recognised offer with which patients are satisfied, many patients feel that they are not allowed to make use of this offer for the benefit of the public. It is unacceptable that bureaucratic barriers prevent patients from using good offers that can provide them with rapid help. But the most eye-catching thing is that Capio Anorexia Centers are among the offers that the government Stoltenberg wants to remove. Both the Soria Moria Declaration and the Regional Health Companies mission document clearly indicate that private, commercial offers should be limited. The justification seems to be a purely ideological defence of the public service monopoly. When we register a certain attendance from the government parties in this matter, there is clear evidence that this monopoly policy does not face reality. A policy where good private offerings are only available to those who have good advice is not in contact with individuals, especially when the health queue has increased by 65,000 patients under this government. The right considers that private services contribute to the quality and diversity of public health services. Many private actors have been pioneers in professional development and good resource use. The private provision improves public health and increases patients’ freedom of choice. These offers should not be reserved for patients with a good economy who can buy out of an ever-increasing health queue. The right has therefore argued that public health services have to pay much more treatments in private clinics, so that patients can get out of line and into treatment. We succeeded in this policy during the Cooperation Government, when the health queue and waiting time were significantly reduced. From the right, we will praise the proposals of the Progress Party, which will contribute to a better supply for patients with eating disorders. When we support their proposal in its original form, it is because we agree that patients throughout the country must use the offer at Capio for the state's sake, by virtue of the right to free hospital choice. We also believe that legislative amendments should be promoted if this is necessary, but these legislative amendments must in that case deal with all corresponding private offers and not just Capio.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e3992	In the previous case, there was a lot of talk about the Storting's will, and that the Government must follow the will of the Storting. I see, from several rounds we've had about Capio Anorexia Centers, among other things. in the context of the 2009 State Budget, the intention of the Stortinge is to use Capio Anorexia Centres and that the sites should be fully used as long as there are no other equivalent facilities available to perform the treatment. Then I register that Vigdis Giltun in particular has some form of rhetoric attached to the reasons why you do not go into the proposal, which I think is very misleading, and which is not suitable for creating clarifications in this matter, but just confusion. What I've said before, and I'm still standing by, is that it can't be that you have to define the business as a hospital so that we can use the places to the full. I also said in the debate that Mr Giltun refers to, that if we were to begin to characterise businesses as hospitals in order to use them, it would be a failure statement. Now we hear the representative Sonja Irene Sjøli say that if you want to change the law and facilitate Capio's definition as a hospital, you should do the same to a number of other institutions. It's been my reason why you shouldn't do that. I've always argued that Capio should be used in full. I stand for that today. I also perceived that one of the comments from the majority of the Committee, from the Labour Party, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left, but which the Progress Party is not in, makes it visible: «Health undertakings must contribute to the use of such offers in a comprehensive treatment offer for anorexia patients.» So I believe that if it turns out that, despite a number of recommendations from the Storting, health businesses do not use places, or only use them in a modest way, the Council of State must help to make health businesses use them. I've said that before, Giltun has heard that, and I still mean that. In fact, it is not the case that health businesses should decide on good treatment services on their own basis. It should and should also be done by the Council of State. I believe that we will in the long term have a national health plan for treatment in Stortingen, where it is precisely necessary to specify what kind of services should be used and how they should be used. As far as anorexia is concerned, I have seen from my own experience that the treatment offer today is generally too poor. The fact that, as far as I know, only five out of fifteen places are in use is critical in my view. In this way Vigdis Giltun has chosen the approach here: I have also received the e-mails, I have also looked at texts that describe their children who are very ill, but who have benefited from the treatment at Capio, and who should have been treated further there – others should also have received it – and then I read what Vigdis Giltun makes himself write to these relatives: Unfortunately, the red-green parties, including SV, failed in this matter. They speak with two tongues, and the proposal they promote will not lead to any change. This is what Vigdis Giltun writes to relatives of patients who have received treatment at Capio. I have problems finding words that are good for what I think about that kind of correspondence, because I perceive that it is so inconvenient to other parties in the Storting and so misleading in view of the commitment. I can't get the emphasis strong enough: let's use all the spaces! If I had been a state councillor, I would have demanded that all the places should be used. But I'm actually not the Council of States, and I can only regret that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4006	First of all, I would like to thank the proposers for promoting this important proposal. Eating disorders affect many young girls, but also boys. Many are ill for many years before they get help. Capio Anorexia Centers has a treatment offer that shows good results. Treatment is based on cognitive therapy and a systematized programme of food, rest and activities. Capio Anorexia Centers are, as the Christian People's Party sees it, an important supplement and is a corrective to public offerings that have been built up in recent years. Unfortunately, it may seem that there is a lack of political will to use private actors as a complement to public health services. We see several examples of this, despite the fact that the Health Committee in this year's budget setting said that the service as Capio is performing should be available to patients throughout the country. Now, when Capio is not included in the free choice of hospitals, it means that patients who need a treatment site, do not get it, despite the fact that there is free capacity per year. today. The problem for these patients is that they belong to the wrong health region. If we focus on the sickest of the sick with eating disorders, they literally have very little to go on. We know that some of these have been helped through the Capio Center. Yes, they have been in public, but – unfortunately – the public has not been able to help them. In an answer to me, State Council Bjarne Håkon Hanssen writes that he has in the letter of assignment ‘asked the Health Directorate to summarise knowledge on the latest research on active treatment models for people with eating disorders’. He will use this knowledge acquisition to further develop the offer across the country. That's good. We probably have to admit to some of us that we haven't been good enough here. The council also writes something that is more eye-catching, I think, and that's that he wants to ‘follow up the compliance of regional health establishments with their ‘care for’ responsibilities towards this patient group.’ I hope that this patient group, like everyone else, will receive the treatment you are entitled to in relation to caring for responsibility. What's important is that they get treatment, but it's just as important that they get treatment that works. The Capio Centre has given many girls a treatment that works. Therefore, the Christian People's Party supports Capio Anorexia Centers joining the free choice of hospitals.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4027	As the Committee itself states – except the Advance Party – in the vote, many good health services do not fall under the free choice of hospitals. However, it is important to clarify that there are no formal barriers to regional health undertakings concluding agreements with Capio if they need to, and that there is evidence that such agreements have been concluded, and there are such agreements today. Regional health establishments shall, in the light of their responsibilities, assess at all times whether the supply to people with eating disorders is of sufficient quality and capacity. If the offer within the public sector is not satisfactory, regional health establishments may conclude agreements with private institutions. If there is no alternative, they shall enter into agreements with private institutions in order to discharge their responsibilities. I also get many enquiries from people who tell me about good results after staying at Capio, and I've brought it with me. In order to enhance the quality of treatment in all health regions, there is a requirement for a regional clinical competence environment for eating disorders in all health regions. These are now in place in three regions, and Health Nord has informed me that they will have their environment of competence in place during 2009. Regional health businesses have also strengthened the capacity of the offer to this group, so that the need to use Capio has decreased. Let me use an example to show that regional health businesses are concerned with their care-taking responsibilities. As I have said initially, if there is no capacity in the public system, make sure that responsibility is met in other ways, for example. in the case of the purchase of private spaces. Strengthening the need to buy places in relation to eating disorders has been underlined by the Department, and we have underlined the need to use available capacity. The region that has had the lowest capacity has been Health North, and they have increased the purchase of places at Capio. For example, in 2006 purchased: Health North not more than 224 days of treatment. The mission document has highlighted the need for enough space for people with eating disorders. Therefore, the purchase of treatment days from Health Nord increased from 224 in 2006 to 822 in 2007, and further up to 843 in 2008, but now Health Nord is building up its offer. Health Nord will in a short time establish a unit for adults in Bodø and a unit for children in Tromsø. I believe that if the professional content of these offers is good, it must – probably – be better for a person from Bodø to be treated for their eating disorder in Bodø than in Fredrikstad. I understand that you choose to use that offer. This will, of course, lead to the use of Capio going down somewhat. Regional health enterprises then fulfil their responsibilities by building up the offer themselves. Then, of course, the purchase is to be made in a proper way, in order to comply with the applicable public procurement legislation. So I would say that Capio seems to be able to offer good treatment to some of those who have eating disorders – not all, but some with eating disorders. Among other things, they do not have offers for the worst. These will need a regional offer, in close cooperation with the somatic specialist health service. So my starting point is that I believe that as Minister of Health I take responsibility. People with eating disorders should have a good offer. They have patient rights. The patient rights shall be fulfilled. If they are not complied with, they shall have, for the first time, the infringement procedure. We don't have any of that. If they feel that they are not given proper guarantees, they may complain to the Health Authority. There is the legislation established by this room. If regional health businesses cannot fulfil their pre-responsive responsibilities, they must buy from private individuals, and they do so, among other things. by Capio.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4044	The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4048	I'll continue where I left off. Then why does the Labour Party vote against the proposal when we believe that the offer should be used, and we boast of it, as I did earlier? The question in the proposal concerns free choice of hospitals. In our opinion, it is important that there is a professional recognition on the basis of which a hospital should be approved, with criteria such as medical care, presence, etc. It is also required that there be an agreement with one or more health establishments. Capio is a treatment institution that treats a sparse group of patients. They are not included in that category, nor do they meet any of the criteria applied in the case of hospitals. An opening for such a type of institution will create precedent for others, and thus the definition of what a hospital is will change considerably. Interestingly, it is the Advance Party that is so eager to expand the hospital concept and to give individual institutions hospital status, or whatever they now want to define it as, after a change in law. It can create precedent. And what did we hear? We heard Sonja Irene Sjøli say that here also other institutions have to come in when the border changes. We support the professional assessments, and we actually expect the Council of State to follow up our remark. We have to figure out how to make the best use of the offer. Because we believe that it should be possible to do so without using the free choice of hospitals. We're going to follow it closely. It is important, regardless of proposals adopted here today, that the offer is being used, whether it is Capio or other offers being built up. Capio is an important supplement to our public health system, and they fill out where we lack competence. We're not allergic to private, but it has to be that we follow the laws and rules that we have to deal with here in the Storting. This applies to the definition of what a hospital is. Accessibility and choice are important, and we will closely monitor developments at Capio — whether health businesses are using the offer, whether government councils are following up on the mission document, and whether responsibility is taken into account.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4061	I do not know whether this debate will be particularly clarifying to those who are sitting waiting for an answer on whether they will continue to use Capio's treatment. But what has been clearly achieved is that the Council of State refers to the need for an agreement. Yes, Capio has an agreement with Health south-east, but health southeast does not use them. Even patients from Eastfold are not allowed to use that offer in Fredrikstad. So it's not that they necessarily have to stay close. Health care establishments are also said to make better use of their own capacity. Ballo also says that you should use Capio as long as there are no similar offers within healthcare companies. In other words, when health professionals build up their own capacity, it no longer means Capio having a slightly different offer, an offer that many patients feel is better helped by – because even health professionals want to keep the patients, whether the treatment helps or not. They're the ones who decide. Jan Bøhler from the Workers' Party had a Christmas greeting to me in December. He said that now I could also rejoice that patients from all over the country would be able to use Capio. Nothing has happened. Now Ballo said that the Council of State had to follow this up in the order document. The order document does not oblige health businesses to do anything. I have previously seen such written order documents, including: that the diabetes teams should be strengthened in Eastfold. The week after the cut board in the Hospital Eastfold, half the diabetes team. Brustad State Council did not follow it up, although she became aware of it. So here are contradictions all the way. When Ballo attacks me the way he did in his post, I believe it only indicates a bad conscience. There are many who have seen the recording from New Year's Eve 18. There are many who know what Ballo promised in that recording, and what he said. Actually, I think Ballo meant what he said. Unfortunately, the policy of the SV and the Government is not such that it can be done. If it creates precedent that Capio comes under free hospital choice, it doesn't matter to the Progress Party. For the Advancement Party, it means that patients are given proper treatment in the right place – not who is doing it. For the Progress Party, it is important that patients receive the treatment paid by public funds, that they do not need to borrow in order to survive. There is nothing to say that there must be a hospital in order for it to be under free hospital choice. This is something that can change. Today, it's called free hospital choice. This is something that we in this room can change. We can add what offers we want under free treatment options, or if it's called free hospital choice. Is this supposed to prevent patients from getting proper treatment? This is completely meaningless. We have an opportunity here to do something about it. Here you sit and accuse each other of being unfine because you've been informing patients about what's real. I stand by every word I wrote to that patient!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4072	When we discussed the dental proposal from the Advancement Party, I mentioned Capio Anorexia Centers as another example of how the Advancement Party was reasonably raw, I would say, trying to take advantage of a situation that is unsolved, in that way trying to create sympathy for its own policy. I stand by my reactions to Vigdis Giltun, because I mean – like her – that Capio Anorexia Centers offer a good deal to anorexia patients. Capacity should be fully exploited. What I have repeatedly said to Vigdis Giltun is that I believe the approach chosen by the Progress Party, namely to define the centre as a hospital, is a dead end. Then Vigdi's Giltun can in a way bemoan that her blindtrack is largely just the Advance Party and a minority supporting, but it does not help Capio Anorexia Centers – just as it does not help patients in dental health that the Advance Party promotes a proposal that is completely unrealistic and that is never going to be implemented. Instead of seeking to suspect others for their motives, Vigdis Giltun might have entered into a kind of dialogue with the government parties and asked: How is it possible to exploit the capacity of Capio Anorexic Centers in health businesses? What does it take to get it into place? When Vigdis Giltun criticises SV for health company law, a law that SV opposed, I must say that we warned against it. We have thought that the Stortinge should decide at the overall level how the structure of the specialist health service should be. That would mean that we had actually decided that these places were going to be used. But this has been consistently opposed by the Progress Party. And now, when they have to taste the consequences of their own policies, they find it opportune to criticize everyone but themselves. I would like to emphasise again: I believe that these places should be used in full, and that the Council of State should follow up on what the Storting has said, in such a way that the places are used in full. I don't know how much clearer it can be said. But no matter how clearly I say it, Vigdis Giltun will never be satisfied – because she is interested in creating the impression that it is she, and she alone, who is interested in these places being used.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4083	Vigdis Giltun has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4086	I actually lack words to describe the behavior that we've witnessed in the pulpit here. We are dealing with a proposal that is serious. For two years, the Progress Party and I – with the support of other parties – have been working seriously to get a proposal that can help patients choose treatment at Capio Anorexia Center. It's completely possible. It may be decided by the Storting. The decision today may be taken to submit a proposal for a legislative amendment which will enable this to be done. Instead of hanging out in the hospital or not, I think Ballo should use his energy to figure out how to get a free treatment option. There has also been ample opportunity in the Committee to make other proposals. Ballo has not come with a single one that could have helped the patients to get this offer. So the criticism I think he gets directed at himself.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4095	I'm not going to go into the fight between representatives of Ballo and Giltun – it's lively enough as it is – but just reminding myself that the matter boils down to a very simple question, given that there is consensus that today's legislation is rigid and does not allow patients to be allowed to choose freely, because they prefer the offer that is probably the best: Capio Anorexic Center. The proposal states that given that there is a consensus that this is desirable, it is no more complicated than a change of legislation. That is what the proposal is about: asking the government to soften the legislation, so that it can be done. It's not actually more dramatic.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4102	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 19th@item: inlistbox [[Fooding, see page 3822]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4119	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – This is deemed to be adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4126	An overall committee notes in its opinion that the 2008 report on waiting times and patient rights shows that the average waiting time for adults in need of psychiatric and psychological services is 53 days. In the case of children and young people, the waiting time is an average of 78 days. The majority of the Committee - the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left - also note that there are significant legal security problems in this area with regard to the offer of treatment. It is enough to refer to the National Audit Office review, which is relatively fresh, and which shows that there are serious variations which cannot be explained by differences in health status in the different health regions, or by differences between individual patients. In fact, in some healthcare companies, all patients experience a breach of the assessment guarantee. Children and young people entitled to mental health protection experience 18 pst. that they are not treated within the medical deadline, while the proportion is 15 pst. among adults. On this basis, it is necessary to understand the draft representative to be discussed. It is simply a question of making better use of the expertise available in this area, given that there are very many patients who do not currently receive their statutory rights. What is controversial in the vote is that there is one part of the committee – and this is a majority consisting of the Workers' Party, SV, the Christian People's Party, the Centre Party and the Left – which claims the following about the contractual system: ‘The majority consider that the requirement for agreements with regional health establishments or municipalities as a condition for reimbursement is necessary’ — I stress the need — ‘in view of how the overall resources of health care should be used.’ We support the proposal, fundamentally disagree with it. An overall committee fully agrees that the prioritisation rule should be based on supervision of all those working in the field, whether public or private, and we agree that good use of resources should be sought. What we disagree about is whether the only way to ensure this is today's contractual system, with all the obvious weaknesses that this contractual system has. The majority of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left have pointed out that it is a paradox that some of the private contract specialists only have agreements to deal with time-limits, while they do not receive reimbursement for the treatment of patients before the deadline has expired. It is clearly contrary to the intentions of the legislation, but it is actually a good piece of work as it is being done today. We clearly believe that today's contractual system leads to a significant restriction on access to services, and if you want to put patients' interests at the centre, all good arguments are made that today's contractual system should be removed. I address the proposal on which the Right and the Advance Party stand together in the vote, assuming that the majority will justify its position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4148	The representative of Inge Wohnning has taken up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4151	It is very important that there is good access to mental health protection, and the Committee agrees that it is not good enough throughout the country, despite the fact that capacity has increased significantly through the mental health and mental health escalation plan. We have seen that there has been a large expansion of both district psychiatric and outpatient centres, and the offer has improved considerably in terms of quantity, and not least in terms of quality. The majority of the Committee agrees with the proposers that there is a particular need to strengthen mental health protection in municipalities and district psychiatric centres. We see that it may be defective both in terms of professional competence and capacity, and that there is still a hole to fill. However, it is also important that the services to be set up around are lowthreshold services, especially in the school health service, which allow young people to easily come into contact with professional assistance. It is important that resources are given a right priority in all parts of health activities. Whether it's within the somatic area, within the psychiatry or within the russian area, etc., it's important that we have good control over how this is managed, and how this is arranged. At the same time, it is important to ensure good coverage across the country, and it is clear that it is more challenging to have good coverage in some counties and municipalities with few inhabitants in our long-term country than in central districts. However, it is important to ensure that patients receive good information on available capacity, on current treatment provision in their own municipality, in their own country or elsewhere. Regional health businesses are responsible for providing the population with the necessary health study in a medical specialist. The services are financed by operating grants from health enterprises, price-fixing payments from the population, and the prostheses from the patients. If patients want a publicly funded treatment offer from private operators, there must be an agreement between the regional health establishments and the specialist or institution concerned. According to the Local Health Act Chapter 4, if the municipality or social security is to cover the treatment, there is a requirement to have an agreement between the municipality and the private health service. The majority of the Committee considers that the requirement for agreements with regional health establishments or municipalities as a condition for reimbursement is necessary in view of the overall use of healthcare resources. It is about how this should be governed – every day and in every area. Then there must be some agreements that ensure good governance with the political priorities and health priorities that are to be done every day in all municipalities in the country. But strengthening mental health protection in municipalities and district psychiatric centres is important to ensure that we have good access to medical specialists as close to patients as possible.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4168	Evaluation of the Mental Health Progression Plan shows major weaknesses in most areas, in which wages were also involved. The lack of professional staff is high, and patients wait for months and years at an hour with a psychologist or psychiatrist – if they get at all a few hours. This problem is not unknown, but it has not been a political will to increase the availability of publicly paid services. As far as the Progress Party is concerned, we have been very concerned about this situation for very many years. I can go back to 1997 and quote John Alvheim, as the 17th of June says to the Stortinget: ‘It is, however, a great paradox for me that, while there is a significant shortage of psychiatrists and psychologists, the Government, with the support of a majority in the Grand Duchy, has been able to take advantage of the so-called contract-less psychiatrists and psychologists’ reimbursement from Social Security, which is clearly in the long term, and in the short term, will make the lack of staff in the psychiatric healthcare even worse than is the case today, and which will have serious consequences for future and current patients.’ So there's been another system in the past. John Alvheim was a predictable man, he got right. Two years ago, I asked the then Health Minister, Brustad, if she would consider re-establishing the system for non-contractual psychologists and psychiatrists to receive reimbursement from popular security, so that the patient can choose who they are going to go to, and so that the need for more people in these professions can be regulated in line with what patients actually need. At the time, there was a notice in the evening post saying that patients were calling about to fifty different psychologists and there were waiting hours in well over a year. The council then replied that she was busy getting to a system that worked in practice. She also said that questions related to reimbursement were one of the things they were going to go through at the time, and then they – I expect it to be the government – would conclude when that job was done. Clearly, the conclusion must have been that it is more important to limit publicly paid treatment hours than to meet the patient’s need for treatment, as reflected in the National Audit Office’s report, where it appears that there is often availability within the individual healthcare provider and not the patient’s condition that determines whether the patient is granted treatment and what treatment is offered. This is serious. Now a new scheme within Health South-East is being tried to help patients to order an hour. But this does not change the fact that there is a lack of capacity, at least as long as patients are allowed to use psychologists and psychiatrists with contracts only if they are to receive reimbursement. It is little socio-economically profitable to allow disease to develop over time. This also applies to mentally ill people. The greatest increase in disability rates occurs among young men, and the cause is more and more frequent mental illness. Waiting times, lack of availability and curtailed offers help make patients sicker. These are patients who need individual treatment, and where the patient's trust in the therapist or doctor is very important. This means that freedom of choice is important, and that the ability to change treatment must also be real. The increase in the number of psychologists as a result of the escalation plan was only 60 pst. of what was the original objective. A lot of psychologists and psychiatrists are missing. The upgrading in the municipalities and within the DPS is not sufficiently close to the tasks they have to perform. By opening up all authorised psychologists and psychiatrists to offer their services with reimbursement rights to patients referred to treatment — and on the basis of what wages also stated — shorter waiting times and far greater options will be provided than we have today. This will help to ensure equivalent services to the weakest and help reverse the major health inequalities created in recent years. It will also inspire more people to train and specialize in mental health protection and lead to better quality and availability, which will benefit the entire community in the next row. The Progress Party believes in better health provision by providing short waiting times, greater accessibility, better quality and freedom of choice. We believe it is important for everyone to be able to use the professional skills that actually exist in the country today, paid with public reimbursement for the benefit of the patients.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4186	The proposers consider it appropriate to provide for a system whereby authorised psychologists and psychiatrists are granted the right of establishment and reimbursement. The proposal does not require an operational agreement with healthcare providers for psychologists and psychiatrists in order to be able to practise with social security suspension. The government’s overall health care objective is that everyone should have equivalent access to healthcare and good health care when they need it. In this context, I would like to refer to a new waiting guarantee for children and young people under the age of 23 with mental and drug-related disorders. No person with the right to the necessary health care shall wait for treatment in the specialist health care for more than 65 working days and all shall be entitled to assessment within 10 working days. The latest figures from the Norwegian patient registry show that a total of 90 pst. in patients under 23 years of age with psychiatric disorders and drugrelated disorders, the referral was evaluated within 10 working days. In the 2009 mission paper, I have called for regional health companies to set up systems to coordinate referrals to the specialist healthcare services in the field of mental health protection, so that patients do not turn to more service providers for help. This requirement applies in particular to references to contract specialists. The system of operating contracts and operating grants was introduced by the Local Health Service Act of 1984. The purpose of the establishment of operational agreements was to relate to the responsibilities of municipalities and counties — later regional health enterprises — to provide health services available to the population. In order to ensure that regional health undertakings are able to discharge their responsibilities, they may either provide services in their own health establishments or enter into contracts with private individuals. In other words, regional health enterprises must have a right of access to the resources related to their population responsibilities. Private practices were still possible on social security account, without an operating contract even after 1984. This led to a distorted geographical distribution of the offer and a concentration of doctors, physiotherapists and psychologists without an operational agreement in and around the major cities. In particular, on the basis of this distribution of bias, the right to reimbursement of doctors, physiotherapists and specialists in clinical psychology who had not agreed with the municipality or county council was terminated from 1993. The scope of treatment from established practices continued to increase even after new non-contractual practices were no longer established financed by social security. This led to significant public funds being channelled into healthcare services without planned arrangements against priority patient groups and good geographical distribution. As of 1998, the right to reimbursement of medical specialists and specialists who did not have an operating agreement with the county councils was therefore completely terminated. Some of the funds released were earmarked for the establishment of new operating agreements in the county and resulted in a sharp increase in the number of years of operation of private contract specialists. Since 1998, there has been only a small increase in agreed annual works. Against this background, and in order to ensure better resource use, the National Health Plan announced that work would be undertaken to change the framework conditions in order to improve the integration of contract specialists into regional health care companies' responsibilities and to continue the private-practice contract specialists scheme. The Ministry will, within a short period of time, submit a proposal for a new framework for contract specialists. The proposal involves bringing together the contractual responsibilities of the various agreements with regional health establishments. The established tariff systems for contract specialists will initially be continued as a financing system. I believe that such a change will provide an important basis for integrating the contract specialists into caring for responsibility in a better way than today. In my opinion, free reimbursement rights for psychologists and psychiatrists will not facilitate such integration, nor will they facilitate a good and fair use of resources.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4199	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 20. [[Fooding, see page 3823]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4216	No one has asked for the floor. [[Fooding, see page 3823]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4234	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that there be no repetitions after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up on the list of speakers, in addition to the allocated speaking time, have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4241	The following is addressed in this proposal: The Government asks the Government to draw up a new national health plan through seven concrete proposals. In brief, the Committee has divided itself and has a somewhat different view of the proposals. The Government Parties point out that the Government is already working on a new national health plan for the period 2011-2014 and that the plan is to be submitted to the Stortinget in the form of a wholesale notification. The government parties, the Christian People's Party and the Left point out that the Stortinget has asked for a national health plan every four years. The first was followed as an attachment to St.prp. No 1 for 2006-2007. Both the Progress Party and the Right support the proposal, but I will stick to the views of the Advance Party on the matter. We believe it is time to put in place a new national health plan. The point of progress refers to the comment in Innst. O. No 118 for 2000-2001: ‘A second majority, the members of the Workers’ Party, the Right and the Advance Party, consider reforms necessary to increase the capacity of the healthcare system. The deficiencies in the health care system are obvious. The organisation is characterised by unclear responsibilities and contributes to poor use of human, economic and technical resources deployed. The number of doctors, and especially nurses, per The population is high in Norway compared to other European countries. Precious equipment is used for unused large parts of the day. The shared financial responsibility between the State and the State impedes the rational use of resources and has contributed to the unutilised use of available capacity.» It was then, and the situation has not changed significantly. Another majority, the Workers' Party, the Christian People's Party, the Center Party, and the SV, say in comment on the Inner East. S. No 172 for 2000–2001 that they see that the privatisation of healthcare can contribute to competition for health professionals and health crowns and create a growing distinction between patients with a good and poor economy, which was not the intention. Where are we today? Today's government has made sure to get the class distinction you didn't want to get. Only in the last three years have health cows increased by 65,000 patients, and anyone with good advice or insurance buys out of the health cows, while Ola and Kari have to wait. This has created a health class distinction in Norway. The government's policy of putting political ideology before patient treatment leads to such a result, because the capacity of the Norwegian healthcare system is not used. The fact that we have health cows of nearly 300,000 people suggests that we must give priority to setting up more facilities outside hospitals, while at the same time using the capacity of ideal and private actors. In four years, approx. one-sixth of the areas of rehabilitation disappeared as dew for the sun, despite the increasing need for rehabilitation sites. The growing problems of interaction that have become apparent between different levels of government need to be addressed by structural intervention. One of the grips, as the Progress Party sees it, is the removal of regional health businesses and the introduction of a model that ensures better national governance. It is also high time to strengthen the legal certainty of the patient and review the provisions of the Patient Rights Act. This is not to be seen in many cases today, that the patient is often in practice subordinate to the financial capacity and priorities of healthcare companies. Finally, the system of politically appointed members of the health business boards has not led to any improvement. If we are to have better economic governance, we can get rid of professionals in the board rather than politically elected people, where relationships mean more than competence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4268	Let me start by formally taking up the proposal from the Progress Party and the Right that is in the position. Let me then briefly explain why we have proposed a new national health plan. National health plan is an incorporated concept, but it's a concept that doesn't have very clear contours, and some of the purpose of the proposal is to get clearer contours. It has developed the practice of using the name national health plan as an annex to the annual budget proposal. This means that in practice it is very rarely the subject of in-depth debate at all. It is well linked to the overly descriptive nature of the national health plan in this context. It has more character of an overview of what is being done than a management tool that is intended to invite the Stortinget to an overall debate on how to develop the national health service. Therefore, we believe that the issues raised in the seven points of the proposal are clarifications of what we believe that a national health plan should respond to and give the Storting an opportunity to deal with. The rapporteur pointed to some of the points, and they have in common that they are all, to the extent that unresolved questions that have been raised following the hospital reform in their time and that to this day have not been satisfactorily resolved. The most important issues relate to the key role of regional health enterprises, which we believe are far too amusing to really act as a structural grip. The main problem is that regional health businesses have become an interrelationship between several different functions, in particular the interrelationship between caring for responsibilities and the responsibility for providing services is unfortunately functioning, because it seems that one and the same organisation sits on both sides of the table and conducts negotiations with itself. Part of the previous issues in today's meeting are the outcome of this particular weakness. We therefore believe that a national health plan should have a more precise content. The very concept and also the content of the plan should be so precise that the Stortinge has a proper basis for taking a position on the overall direction of health care development. And then finally, it has been said in a previous debate here in the Chamber, with the Health Committee as the main actor, that we have now experienced for three-quarters of a year that the Council of State has very often had a message saying this: the answer is interaction. What was the question? It illustrates a little bit, I think, the unexplainedness in the use of the term national health plan, because what the Council of State has now become accustomed to calling for an interaction reform, should actually be a national health plan, if I have understood correctly about the level of ambition for it. But it's probably just where the disagreement may lie, that a national health plan cannot be a skipper once every human age, which I have the impression that the Council of State thinks when he talks about the interaction reform. A national health plan must be of such a nature as to allow it to be rolled, e.g.: every four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4286	The representative of Inge Wohnning has drawn up the proposal he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4289	I realized that the representative Wohnning said that there was something ‘happy’ about the way the government handles the national health plan. I sat and philosophered about what it is that characterizes the opposition in terms of the approach they choose. I thought at first that there's something parasitic about it, but then I thought it's probably inappropriate, that it's probably going to be the president's club. So let's pick the word symbiosis instead, that the opposition lives in a kind of symbiosis with the Government in many ways. We have learned how we have discussed a public dental reform and that the opposition immediately made proposals. They must have thought, "Oh, the government is going to do something about dental health, let's hurry up and propose a dental reform." When the government proposes that we close at 1 p.m. 2:00 a.m., they say, "Let's hurry up and suggest that we also close at 4:00 a.m. 2 at night. When the government intends to have an escalating plan on the drug field, they think: Let's also hurry up and suggest something in the drug field. That's how we feel that this is going to be a long day's journey to night, because then one proposal comes after another. Once you have realized that the government is doing something, you would like to suggest the same thing yourself. So now it's the national health plan we're discussing. On the matter: In the case of government parties, we point out that the Government is working on a new national health plan for the period 2011–2014 and that the plan is to be submitted to the Stortinget in the form of a wholesale notification. Government Parties have noted that the Government has undertaken an interdepartmental effort to assess the need for stronger national governance and control of investment in the specialist health service. Government Parties point out that health authorities will establish a strategic framework for the field of human and training based on the National Health Plan. A strategic framework provides space for action and provides for the competence strategies related to the different roles of healthcare in this area. The operationalisation and concreteisation of own competence strategies by the health service must be proportionate to the national health plan. Government parties await and look forward to the outcome of the government’s work on the new national health plan. I would like to add that we in SV are very happy about what the government is addressing, since we were reasonably early out there and proposed a national health plan. The fact that the opposition now also seems to gather around that idea is by no means a basis for us to raise ourselves above it – rather on the contrary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4300	The President would point out that although the use of the word 'parasitic' was used indirectly, the President nevertheless believes that it is an inappropriate parliamentary expression.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4303	The size of the population has asked for a national health plan for treatment every four years. The first was followed as an attachment to St.prp. No 1 for 2006-2007. National health plan 2007–2010 presents the status of healthcare and proposes policy interventions that can provide better health care. The government will present the National Health Plan for the years 2011–2014 in spring 2010. The new health plan will be presented as a communication to the Stortinget. We need to strengthen analytical, planning and decision-making systems that focus on how public health and care efforts are structured and most rationally distributed among the different areas of action, such as prevention, diagnosis, treatment, habilitation and rehabilitation. A key instrument is to make the national health plan a good tool for developing the broad lines of healthcare services. Good national planning systems are needed which can better facilitate the building of the different parts of healthcare services with resources and competences adapted to the desired whole. National Council for Quality and Priorities represents an important development of more holistic priorities. As a further development, the Government will develop its national health plan into a more operational tool for priorities in the overall healthcare system. In particular, we will focus on analyses and conclusions on how priority should be given between the main areas, between all health and care services under municipal responsibility, including fixed activities, rehabilitation, care and prevention on the one hand, and the specialist health service under state responsibility on the other.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4312	The following speakers have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4315	What I joined in the President's comment to the representative of Ballo's speech was that it must indirectly mean that the President considers the amoeba an all right animal. I agree with the President. But the representative Ballo probably heard wrong. What I used the characteristic ‘unfortunate’ about was the dual role of regional health companies, and I think that characteristics are quite appropriate. Then the representative, Mr. Ballo, came to the matter half way. He himself said at least that he would come to the matter, and he probably did. But I really needed to just link a little comment to his general reflections on the relationship between opposition and government. The description of symbiosis is quite uncontroversial. What else would it be about in a parliamentary democracy? It is imperative that the position and the opposition have their respective roles and tasks. If democracy is to function properly, both parties must play their part. So I really don't understand why the representative Ballo had a general need to complain about the role of the opposition. I thought otherwise that for the greater part of his life here in the house he had shouldered that role with joy. I also record that he still in many cases axles the opposition role with joy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4327	The President will say that the representative is wrong about the President’s assessment of the use of the word ‘bless’. As long as it is not connected to people but to a plan, the President accepts the use of the word 'bless'. On the other hand, if a colleague or a person had been used, the president would not accept it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4330	My post was not meant to be a criticism, either by the representative Wage or by the opposition, but on the contrary as a compliment to follow up proposals that come from the Government, and even seems that many of the ideas presented by the Government are good. You even want to get ahead of the government. That's why I also said that all the parties in the Storting are now concerned that we should have a national health plan, I don't think there's any reason to "heat us over – rather on the contrary". There is reason to rejoice, so the representative's salary has no reason to feel that I have committed any attack on his person or his beautiful party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4337	The representative of Inge Wohnung has spoken twice before and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4340	My little comment to Ballo doesn't mean that I'm neither «worn nor hurt». I just feel the need to clarify that the representative Ballo is wrong when he believes that the term ‘health plan’ was invented by this government. It's definitely not. I remember that the term ‘National Health Plan’ was used already at the end of the 1980s. After following up the first prioritisation investigation and conducting consultation rounds, a paper was presented to the Stortinget at the time called the ‘National Health Plan’. So saying that that term is new, that's simply a lack of memory.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4349	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 22nd@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3823]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4366	At the request of the Health and Welfare Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. In addition, the President will suggest that there is no possibility of replication after the individual speeches, and that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time will have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4373	This is one of the issues in which the Committee's work shows that it is possible to agree on the main objectives. The main goal here is very clear. It is to improve both the knowledge of and the offer of children with autism. The proposers have tabled six proposals in their Document No. Eight proposals. It is only the Right and the Advance Party that will vote in favour of the proposals. Although the parties to the government, the Christian People's Party and the Left do not vote for the proposals, it cannot – as the discussion was in the committee, and as the setting was made – be directly linked to the fact that we are opposed to the proposals as such. What makes us not to conclude as clearly as the proposers want is that the Committee was aware that there were strong counter-representations in the professional community against providing such clear and unambiguous advice, that we were to bet on biomedical treatment, and that it was to be a special field of activity. Therefore, the entire Committee believes that more knowledge and knowledge of biomedical treatment are needed, while the majority do not want to draw such a clear conclusion as the minority wants it to be established already. The Committee has also made it quite clear that there is a need for more knowledge of how biological and biochemical factors affect the health and quality of life of autism children. The most important thing about this matter, as I see it, is that there is an overall committee that in future wants to strengthen the offer to children with autism and want to strengthen the knowledge of how we can give children with autism the best possible offer.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4382	International studies show that 70 out of 10,000 people can have autism spectra diagnostics, ASD. In Norway, this means that about 20 000 boys may have the diagnosis within the autism spectrum. So this is a large group of people with a disease that is still too small to know about, both in terms of cause and treatment and the underlying medical conditions. This is a group of patients that is different but often requires close follow-up both by health professionals and by their own family. There are also many cases of coercive use, and many difficult situations may arise in everyday life. It turns out that by providing a more comprehensive treatment and by making some changes in the diet and other, the health status and everyday life can be much better. That is why, as the Progress Party sees it, there is good reason to invest resources in research, increased competence, extended diagnosis and the organisation of alternative and more holistic approaches to treating the disease. From the public perspective, different variants of behavioural analytical training are offered, but, as we are familiar with, the provision of medical investigations and related treatment is very inadequate. In the context of the work of the Health Directorate on a peer review of biomedical imbalances and treatment in the autism spectrum diagnosis, several have pointed out that the patient population often has major underlying medical problems in the digestive system and also in the immune and nervous system. These underlying medical conditions have a negative influence on development and may cause damage and secondary effects in autism, such as sensory disturbances, impaired coordination, reduced cognitive behaviour, mood swings, exposed general health, sleep problems and impaired gastrointestinal function. Parents of children with autism report significant reductions in autistic traits in children due to biomedical treatment, including: through diet, food security and medication. It contributes to better learning opportunities and significantly better quality of life for both children and families. It is also necessary to ensure equal rights with regard to reimbursement of high costs associated with the disease. I have previously addressed this in a question-time question to Councillor Bjarne Håkon Hanssen when he had responsibility for reimbursement through Nav. However, public health services are perceived to be inadequate in this area, including: because of limited knowledge of healthcare. It is important to contribute to increased knowledge of biomedical treatment and to ensure that children with autism receive a good offer of investigation and treatment. That is why the Right Party and the Advance Party have supported these concrete proposals, which we believe will contribute both to increased competence and a much better offer to these children. We have made both children and parents who show quite clear, great improvements. Then this is an important area to look at and organise so that everyone is given equal treatment throughout the country. This must not only be reserved for a small group, but made available to everyone who needs it, even though they do not have parents who are as resourceful as the ones we've met here. I would then like to present the proposal on behalf of the Right and the Advance Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4399	The representative of Vigdis Giltun has drawn up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4402	The representative Giltun presented in an excellent way the extent of children with autism, so I'm not going to repeat it. However, the supply from the professional community in Norway is different variants of behavioural analytical training, and the provision of medical investigation and related treatment is very deficient. Recent international research suggests that underlying health problems exist in children with autism and that these problems of treatment could contribute significantly to improving the health and quality of life of the child. A press release from the then Social and Health Directorate on 21 December 2006 pointed out that there is a need to systematise the studies carried out which can elucidate biological and biochemical conditions in autism individuals. And the Health Directorate initiated a work on a knowledge summary of biomedical imbalances and treatment in the autism spectrum diagnosis. In this work, it was noted that several patients with autism have underlying medical problems in the digestive system, the immune and nervous system. Parents with autistic children in the organisation «Our way» have taken the initiative to improve research on biomedical treatment based on their own experience with healthcare. The Autism Association also supports the proposal to strengthen the knowledge base in this area. There is a broad consensus within the Committee, as the rapporteur pointed out, that more knowledge is needed on the importance of biological and biochemical factors for the health and quality of life of autism children. But it is well in this area, as in many other areas, disagreement in the professional community about which treatment works. I have met many professionals from Sweden and the United States who have a completely different view and experience and knowledge in this field than the Norwegian trade union community has. I have met not least families who have both one and three autistic children, who have gone to the United States for their own account and have received help and treatment, and with very good results. I have great respect for the experience and knowledge these parents have acquired. Therefore, I am a little surprised that the government parties and the Left and Christian People's Party consider it to be a concern to point to biomedical treatment as a special field for increased research and competence building. In the light of recent international research, the Health Directorate has launched a knowledge summary, and in this context, it has been found that this patient group often has major underlying medical problems. This is why the Right wants professionals in Norway to gain new knowledge, or, I might say, recognise that there are actually different treatment methods than the traditional ones that work. But it is well in this area, as in many other areas, that it takes time to reverse attitudes. I just mentioned the treatment arrangements and habilitation of severely disabled children. In this area too, parents themselves have acquired knowledge, travelled abroad for their own account and received help from treatment methods other than those recognised by Norwegian professionals. They have fought new individual treatment schemes, which have contributed to better health and quality of life for children and families. So it's probably going to be in this area as well. In any case, the right is willing to take action to contribute to increased knowledge of biomedical treatment for children with autism, and to focus on research and development of competences also in Norway. We are concerned that children with autism need a better offer of investigation and treatment of their somatic health problems.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4428	It is important that children with autism receive a good offer. The regional professional environments for autism and the National Unit of Competence for Autism at the Oslo University Hospital of the Rikshospitale shall contribute to this. The Autism Unit has a nationwide role in building skills, professional development and research. The unit cooperates with regional health enterprises on highly specialised services. Through the regional trade unions for autism, the competence for the treatment of autism and individually organised, holistic and long-term services will be strengthened. No treatment can cure autism today. However, different measures can help people with autism and their families to organize and master everyday life. It is important that persons with autism are provided with the necessary examinations for symptoms requiring medical examination. There are currently few studies confirming that biomedical treatment has an effect on autistic traits. The Health Directorate granted in 2006 a grant to Akershus College to finance a pilot project for studies on early intervention and biomedicine for children with autism. The Health Directorate has received the knowledge summary in the field of early intervention but has not received a final knowledge summary on biomedical treatment. The Health Directorate cannot now make recommendations on different biomedical treatments because the scientific evidence of the treatments is inadequate. The Institute for Public Health carries out a comprehensive research project on autism. The study at the Institute of Public Health, carried out in cooperation with Columbia University in the United States, aims to identify causes of autism and to study how autism-spectrum disorders develop in children. Questions relating to the possible establishment of own specialist homes in the field of biomedicine must be considered by the National Council for the Training of Doctors and the Distribution of Doctors, which is an advisory body to the Ministry on such matters as the implementation and quality of specialist medical training. I believe that we are now building a good environment of competence on autism in the establishment of the autism unit and the regional trade unions for autism. With regard to questions related to biomedical treatment, I think we need to await the knowledge summary and the results of the research project at the Public Health Institute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4443	No more people have asked for the floor on case No. 23rd Last@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3824]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4463	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 24th@item: inlistbox [[Footing, see page 3824]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4485	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 25-digit number [[Footing, see page 3824]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4507	No one has asked for the floor on case No. 26. At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that cases be brought before the Court of Justice of the European Communities. 27 and 28 will be treated together. [[Footing, see page 3824]] It's for the record.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4544	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that the speaking time be limited to 10 minutes to the spokespersons, 5 minutes to each of the other party groups and 10 minutes to the Council of State. In addition, the President will propose that 5 replies be given to replies from members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. In addition, it is proposed that those on the list of speakers, in addition to the time allocated, should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. - It's a note.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4553	As the rapporteur, I would like to say that I am very pleased that the committee is behind many of the comments in the setting of the library grossing-up message. There have also been very many polite debates around the country, and also here in Oslo, so I think it has been very nice to be the case rapporteur for this message. Although the representative of the Left has stated that the message has not been worth waiting for, the Committee, in a joint note, is pleased that the Government has provided a big message on libraries covering the entire breadth and diversity of the sector. The message provides a good overview of the library area and provides the basis for further development and strengthening of the various libraries. The message is used to develop adaptive libraries that can provide better library services. In this context, libraries need to adapt their services to users and develop skills and new forms of communication. The user interface is central to the development of the libraries. The aim of the message is to provide the basis for a government policy that can help libraries meet future challenges in a digital time and in a multicultural society. Libraries are part of knowledge and culture policy, and libraries are important meeting places in the multicultural community. The journalist and author Mustafa Can, who is a Kurdish immigrant in Sweden, writes in his book Tett until the days: «The library was not just walls with books in beautiful rows; it was a universe and a variety of horizons that took me out on a journey, beyond the narrow limits of the city of the killer... I owned the world by having access to the library.» I think this is a beautiful description of how important libraries are from an integration perspective. The People's Library is the main and most visited cultural arena in the municipality. Libraries should help to strengthen democracy and freedom of expression, and the message states that the public libraries should remain free in all municipalities, something that SV is very pleased about. A free library offer gives everyone the opportunity to participate and have access to books, networks and journals, regardless of background and economy. A good library offer will help build up class barriers, and it is a good learning venue and a democracy builder. The digital challenges will shape the development of libraries in the future. Digitalisation and dissemination of digital material face copyright challenges in libraries, and it is therefore important that the sector strengthens its competence in this area. Licensed materials are very important sources of knowledge in libraries. Licences must be negotiated as a national asset, where public libraries can also provide such access. In its note, the Government asks the Ministry of Culture and the Church and the Ministry of Knowledge to continue to work on the scope, organisation and financing of such national licences. I would also like to stress the importance of the provision of up-to-date and accessible university and higher education libraries with regard to licensed material. Computer games are now an important part of the culture of children and young people. Libraries should contribute to creating social and secure frameworks around computer games while giving this cultural expression a legitimate place. I want to highlight Norwegian computer games – they are fun and of high quality, and they should be an offer at our libraries in the future. Knowledge of computer games must also be included as part of the necessary enhancement of the competence of the library sector. The entire Committee welcomes the fact that the message provides for closer cooperation between different libraries, while at the same time opening up to the development of different cooperation models. Incentives for cooperation and coordination can help municipalities to test different models. Competence development programme is a necessary effort to strengthen libraries. I have visited many libraries before the processing of the message, and I would say that many places around the country are now making exciting advances to become model libraries. I've been to Molde, which is a place where you've really worked with this kind of thinking in the future. The Ministry also wants to promote a case on changes to the Library Act. It's necessary and good. There is a strong need for overall national policies in key areas of library competence development and service development. It is good that the management of musical instruments for cultural buildings is transferred to the county. This means that investment aid for libraries and mobile services is part of this scheme. A national literature actor is now appointed in the cultural school system. Norwegian Authorcentrum has extensive experience with authoring tours and good regional coverage. This is positive. As a national author of literature in the cultural school system, the Norwegian Author Centre must contribute to the dissemination of literature productions based on professional literature, foreign literature and literature by deceased authors to students. We will underline the library's task as the learning venue, and especially the important role of the school libraries, and are pleased that the Government has launched a separate school library development programme. This will contribute to the professional strengthening of the school libraries, which is particularly important and necessary. Government parties believe it is important that scientific literature and prose are communicated in the same way as the other literature, which is covered by state cultural policy through the purchasing systems, for example. snow literature. We are pleased that the Department assesses an appropriate way of strengthening the dissemination of scientific literature and of case law in the libraries. We are pleased with the increased investment in the prison libraries that have been implemented in recent years. Government parties note that the message provides the basis for the patient libraries to be administratively anchored in the healthcare system. It is important that this conversion ensures patients' right to library services, so that this service is not impaired. The Committee welcomes the strengthening of the Norwegian Audio and Braille Library and is aware that the KABB Audio and Blind Library provides a very important and complementary offer for the blind and partially syndicated. In addition to the NLB offer, KABB’s publications are a natural part of the overall national supply of library services to the blind and partially sighted. Children, young people and adults who are completely or partly speechless need alternative forms of communication to express themselves and understand. For many of these, alternative or supplementary communication, ASK, is the only option. The Committee calls for an assessment of the inclusion of an offer to this group as part of a national library offer. It is necessary to strengthen libraries as contributors to inclusion, integration and cultural diversity. For this reason, it is important for all groups that have different problems making their literature available, that there is also an offer in the libraries. The multilingual library makes important contributions to the entire sector in this area. Through this service, all libraries can provide better services to their users. Today, we are also addressing the message on national strategy for the digital preservation and dissemination of cultural heritage. This message is closely associated with the library messages, and updates that we need a level of competence in the sector. ICT policy in the field of culture is to maximise the availability of our collections in archives, libraries and museums for the most possible future use of ICT solutions. The collections shall be searchable and accessible across the entire ABM field, and the content shall be communicated user-oriented, so that it is easily accessible. It's a raging development in this area that we can only understand the consequences of. Social media is the everyday life of children and young people. It is forward-looking and exciting, and it offers unparalleled opportunities for a more fair and democratic information and knowledge society. Finally, I would like to say that some of the criticisms that have come against the library message are that there is a lot to consider and assume, etc., but it is clear that we are going to follow up what is in the message. Any communication in the field of culture addressed by this government has been followed up by budgetary funds. We're going to have a cultural promise in the future, as this government has done. There is a historical commitment to culture, and it is to be continued, so that these two messages are also followed up with annual appropriations, but it depends on a new red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4600	The new ICT technology opens up entirely new opportunities both to preserve our cultural heritage and to make it available and completely different opportunities to produce different types of source materials across traditional sector-wide display sites. The vision of the Government's ICT policy in the field of culture is to make as much of our collections in archives, libraries and museums as possible available. The purpose of the Communication is to launch a strategy to achieve these objectives. Access to ICT in a rapidly changing society is an instrument to maintain and further develop fundamental democratic values such as: was the basis for public information and the making available of libraries. Wide public information was a prerequisite for democratic development, where a knowledge-based basis for participation in society was created. The library message carries this vision, but is based on how a forward-looking library must be more than a book collection where you can get knowledge. Library in our global information society looks completely different. It shall facilitate information as well as the experience of art and culture — based on physical meeting places, but also on virtual experiences and meeting places. It shall provide for individual immersion and opportunities for shared discussions and experiences. The digital world will provide completely new opportunities and new requirements for the design and competence of a modern library and the services to be provided. The core is that the new opportunities offered by the ICT community should be made available, provide users with new opportunities to experience and to participate actively in society. At the heart of the development of libraries is the work of digitising our cultural heritage. Digitisation of cultural heritage can contribute to a more fair and democratic information and knowledge society. The government sees access to cultural heritage as a central step towards the realisation of the cultural digital public. I am pleased to say that there is a broad consensus on the assessments made and the measures proposed in the Communication, although some shades are present. The work on digitisation takes place in several areas, in different sectors, centrally, regionally and locally. In this context, a number of instruments need to be coordinated. The Committee supports the implementation of actions aimed at joint solutions for the digital preservation, making available and dissemination of their collections by sectors and institutions. It is the Swedish Archives Agency and the National Library together with ABM development and the museums that form the foundation of a national digitisation initiative in the area of the Ministry of Culture and the Church. The majority of the Committee subscribes to the unique operational sector responsibilities underpinning the division of labour. The National Library is the main player in the digitisation work in the library field and has sole responsibility for national bibliographical standards and digital solutions for searching across all libraries. The Archives Agency shall have equivalent operational responsibility for the archive side, while ABM development shall have coordinating and facilitating tasks for museums and private archives outside the Archives Agency, but no direct operational tasks in the digitisation context. The Committee stresses the importance of establishing a comprehensive overview of the contents and services of Norwegian libraries, archives and museums. In this context, national standards for digitisation in the ABM field are important. National joint solutions for archive, library and museum data will form the basis for an integrated search that generates cross-institutional responses and points directly to content from different bases and sources. As well as the law on copyright and the law on disclosure of personal data, the law on copyright and the law on disclosure of personal data provides a framework for digital making available. The same is true of the administrative provisions on professional secrecy. The relationship between society's desire for access to protected material and the rights of authors is a core issue in terms of digital accessibility. The Committee is aware that this is also among the themes addressed in the revision of the copyright law. The Committee welcomes the cooperation of the National Library with Norwegian copyright organisations to make Norwegian works digitally available over the Internet. The National Library's pilot project Boekylla.no may in the long term form a model for simplified clearance through the contract licence under the copyright law § 16a. This project may form a model for arrangements with contract licences also for other copyrighted material.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4634	We in the Progress Party are pleased that there is now a big message about library and a digitalisation of our cultural heritage. The Progress Party believes that the Norwegian cultural heritage represents great values for Norwegian society. It is our common history and memory and is central to our modern society. We see archives, libraries and museums as central to the preservation of our cultural heritage and its dissemination in today's societies and to future generations. In a knowledge society like ours, access to information is vital, and libraries have been important contributors in this way for many years. It is an important public task to ensure adequate appropriations for operations and investments in the library sector. At the same time, we believe that the sector can be strengthened by good cooperation with educational institutions, local associations, voluntary enthusiasts, businesses and professionals, for example. in the education sector. Open and good cooperation with the rest of society will strengthen libraries, in particular in terms of dissemination. Dissemination is central to the activities of libraries. The Progress Party believes that all public collections – whether libraries, archives or museums – should focus more on the audience, so that the collections are more widely used. Increased use will inspire individuals, strengthen Norwegian culture and give pleasure to many. Although we believe that the core activities of libraries need to be strengthened, we believe that activity in terms of purely entertainment services that compete with private businesses can be reduced to an advantage. This applies, inter alia, to: loaning computer games, CDs, DVDs, etc. Otherwise, we believe that the message presented has too much focus on multiculturalism. The Progress Party wants a cultural policy that primarily respects Norwegian culture and cultural heritage. We believe that the integration of expressions from other cultures should take place at a natural pace and should not be a public task. Norwegian culture lives in natural association with other cultures and therefore does not need its own stimulus over public budgets to absorb new impulses. They are best received when they are not forced in. We cannot therefore see the need for Norwegian libraries to spend considerable resources on publications, such as: newspapers and literature from the country of origin of immigrants. Except for this, of course, scientific or scientific literature that is important from an international perspective and is available in internationally used languages. Finally, a word about the digitisation message. In our modern society, it is important that collections are digitised to ensure the content of the past and to increase the availability of the audience. The key to the digitalisation of collections is that they should communicate with people in an appropriate way through lending and availability over the Internet. The user perspective must be central to the development of the digital services of libraries. In this field, there is broad consensus. Of course, it's very pleasant and also interesting to see the broad consensus. It is also interesting what it is actually not concluded with in the submitted communication. It concerns the area of rights, licensing, etc. There are considerable challenges ahead of us to find practical solutions that can enable digitised collections to be made available to the wider community.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4657	The library message as well as the message about digitisation are good and instructive reviews of the respective fields. Perhaps there is a small amount of political conflict that has come to the surface of these messages. I think we can see that in most of the main features there is quite broad consensus here in the Chamber. Some of it may come from the fact that there are well many honorary words and relatively little with offensive and obligating objectives. It's going to be a quick consensus of this kind. Digitalisation is a major challenge, economic and in relation to the technical and labour resources that need to be reduced. With the ABM reform in fresh memory, where all the political camps were quite strongly challenged to find money for implementation, I see that putting resources aside for digitisation is going to be a big boost. I took note of the promise of the representative May Hansen that money should be found for this. In this context, I must say that even in good red-green cultural budgets, we are talking about a lot of money if digitisation is to take place at a useful pace. It is also important in this context that we make use of the means to carry out the digitisation of private archives and collections. There is a significant economic need in the years to come, and probably also in areas where it would be difficult to find money. For the library field, the Right probably wanted a slightly more offensive message with a more in-depth analysis of how the library's knowledge dissemination will be used and distributed in the future. The information society we are looking for is changing fundamental social structures at a great pace. This shall be without prejudice to the libraries. Maybe it's hard to see into the glass ball, but I'm tracking that a new library message has to come in a few years. The one we are now dealing with, in the Right's view, is too much based on yesterday's premises for what a library is expected to be. A field of change such as libraries needs resources, competences and good networks. With regard to the construction of good networks and cross-sectoral work, a very good job has been done in many places, not least in my own home country, Oppland, where the county library leads in important development work that binds the libraries together. But across the fields within the ABM area, there is still an extensive job to be done. There I believe that ABM has an important task to tackle that it may be necessary to come back to. Development and conversion require competence. Unfortunately, it's kind of like looking around. 108 municipalities still have less than one year's work in the library. 124 municipalities have not trained the library manager. 72 municipalities have more than five years' work, and only 31 have more than ten. The opposition's proposal for a reform of the library's competence is absolutely in place. For many other reasons, a new municipal structure is also being discussed. Here, I think the library field has a lot of positive opportunities. You have to follow closely how you can build a better library sector with a slightly larger unit, and of course from the point of view of making good offers to the whole population. Another theme is the relationship between the National Library and ABM-U. It shouldn't be stuck under the chair that we're left with the feeling that ABM-U has pulled the shortest straw. This is a debate and a balance Right reserves the right to come back to it with an open mind. Of course, it is important to have a strong library institution in the future, but it is also clear that our digital tomorrow will mean that the museums, archives and libraries need to be seen in more detail. Tomorrow's library must be able to take on new tasks and new working methods. Bookhylla.no is an exciting example of how, by being offensive, we can seize a development that otherwise goes by and make our own premises. I also hope that the library sector will be able to take tomorrow in its own hands and make the premises. I'll take up the suggestions that the right hand hand hand hand is on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4688	The representative Olemic Thommess has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4691	This is the last day of debates for the Family and Culture Committee. I would like to take this opportunity to thank you very much for your excellent cooperation in the Committee. I think it's been a great pleasure for most of us to be allowed to work on the cultural field and family policy. Now it's the last one before it becomes a well-earned holiday for everyone. Libraries are important knowledge bases and a source of activity, experience and knowledge. The Christian People's Party will strengthen and further develop the library sector. We believe the libraries should offer a wide range of services. It is particularly important to further develop the digital tools and offers of libraries. At the same time, we know that digitisation and dissemination of digital material will face major challenges in the time to come, both in terms of investment in new technologies and in terms of copyright. It is therefore good to see the library message and the digitisation message in the context. The library message provides the basis for further efforts in the library sector. There is a broad consensus that we should continue to have strong public engagement, so that we can ensure good, attractive and robust library offerings across the country. I'm glad. But I'm critical that the Government will remove the requirement of county library in the Library Act. The county libraries are important resource and competence centres, and they are valuable contributors towards the entire library sector. County libraries should not be weakened. On the contrary, they should be strengthened. Law anchoring of county libraries is important in order to ensure continued good library services at regional and local level. For many of us, it's a pleasure to crawl into the book's world. It is very important that the blind and the feeble also have good library services. It is good that the Norwegian Audio and Braille Library is strengthened, and I will also mention KABB, Kristent Arbeid Blant Blinde and Weak Synthesis. KABB is a natural part of the overall national supply of blind and partially sighted people. Visual and reading impaired persons must have a good and varied offer. I expect the Government to propose to increase the appropriations for the KABB next year's budget, which the Christian People's Party has proposed many times. I'm concerned about the future of the Patient Library at the Rikshospitale. The government is now transferring responsibility for the operation and financing of library services in healthcare institutions to health care. Thus, the funding of the Patient Library is transferred from the Ministry of Culture’s budget and over to the health sector without earmarking the funds. I ask the Council of State to ensure that this important offer at the Rikshospitale is not weakened. As mentioned at the outset, digitisation and development of new media services and platforms will be central to the future. This concerns most of the libraries. There are new opportunities for dissemination and new storage and archiving opportunities. It is also important that the National Library be strengthened as a resource for digitisation and that they have sufficient competence for copyright issues. But, of course, digitisation does not only affect the library sector. It affects museums and archives — yes, the whole of cultural life and society is being influenced. There is now a heated debate on copyright. This is an important debate. New technology challenges the right of rightholders to receive compensation for their products. But at the same time, new technologies open up great opportunities. Services are now being developed where file sharing and download of digital material are taking place in legal forms. We have advertising or subscription funded services that give users access to large amounts of material – absolutely legitimate. This will increase in scope. We see that streaming services are about to break down. Increased bandwidth and increased processor power open up completely new services, which are attractive to the end-user. This is good. Technological developments provide new opportunities to ensure that rightholders are properly protected. For the Christian People's Party, it is absolutely essential that we are able to protect copyright. Good and user-friendly services that make it attractive to download legal material, we therefore welcome. This is an important offer in the digitised age that will contribute to creativity and enhanced content production. But we now have to put in place a revised copyright. Developments are moving fast, and we need an up-to-date law in this area.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4719	We who are library friends have had many great library experiences. I want to share one of them with you. I visited Sarajevo. Sarajevo has a fantastic old library that was completely bombed out during the war. It was only the framework that was left, and not one book was left. Then I was visiting Cairo. And when I was standing in the library in Cairo, a very famous philosopher from Sarajevo came into the library with a big box under his arm. He said that in war, libraries are the first to be attacked. – When my family was attacked, he said, the first thing they did was to light up the family library. When my hometown, Sarajevo, was attacked, the first thing they did was to set the library on fire. A library without books is nothing worth anything, he said and put the box again with books in the library in Cairo. Future class divisions are going to go between those who are able to identify in the information society and those who are unable to identify in the information society. In this way, perhaps libraries are both the most important conflict prevention and the most important to prevent class divisions in the new information society. Library is never a goal, but a method. It's a method to work for. If you've gone to the library in Cairo or the library in Madrid, in New York, the great new one in Seattle, or you've seen in all the folk libraries in Oslo, you've always seen that libraries are a product of the environment it's in. There's a big difference between the Røa People's Library in Oslo and the Tøen People's Library. That's because the population is different. The rapporteur said that an overall committee was pleased that the message had arrived. Yes, we are very pleased that the message has arrived, but we are still a little uncertain whether it was worth waiting for. Because it's very non-obligatory, there's little priorities here, and there's no big commitment in terms of money. We in the Left have prioritised library high in all our alternative budgets, both within the purchasing system of the case, the school libraries within the purchasing system and the knowledge-building in libraries. We really don't see any response to those priorities in this message again. Then I just have to have a little comment on the Progress Party, which does not want pure entertainment. A lot of literature is quite pure entertainment. I would say that very much of the fictional literature is pure entertainment. I have to inform the Progress Party, sail if it doesn't work like they didn't, that sail if there's someone who sells computer games, and there's someone who sells DVDs, and there's also someone who lives by selling books. So if we were to assume the principle that there should be no entertainment, or something that someone made by selling, there should not be books in the library of the Progress Party. I think we have a big challenge in terms of trial. We have a huge challenge in relation to the entire position of the proselytizers. I am still concerned about this after we dealt with this message, and it is also my concern after reading the evaluation of the book agreement. We have to do a little bit more to stimulate good practice. I want to be so bold that I come up with an idea to the Council of State, because I hear rumors that he now has great ideas about what to do next. He does not use to listen to us in the opposition, but I thought I should be so bold that I try anyway. If you're going to get a revised library law, we believe in the Left that then you should have merged all the cultural laws into one law, both within archives, libraries and museums, and perhaps become a little more meaningful in the cultural law we passed, which was not all the world's commitment. So finally, in relation to the digitalization message: I really had hoped to get more support for Left's proposal for a public investigation related to the revision of the copyright law. The reason is that it's a very complex issue, it's a problem that contains a lot of elements, from a privacy and consumer perspective to a copyright and artist perspective, and I think that law had been good at getting all the parties around a table, so that one could discuss different solutions and different models for the future. I think that the law had stood by when it was going to be dealt with here in the hall, where we have ended up on our heels in the matter of copyright law. I am sorry that we do not receive any more support for the proposal, but I would like to take it up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4740	The representative of Trine Skei Grande has taken up the proposal to which she referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4744	This government has provided many messages during this magnification period, including in the cultural field. I think we've now reached the 17th big message that we're dealing with from the department, and that means that we're about to go through all the different arts and cultural fields. There's still a big message about museums, coming to summer, but then we've basically got a complete review of all the sectors. It may be difficult to rank the different messages. I have previously stated that the language message is probably the most important cultural message of this period, but I would say that these twin messages, the library message and the digitisation message are closely behind the language message. The Digitalisation Communication is an offensive national strategy for the realisation of an Internet-based culture and knowledge-based public opinion for the benefit and joy of the entire population. I don't think it's too strongly said to say that the technological change we're now undergoing in digitalization can only be compared to the huge change we got when printing was invented. The way we can now store, disseminate and use information by making practical, gradually, all of humanity's accumulated knowledge available at a key pressure will change the way society looks, and it challenges us in how to achieve the ordinary, important, political goals of justice, an opportunity for everyone, participation and democracy in a digital age. Often there is attention to the problems, at the latest today we heard that the music industry threatened with a report, I think they went to court, against Telenor because of the illegal distribution of material, for which the rightholders were then not paid. We'll experience the same thing with movies, as the bandwidth increases, and as the user interface and readability improve, we'll probably experience the same thing in books. But in the midst of all these challenges of payment flows and copyright protection, we should not forget the amazing tool of digitisation can be, and what incredible opportunities it offers. We have huge collections in Norway of books, objects, different things that are an important part of our cultural heritage. Our ambition is to make as many of these collections available as possible through digitisation. It will provide us with new opportunities for the dissemination of our culture, both through museums and libraries and ordinary channels, as well as in other areas of society, such as education, research and other societal goals. The challenge of digital preservation, making available and disseminating the collections in the ABM field is many, both legal, collection and organisational. First of all, the job itself is enormous. It's only for 10 to 15 years -- let's say 15, for a little bit -- that we've lived in the digital age. Everything before it has to be reviewed and digitised for the first time. And it goes without saying that most of what humanity has produced from material was produced before the mid-1990s. So it's a huge problem we have to do. Fortunately, technology helps us. It's getting easier and faster to scan things and put things out, but it's a formidable work we're going to do. Then it's important that we have good priorities. What is important to digitize first, and how much should be digitized? This must be done after professional assessments in the institutions, but there must also be a social perspective on it: how should we ensure that the most important thing is made available first? Then we have to ask: how can we get the central actors across the entire archive, library and museum field to implement a comprehensive digital collection management, how can we make this uniquely simple both for users and for those who digitise, how can we get a clear operational sector responsibility in digitisation, and who should be responsible for which sectors? We give an answer to this in the message. The Archives and the National Library shall develop long-term storage systems which shall also cover the collections of the Museums, and we shall also develop sector-specific search services and joint searches across institutional boundaries and collections. The goal is that this is not just digitized, but that it becomes simple, unbureaucratic and understandable for people most to use these collections. We're already making a lot of material available. Bookhylla.no, which was recently launched, is publishing part of our literature heritage. But we also try out new and innovative digital communication services within the ABM field. The library message takes care of the entire library sector, but has a special look at the public libraries. Some have asked themselves if we need the library longer in the middle of this digital age, where we can eventually reach the entire world library and world information with our computer from home. The answer to the big message is clear: Yes, we need the library. People's libraries should still be a place where you can find the information you need, where you can find the information you might not know that you needed, especially in the field of culture, but also other types of information, where you can find resources, information, knowledge and incentives that are not initially easy to find, and not least where you get professional assistance from people who know how to find out in the information society. The objective we have that everyone should have the opportunity to participate, that everyone should have the opportunity to acquire knowledge, that everyone should have the opportunity to use the library as a resource in their education, in their development and in their formation, is equally important, if not more importantly, in a society where the digital class divide or the information divide may be at risk of increasing. The library shall also be a meeting place, not just a resource. I think we have to turn around a little bit the way we look at the library, because some of us have grown up with the library primarily like a giant bookcase, a very large room of newspaper clips and books and some nice people who have knowledge to help us out. I think that developing the library like the learning arena, a place where people meet, where cultural activities take place, a generalisation where we actually have interpersonal contact, is an important future development for the libraries. We also write about this in the library message: One of the objectives is to develop robust and resilient libraries that provide users with good library services and a library worth using in the community. It requires more interaction between the public libraries locally and regionally, more cooperation between different types of libraries, such as: operation, dissemination, technological infrastructure and empowerment. We are not in favour of a coercion of the smallest libraries, although we see that there is a precarious lack of professionally trained staff in the smallest municipalities. Instead, we want to use positive instruments, giving extra resources and incentives to those who make good cooperation projects. We want voluntary cooperation agreements between the state and the county councils on library development. We want to develop model libraries that promise good, forward-looking libraries. We want to strengthen our competence, and we also clarify the responsibilities between ABM development and the National Library in the library field. I think this is a proper strategy. If we demand that others use the resources efficiently, well and appropriately, we must also look at the state instruments. Digital development is a major challenge for libraries. Today's tool for the library, such as purchasing systems, etc., need to be adapted to digital developments, such as: with national licences, so that we can coordinate the resources and facilitate the sharing of libraries around the country on things that we have jointly cleared. In the library message it is proposed that 2010 be a national academic year. It will be a good opportunity both to lift the libraries and to lift the important task of promoting literacy and literacy. I am proud of these two messages. I think they're pointing far ahead. I am also pleased that there is such broad support for them in the committee.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4784	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4787	It's a theme I want to elaborate on. It's not sure that we necessarily disagree with that, but I'd like to have it a little bit more elaborate. This applies to the measures described. When it comes to the relationship between the National Library and ABM development, it might look like you're adding up, what I'm saying, a clearing operation, or maybe, more correctly, a sorting action in relation to sorting tasks between these two businesses. I would like to hear a little bit more about that, and ask questions about it. Governments themselves put emphasis on the merging of tasks and changing tasks in the digital society, and typically for the ABM field, I think this is where the tasks and information will merge. Is it a good idea to clean this up so that you get two knowledge poles? Should it not also be seen in context and seek a clear focus of competence that brings this area together?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4794	At least it's important that we ask ourselves how we can make the best use of the state's resources. Our entire cultural policy over the last four years has been trying to get resources out, reduce public bureaucracy, reduce the number of support schemes and get the most out of an ever-increasing cultural pot into activity, such as: out here to local libraries, public libraries, school libraries, get better purchasing systems – thus getting the material content of the libraries stronger. So I don't have a dogmatic relationship with ABM development or the National Library. I have a relationship that the state tasks have to be carried out. There may be some good arguments that the a and the b and the m can do things together, but there are at least as good arguments that b and b, the ‘library’ of the National Library and the B of the ABM development can do things together. That's what we're going into without prejudice, trying to get a limit on and a clean-up in, so that we use the resources as best we can. And the conclusion of that is that we will come back to Stortinget with in an appropriate way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4801	I would like to have a clarification from the Council of State regarding the copyright law, because the Left's proposal to have a slightly wider review is not supported here today. Obviously, the Council of State believes that it is best enough that this be decided within the ministry. It is in itself okay, but we have been notified that this will come quite quickly. On various websites today, I see that all cases are postponed and come only in 2010. Then I would like the Council of State to clarify: is this something that we are going to get quickly, or is it the Council of State's plan that we will have a revision of the copyright law only in 2010?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4808	Reviewing the copyright will take time. As far as I remember, the Left actually proposed to put down a public selection and here get a broad NOW. We think that's a little too long, so I think we'll try to get to an intermediate, a good investigation and review, but get a case relatively quickly. I agree with the representative, Skei Grande, who said in his post that this is an incredibly important theme in the future: how do we use the digital public in a good way? But my impression is that the left might have forgotten the second piece: how do we secure payment for those who create the material? I see now that one of the stakeholder organisations is going out with a strong warning against voting the Left in the Grand Election, and no matter where you stand politically, I think we should take that fear in the sector that you actually lose the income for your work, profoundly seriously. If the result of such a conversion is that those who are going to live by creating what is supposed to be the content of that spread are not paid, then it does not help with good spreading, then we have nothing to spread.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4817	It's for digitisation, and it's for the private archives – or the semi-private ones, or what they're now going to be called. There are quite a few collections of important substances. It could be small museum collections, it could be business archives – at all, there is a wide range of private archives. So far, it's one of the few areas that I think the Council of State has dealt with somewhat in budgetary terms. There is a little to be desired when it comes to handling these. Now that we're getting involved in digitisation, I fully agree with the Council of State's analysis that there won't be smallpox of a resource-intensive process. Will the Council of State try to explore the part of the cultural heritage contained in the private archives?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4824	Yes, I agree with the representative Thommess that there is a lot of valuable and interesting material in private archives that should be digitised and made available. When we have had to give priority to this four-year cycle and take the lead in public archives, this is because this is a huge need. We just opened a new mountain hall on Sogn. We just gave a start signal for the construction of a new state archive building in Bergen, and Thommessen knows the needs of his own region. It is therefore enormous with material in the state archive sector that needs to be kept. But I fully agree that we must also ensure good cooperation with the private archives. We may not be able to take on the entire cost of the private archives, but what we can do now is to facilitate access to technology, to simple ways to digitize their collections, so that we coordinate the resources that we have, including against them, and make this as reasonable and as simple as possible for the private archives that exist.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4833	Yes, I would like to follow up on the question that I asked. Now I'm not going to take on 50 seconds to try to convince the Council of State that other types of funding models need to be found if you're going to do this. Obviously, we have a huge challenge if we now say that today's copyright is perfect, and that today's copyright respects all the rights of composers and writers. But it's clear that it doesn't work perfectly, so I think the Council of State must admit, because today many claim to lose hundreds of millions. If the Council of State is going to spend another two years revising the law, a law that nobody wants to enforce, will this not lead to a basis for composers and writers losing even more than they do today?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4842	There's nothing wrong with the law in principle. The law says very clearly that whoever created something that is copyrighted has the right to be paid if he wants to. It is he or she who decides whether this should be free or not. The challenge with the Left is that one believes that it should no longer be decided whether it should be free or not, it is the system, since it is now free of charge, it must be free of charge. I have the opposite approach. A lot of people are breaking the speed limits, too. That's how the speed limits make people lawbreakers. But the solution to that is not to remove the speed limits. Obviously, you can remove all traffic offenders if you remove traffic rules, but this will create quite insurmountable problems. Similarly, in the cultural field, it is clear that if you remove the law that says that this is a theft, when you take the material of others and put it out and spread it for everyone wins without payment, you remove the crime, but you do not remove the fact that the people who have made the material must begin as waiters or carpenters or teachers, or with completely different things, and stop making music, stop making movies and stop writing books, because they no longer have the money, because they no longer get paid.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4849	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4855	One of the best gifts that politicians can give to our children is to make them happy in language, in words, in stories about their own culture, the culture of others, travel into the past and the future, share in the thoughts and travels of others. Making children like reading and writing is very important for each child and for the knowledge society as a whole. That's why it's a brand day today when the big-time message about the library is discussed and adopted in Stortinget. The Communication states that a library is one of the most important tools to strengthen the knowledge society and gives a clear signal that we are going to focus on library and library development in the coming years. Library and development of the libraries of a central meeting place are important. Libraries shall be a social meeting place, a cultural arena and not least an important learning venue and shall be accessible and free of charge. The free principle in the libraries stands as a pole, which is opposite to the commercial community, where much is based on purchase and sale. The stake in libraries is to bet on equalizing the social differences we have in our society. The Stortinge adopts a reading year 2010. The next year shall be a national academic year. I look forward to this. It is important to bet on reading among children, young people and adults, and in particular to bet on reading among children and young people. Learning to read and write is important for all children. The initiative taken at the school library, and linking the school libraries closer to school learning, is extremely important. A school library programme is in place to strengthen the development and competence and content of the school libraries. Libraries should be the very heart of any school. But we know that the quality of the school libraries varies from school to school. I believe it is important that in the 2010 academic year, priority should be given to strengthening the school libraries, and that they should be given priority because investing in school library development means investing in school knowledge.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4872	First, I just have to say that as far as Lena Jensen's posts are concerned, I agreed with everything she said, so I hope that SV can also vote in favour of the Left's proposal regarding the school library and the purchasing system. But that's not really what I took the word for. It was a moment I didn't get time for in my post, and it was that today we have very hard shots between what is folk library, what is professional library, and what is the library of the different sectors. I think we have to start breaking down the hard shots in the future. I think that we would have done well to try out some new models within ownership in the area that would make us maybe not think of it as a big problem if we, for example. on Tøen, where one has an amazing trade library linked to the Natural History Museum and a small public library to serve the population, had merged the two libraries and got a better offer from both parties. I don't think there would have been any great damage to Tøen. Then I have to be allowed to comment in the end: it is clear that if you were to revise the copyright law only in 2010, you would have had time to put down a NOW if you had done it when the left said you would do it, that is, the first time we suggested it. At that time they had had time for both the NOU and the investigation and consultation, but they still had the same progress as the Council of State in the matter of the copyright law. Someone will very soon notice that the emperor does not wear clothes, because it is nice to lubricate himself with a copyright that sounds nice, but you are not willing to enforce. If you want to enforce the law, you have to be willing to have the police pick up all fourteen-year-olds' hard drives. If you're willing to do that, you'd have to boast that you're in favour of a copyright that you're willing to enforce. But soon people have to stop boasting of a copyright that you are not willing to enforce and that you are not willing to take the consequences of, and rather try to make a law that you are willing to enforce and to take the consequences of. Then I will also accept that people are lubricating with good words about everything it stands for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4883	Just a brief comment at the end of the debate on some of the information that appeared in Schei Grande's main posts, not in her last post now, which could be interpreted as meaning that the Progress Party wanted to remove some books from the libraries – books of a very ordinary library character. I would quote from my main post, where I say, ‘Although we believe that the core activities of libraries need to be strengthened, [[...]] At the same time, however, we believe that in the case of purely entertainment services that compete with private businesses, for example. Video and DVD shops, record shops, game shops, etc. can be reduced to an advantage. This applies, inter alia, to: loaning of entertainment computer games, CDs and DVDs. We don't see it as an important task for public budgets and for Norwegian libraries to borrow ‘The Terminator’ or Bruce Willis films or ‘World of Warcraft’ or a-has last record. We think it can be left to the private market in terms of rental and purchase.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4890	Several have not asked for the floor for case No. 27 and 28. [[See pages 3824 and 3825]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4907	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4916	In St. prp. No 65 The Government proposes a simplification and conversion of the Norwegian Cultural Council’s appointment and composition legislation. The conclusions of the Ministry are based on the final report of the Løken Committee, simplified, coordinated and independent, issued on 5 June 2008, including: was mandated to look at various aspects of the composition, operation and functioning of the Norwegian Cultural Council. The present grossing-up proposal concerns only the rules on the appointment and composition of the Council of Culture and not the other aspects of the Council's activities. The majority agree with the Ministry’s reasoning that a council of fewer members can work more dynamically and efficiently than a council of 13 members, the current number. The Ministry proposes ten members, a slightly higher number than recommended in the Løken report. The majority of the Committee agrees that this could be an appropriate size of the Council. We also agree that the council as a whole is appointed by the King on a proposal from the Ministry of Culture and the Church. It could contribute to overall thinking around the composition of the Council, so that this would be a well-functioning college. The Government proposes that artistic and cultural competence should be the applicable criteria for the appointment of the Board of Governors. This does not mean, of course, that other important experience from, for example: other policies, organisational work or social life are uninterested in the work of the Council. However, the majority agree that Council members should not represent specific parties or organisations, as has been the case in the past. By emphasising the artistic and cultural background of members in the appointment process, the Norwegian Culture Council will be able to provide important complementary competences in relation to state, regional and local cultural governance. The majority fraction in the Committee has highlighted in particular the importance of the broad geographical representation of the Council. There are increasing numbers of professional freelancers who want to live in different regions of the country, and it is of great importance that the members of the Norwegian Cultural Council have good dialogue with and broad knowledge of these cultural environments. This is a price tip which should also apply to the composition of the various committees of the Council of Culture. It is worth noting that most of the opinions of the Løken Committee’s report, which refers to the Norwegian Cultural Council, are positive that the Council must be broadly composed and agree in principle that artistic and cultural criteria must form the basis for the appointment of Council members. Some of the comments the opposition makes in this matter are, in fact, a little bit difficult to understand. It is not obvious that government-appointed members of the Council will have closer political ties than members appointed by the magnification, which the opposition parties seem to believe – especially when the members of the Council from now on are actually to be appointed on an art and cultural basis, and not, as in the past, on the basis of party political or organisational affiliation. Nor can I see that the opposition in any way suggests how they believe that the council can best be appointed. The opposition also claims that it is impossible to address the issue of appointment and composition without involving all aspects of the functioning of the Council of Culture. I disagree. It is fully possible to define specific issues relating to the appointment of the Council and compositional criteria — and then, at a later stage, to address different other aspects of the Council's activities. I am pleased with the proposals for amendments for the appointment of the Norwegian Cultural Council submitted by the Ministry. I believe that both the Norwegian Cultural Council and cultural life will benefit from it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4936	The matter of the appointment and composition of the Norwegian Cultural Council appears unsolved and weakly justified in relation to what you really want with the Council. The matter now comes to the fore of the period – apparently most motivated by the fact that the new Council has to be appointed simply because the old one is overtime with an extended period of time, probably, 1 July. It would have been better if the government by this crossroads had realized that this would be hanging in the air, and admitted that it in this area did not come into being satisfactorily. In order to decide on this matter, the Stortinget must be invited to a wide-ranging discussion of the tasks of the Norwegian Cultural Council and the location in the instrument. The right-wing party therefore believes that the matter should be sent back to the Government. From the point of view of the Right, this matter appears to be another move to concentrate power on the ministry. The geographical complexity of the Council does not prevent this. The competences desired by the Council are closely related to the actual tasks of the Council and the location of the Board of Governors in the instrument. Is it really the case that professional considerations such as the decentralisation or the preservation of the culture of the people should no longer be present? The question goes to the Center Party. And of course, it's not that only the department can find professionally qualified people. It's a very good thing that other agencies can do that. There's a question you can put to the Storting too. We have heard throughout this period the honeycomb term 'arm length distance' as the answer to our reflection of power-centering action by the Government. In the case of Norwegian Cultural Councils, the power perspective should be raised and the arm's length distance concept further analysed. How long is the road really going to be? And what consideration is given to cultural life in the light of the government's allocation of money and the criteria for which they are granted? It has been said that the new members should be better trained professionally and give the Council greater integrity in this respect. But what does that really mean in practical life? If this is to have some substance, it must also mean that the members of the Council should have a more extensive task and go deeper into the proceedings. And what will the relationship between advice and selection be? It is difficult to see that this does not mean a shift of power from a selection of professionals to advice – and therefore also closer to the department. Today, too, we have good reason to believe that there is some sort of hint from the Ministry of Culture to the Council of Culture about the desired priorities. In short, here are the questions in the queue. We have got a narrow tile of a case about the management of the most important agency in the instrument across the entire free field within Norwegian cultural life. This is short and good for thin. It is not that I am primarily concerned that the Workers' Party – despite good traditions – should appoint party traps or people loyal to the party as members of the Cultural Council. That's not the point of power concentration. The point is that in one case after another, we see that the department becomes the appointing authority, and so we recruit board members – or council members in this context – based on one environment and what one environment places on criteria. I think that over time is an unfortunate development that should be actively countered. Of course, it is possible to decide on this matter, as the representative Knutsen did. It's just that I don't think it's appropriate. It's far from reasonable to do that. So I'm dealing with what the opposition has gathered about by proposals, which are about to send the matter back to the government, let the council sit on, and that we get a real deal about this. It is not a big problem to continue the way you have appointed the Cultural Council so far. The Cultural Council is working very well, as far as I can see.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4957	The representative, Olemic Thommess, has addressed the proposals to which he referred.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4960	Norwegian Cultural Council is an important institution. The Council manages resources in a way that contributes to the creation of growth and development in Norwegian cultural life. Now the state councils are tightening their grip on Norwegian cultural councils. Knut Olav Åmås said it like this in the Evening Post on May 9th this year: ‘Gisske’s grip on Norwegian Culture Council is an answer to no questions asked, a solution to no one’s problems.’ That might have been well said. The main content of the Government's proposal is to shift power to the political leadership of the Ministry of Culture at all times. I believe it is a democratic strength that the elected assembly contributes to the composition of the Council of Culture. This is a democratic function we will lose with the Government's proposals. It has always been important to protect schemes that ensure an arm's length distance between the Council of Culture and the Ministry. With the Government's proposals, the Council of Culture becomes to a greater extent a governing body under the Ministry. It limits the political space of the Council of Culture and weakens the role of the Council as a cultural policy actor. I think it's unfortunate. We need a cultural council that has a certain space of action, and that can fill the role of corrective and developmentist – with a certain distance from government and greatness. Under the red-green government, cultural policy has become increasingly streamlined. Some cleanups have been positive, and we have supported them. But in the eagerness to clean up, the instrument must not be streamlined to such an extent that the flexibility, diversity and critical voices disappear. That's what's about to happen. It is important that artistic and cultural judgement is spread among several actors. The dissemination of power is necessary to strengthen the full breadth of Norwegian cultural life. If the Government appoints the entire Board of Governors, the spread of power is further weakened. The pattern we've seen over time from the Government. The independent position of the Culture Council is weakened. The management of budget proposals is more detailed than under previous governments, and the Culture Council is no longer involved in the main distribution of funds. The Christian People's Party wants a free and independent cultural life. The development we are now seeing, where more and more power is centralized to the ministry, is worrying. And we have to be especially vigilant in times when state grants are increasing. I have also noticed that many of the hearing bodies that gave their opinion on the report of the Løken Committee have pointed to this and are concerned about what is now happening. The Government proposes to reduce the number of members of the Board of Governors. But the Council of Culture has its value in ensuring diversity and breadth. Then the Council must be able, and have resources, to take care of the full breadth of art and culture. The Council shall capture new impulses from all over the country. Then there is no reason to do this slimming. A wide-ranging Council, with a sufficient number of members, is a strength, not a weakness. It is also important that the Council is given the opportunity to be professionally up-to-date and also to experience a part of the cultural life for which they will be involved and to consider grants. I hope that the Council of State will include it in the further assessment of that work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4987	The last two posts were very good and precise, so I just want to make a few comments. What we're invited to do today is a bit for bit-treatment of what was the onion committee report. It almost seems like the Council of State is dealing with this setting that Peer Gynt relates to the onion – it's just taking a little layer by layer, here and there, without getting to the nucleus. But the core we're going to reveal. The core is to gather as much power as possible in one place. It is not clear from the matter why it is so important to do this, or why it is so urgent. One would almost think that the council felt that there was a little burning under him, and that the power was in the process of slipping out. Because when the case-rapporteur says that there is no evidence that there are closer political ties between the magnificence-appointed members and the state-appointed members, there is something fundamental about power that has not been understood. The big difference is that you're bound to the same thing. Instead of different parties actually making suggestions, there is one person who has the opportunity to make all the proposals – all the power lies with the Council of State. That's the grip done here. If the representative Knutsen doesn't understand the difference between one having power or many having power, you can see that the roots of the Workers' Party are very well attached. The point for the Left in this area is that we actually need more independent decision makers. We need more people involved in the debate. Culture needs not only power but also counterpower. This is a very good example that it's not right for everyone.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e4998	The Government proposes changes to the rules on the appointment and composition of the Norwegian Cultural Council on the basis of a selection set up by the Ministry, the Løken Committee, which reviewed the arrangements for the award of State grants for cultural purposes. They proposed a number of changes, which are also relevant to the Council of Culture, including: changes in the rules governing the appointment and composition of the Board of Governors. The Løken Committee proposes that the members of the Council as a whole be appointed by the Ministry of Culture and the Church, possibly by the King, on a proposal from the Department, and that they be appointed on the basis of artistic and cultural criteria. They also propose that the number of members should be reduced and that the appointments should be rolling. Today, as you know, the Grand Duchy appoints four members and the King nine members, two of whom, on a proposal from the CS. In the hearings, this proposal received broad support from those who expressed their views on it. There is therefore no reason to conclude otherwise than that cultural life itself wants this change to be welcomed. The fact that the opposition in the Storting has a different view is, of course, only to take note of it, but it is not in that view that there is a particular representativeness in terms of what cultural life wants. If we see developments in a historical perspective, we see that the Council of Culture has changed its position from the mid-1960s, when it was established, until today. In 1965 there was no separate Ministry of Culture. The various cultural institutions were few and had few employees. Later we got our own Ministry of Culture, and we've got strong cultural institutions, with big trade unions. Municipalities and county councils have also had a strong development of cultural competence. The Cultural Council has become more a body of division on the basis of artistic judgement. In 1965, the Culture Council distributed a quarter of the entire cultural budget. Today, the percentage is approx. 7 – as far as I remember. The members of the Council should be independent and not represent organisations, institutions or parties. They shall work on the principle of arm’s length distance from both political authorities, from the market and from different interests. The Council should have full autonomy in its artistic discretionary exercise, and it should be the artistic and cultural discretion on which it is based when it comes to asking for the qualities and characteristics of its members. To date, the Council has been appointed by various actors. I would have had nothing against finding a solution that could have continued this, if we could still have ensured that it was the artistic and cultural judgements and the artistic and cultural qualities that would underlie the appointments. However, we have seen that excellent people from the great parties – I have also been involved in this – have entered the Cultural Council, perhaps not primarily from an artistic and cultural background, but more from a cultural policy point of view. Our idea is that we need to have a clearer line between who's going to be involved in cultural policy and who's going to be involved with the artistic discretion. Cultural policy shall be exercised by those who are either elected or who are elected by the people – and who can thus be cast by the people. This room shall conduct cultural policy. The Culture Committee in Stortinget shall conduct cultural policy. The Ministry of Culture must, of course, pursue cultural policy. The Culture Council will provide good cultural policy advice, but will primarily carry out an art and cultural assessment work – at arm's length away from us politicians. It is very difficult to find the red – or possibly the blue or the dark blue – thread in the opposition's policy. When we proposed that the Stortinget instead of the King in the Council of State should decide on the cultural policy priorities around the Council of Culture, the opposition said no. In the setting it is stated in a note from the opposition – Right, Christian People’s Party and Left – that ‘Norwegian cultural councils are no longer invited to participate in the main distribution of funds’. This is wrong. The Council is allowed to make a major request on how they want the priorities to be achieved. We have even introduced a meeting every year in advance of the budget, a meeting that the previous government did not like to implement. It also states that: «the entries in the budget proposals are more detailed than those previously on which they were based». That's right, but these detailed leaders were formerly with the King in the State Council – not in the Storting. So it's a democratisation – a more open process and a greater transparency – that is now underpinned. We support the settings of the Løken selection. But we've made some changes. We believe that the Council should be larger, in order to get a greater breadth, and that it is the King of the Council of State and not the Ministry who should appoint it, so that we also get a bigger process here, with more departments. We are pleased that the Storing joins these changes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5032	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5035	We have reason to believe that this is how it goes this time as it has done before, that the government gets what it wants – and gets this adopted. And then there's someone down here in the street who's going to start handling the case and working. If you look at the matter, you can see that the working method is described correctly, point by point – I tried to find it here, but I took the wrong position, so I did not get that far. In any case, we will have new members of the Council, who will be professionally competent and who will work from a professional point of view. They shall deal with the professional committees of the Council of Culture, which to date have been the professional centre of gravity. I wonder if the Council of State would like to explain to us whether the new Council will be given other and more extensive tasks in terms of professional assessments. What will be the relationship between the new members of the Council and the trade unions? I think someone will be very interested to hear more about that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5042	By definition, it is actually the Cultural Council that has the decisive authority, but it is clear that very many of the artistic evaluations are made in the trade unions. That's the way it's going to be. The Culture Council will have a composition that reflects the breadth of different artistic and cultural areas, i.e.: that you will not get many people from each sector. It may also be an objective in itself to find people who are cross-sectoral – not only having knowledge and commitment to one sector. It is said in the debate that this will result in more power for the department – perhaps even more personal power. Well, I could now, on the basis of today's rules, have appointed a majority of the Board of Governors, nine members – two of them right after the election of the CS – who would have been sitting for four years. Instead, we will now appoint five members to sit for six months, and five members to sit for two and a half years. This means that it is the great choice and the next majority – the next Minister of Culture and the next government – that will set their mark on this Council quite quickly. If I had been concerned that I would decide, I would have kept the order of the day.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5052	It was also a different perspective, about who supported cultural life, or what cultural life meant in this context. Here I recommend to the Council of State to read the consultation with the Association of Authors, which points to a number of issues raised by the opposition. But that's not what I was going to ask the Council of State for. I was going to grab something he said in his post, that no other solution had been found if you were to have cultural councillors who had artistic and cultural backgrounds. That cannot be understood correctly. You could imagine that you would assume that you would have artistic and cultural backgrounds, and that you would use such criteria. Still had to be able to find it, the Storing or other bodies than necessarily the Government. Does the Council of State really think that only the department is able to find that kind of Council member?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5059	No, I don't think so. But we have e.g. attended and discussed whether different cultural/artist organisations should appoint. The problem is, who? Which one? How many? I think a pretty quick one would get insurmountable conflicts between different artists' organisations if someone got the right to appoint, while others didn't get it. I rather believe in the model we have now found, where every second year we have a replacement of half of the Cultural Council, and that one can get a fairly wide debate on what kind of qualifications are needed to sit in the Council of Culture, and perhaps also a greater openness about the appointment of trade unions and reasons, perhaps, for the Council of Culture's assessment, etc. – get a greater transparency around the activity there. I believe at least that one finds disappearing few in the cultural life that want to maintain the system in which the four largest parties in the Grand Duchy individually find one person who is more a cultural politician than one art and cultural person – not to belittled by those who have been sitting there, all four of them could certainly be Minister of Culture, but artistic and cultural discretion is something other than cultural policy exercise.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5068	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 29. [[Fooding, see page 3825]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5087	At the request of the Committee on Family Affairs and Culture, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes to each group and 5 minutes to the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that there be an opportunity for a replacement of lines of up to five lines with replies after contributions by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, it is suggested that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5096	We are going to consider a proposal from the representatives of the National Museum Olemic Thommessen, Hans Olav Syversen and Trine Skei Grande that Stortinget should deal with a matter on the future arrangement of the National Museum, location, etc. The matter was referred to Stortinget on 24 March this year and is being dealt with today. I feel that I have to say that this is not due to the failure of the rapporteur to put the matter on the agenda. As the case rapporteur for this case, I have learned a little from each, but I will not come into this, except to say that in this case the committee was unable to gather on any matter. I would therefore like to briefly explain what the opposition means, and then I assume that the government parties will say something about their position. The proposers correctly point out that the future facility and location of the National Museum should be anchored in the Stortinget. In addition, there should have been an opportunity for the Storting to debate the matter. That hasn't happened. The revised budget provides an explanation of the matter, but it far from providing all the answers to the questions surrounding moving the collection to new premises. The public debate also shows that even among professionals and artists there is a great deal of disagreement about what should be done with the National Museum, and the commitment is enormous. Many hundreds of signatures have come to preserve the National Museum. The debate is taking place on most cultural sites and websites. A recent study has also been submitted to show that it is fully possible to make the present National Museum a modern museum. Unfortunately, the Council of State did not take the opposition's signal to wait to launch an international architectural competition for the construction of the Western Railway – despite the fact that the previous architectural competitions he announced did not result in anything. Had the Council of State waited until we had discussed this matter in Stortinget, he might have avoided Norway being watched with a little unprofessional eyes in international architectural environments. But here it was obviously more important to get a tree than to have newly built the foundation in Stortinget. We want a real case and a debate. We don't get that in this period, which we unfortunately think is very stupid. Something more is not to say in this case, and I take this up with me the suggestions we are making.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5120	The representative Karin S. Woldseth has taken up the suggestions she referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5123	Already in the 2008-2009 state budget, it was briefed on the plans for an expansion project on the West Railway and that an architectural competition would be launched as soon as possible if the Ministry’s quality assurance provided a basis for this. All parties except the Advance Party agreed – no reservation that the Government could not proceed with this work. This was possible following the agreement between the Oslo City Council and the Ministry of Transport on the purchase of the Western Railway Area — a columbial egg for the possibility of implementing previous decisions on the accumulation of visual art co-location and for the possibility of taking significant urban development action in Oslo. The representatives of the left, both in Stortinget and in the municipality, have adorned themselves with the fact that they have been a major driving force for the realization of this agreement, which means that the Munch Museum and the Deichman Library move to Bjørvika, and that the State buys back the West Railway Site and makes it available to a new national museum. The contract must be understood as a package in which the individual elements are linked. The western railway area was too expensive for the municipality to have lying down, and the municipality needs this money for, among other things. to realise their projects in Bjørvika. In the light of the positions on the left, I have to ask if it is such that the Left wants to cancel the agreement on the purchase of the Western Railway and thus create uncertainty about the move and construction of the Munch Museum and the Deichman library. Does the Left on Stortinget mean the same thing as the Left on Oslo City Council and the Port Government, which have put a lot of effort into realising the new buildings in Bjørvika? I have to ask Right Representative Olemic Thommess: is he prepared to stop the purchase of the West Railway Plot and thus be able to torpedo the Right and City Councillor's vision of Bjørvika and the fjord city? Is he prepared to send plans for a future national museum on desert migration? It is necessary to expect several years of treatment for the repeal of a safeguard decision on the West Railway. There are also other aspects to the Right-wing resolution. I understand that the Right believes that the peaced station building cannot be combined with a signal building, as the National Museum should be. Then it's a cross of thought that when the Right Fanatic Work of the Opera of the West Railway, that objection was never raised. The peaceful building, on the other hand, was to provide an exciting opera building. What's happened? Or does the Right have a hidden agenda for this proposal being promoted? Is that how the representative of the Right can explain it? This is almost an unreal matter. We're dealing with a Document No. 8-proposal requesting an explanation of the future facility and location of the National Museum and that this statement should be made at the latest in the context of the revised national budget. This is how the proposal is met – a broad presentation has been made in the revised national budget. Then comes the opposition with new proposals that can only aim to block the progress of a new building for the National Museum – a new building that everyone has wanted, with the exception of the Progress Party, which has always had a consistent view of not spending money on new buildings. I think it's sad that the opposition runs from something we've been together all along, and where the principle of collecting the visual arts to overmeasure was promoted by a Bondevik government. The majority propose that the proposal be annexed to the Protocol.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5144	The establishment of the new national museum has been quite a thorny matter – it has been under changing directors with staff problems and the construction work we are now up to. It is an important and central task to get the museum to say out of the ditch and get a drive forward and a constructive process around the new built on the West Railway. I can assure the representative Hildeng that the Right does not intend to stop or torpe that project. With regard to the question of the Right position when the Opera was there, I can also inform the representative Hildeng that it was also at the time that there was a debate about whether one should look at the provisions for the Opera. The undersigned, for example, was a public debater who thought that the Opera should be added to Bjørvika, precisely because it would provide a better framework for the building, which I now think we see with great emphasis in relation to the success of the opera building. May we do the same for a national museum in the West Railway Station! Once we have raised the question of peace, we are well aware that this is recently done because the architectural competition has come a long way. I think it's right to maintain our proposal for peace, also because this can be a topic in relation to parts of the building mass, in order to make a good adaptation. I remember that when Oslo municipality worked on the Deichman project on the site, the provisions of the settlement were a rather complicated aspect of the work. So we think it's important that we now get the process going, and we obviously don't think there should be any reversals in relation to the city council's agreement with the state and to building a large, comprehensive national museum in the western railway area. I also think it is quite possible, and there are examples – not many correctly, but there are examples – that you can combine old and new building masses. Another question is whether you should have it as a premise when you start such a project. I would probably think that it would have been a strength if you could see the old building mass as an opportunity more than a premise. The way it is now, it's been part of the architectural competition, and there's probably some legal leads that you're bound to and have to deal with in the future. I think that obviously means limitations in relation to what you can do. In this sense, it must be liberating for the Munch Museum and the Deichman library, which can now have an architectural contest where, in free play, good signal buildings can be created. We should remember that in this context we are actually going to make the future home for the nation's history of art and design. Which building would more require the armstroke that a well-located plot without too many leads should represent? Then it has been claimed that such a proposal will undermine the peacekeeping institute. I don't mean that. Freedom cannot be such a sacred cow that one should be cut off from being able to debate it on any occasion. Building a National Museum of Art is a unique task. It's not a recurring theme. It's not that we get this problem for all the national museums of art that we're going to build around the country. Retirement is a complicated matter in relation to today's legislation. If it takes as long as the representative Hildeng suggests, I don't know, but at least you have to rise to a very high level, and it's no easy matter to get it done. I think that's okay. That's where it belongs, too. The right does not go in any way to undermine the peacekeeping institute as such. Had this been any other building, an office building, a hotel, etc., it would of course not have been possible to come up with such a proposal at all. At least we want the best for a good national museum, which can appear with good qualities in terms of content and architecture. We do not want to contribute to the delay of this, but nevertheless maintain our proposal on the safeguard provisions, which I am addressing here now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5165	The representative Olemic Thommess has taken up the suggestion he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5168	It's getting late, but I want to make a short comment from the Christian People's Party on the pitch here. Following pressure from the opposition party, the government has given a review of a new national museum in the revised national budget. As you can see, the proposal, as formulated in the proposal for a representative, is partly in line with the proposal. However, there is still a number of open questions, and expertise meets counter-expertise when it comes to costs and technical possibilities. We therefore find it necessary to ask for a new issue for the future to the National Museum. The new building for the National Museum is a big investment. I'm sure as much as any party wants this to be a success. It eats up both the added ones and everyone who should have enjoyed this built for many years to come. It is possible that the Council of State has needed to show the power of action in this matter, but here it probably went a little over the stick and stone. I want to draw the parallel to when we treat opera bag. She was thoroughly treated, and the Stortinget discussed the matter in its full scope before the architectural competition was announced. We had several rounds in Stortingen about this, and that's exactly why she was so well anchored, even though one has less comments – a sentence here or a sentence there, with a small font in a thick state budget, with little mention. As you have been given more information about the matter and have received more information, it has also become clear that the Storting should have had this matter in a larger size. So of course, you can discuss whether you should have formulated clearer requirements here. Should one have done it this way? And has one asked the right questions at the right time? But at least one has found that there is a need for more information here, there is a need for more publications, and we should have had the case in its full width. Then I thought we could go back and look at just how opera bag was handled, how well it has been anchored, and how well we have got. We agree on that – at least most of us. This is how we would like the case to be dealt with by the National Museum.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5179	Before we started out with what are called majority governments, there was a tradition in this room that big nationallifts, important events, were actually done together. Now I learned this day that arrogance is an unparliamentary word, even when it appears to be ideology, so I shouldn't mention it. But here it is a fear of a debate that I do not understand. It seems like you're afraid to lose it, if it should come up. I have to ask the representative Hildeng to document his statements, because they were quite wrong and have to be rejected here, clearly. The left decided in 1995 to move the Munch Museum down to Bjørvika. That's what we've been fighting for. We also decided that Deichmanska should be on the West Railway. The unclear responsibilities relating to land, including: that the municipality of Oslo does not own the whole plot – it seemed here in Hildeng’s posts as if they do, but the state actually owns a large part of the plot – made it difficult to build Deichmanska there, and you chose to move it. When the two movements were made, it is not – I am aware – an agreement with the Municipality of Oslo that a new national museum should be built on the Western Railway. If there is such an agreement, it is very interesting, because in that case the agreement does not have the majority in Oslo City Council, because the City Council is not asked for advice. I know that the city council for Frogner, as this comes under, has been very critical of, for example. the large proportion of the office. Other regulatory authorities have also been critical of the large proportion of offices. This looks more like it's going to be a new foreign ministry, with a museum hung on it. Uncertainty has been raised in relation to the size of the U.D. and the amount of space they need. Uncertainty has also been raised about all analyses and calculations in this respect. If we're going to look at the need, the need in this area is that we need a new contemporary art museum. That's the big need. That is what needs to be resolved. That's what should have been done fast. An aggregate aggregate wants to collect all the national museums in this field. Then the question is whether it means that everything is to be collected in one building. We've already gone away from that principle, because we've built an architectural museum, an all-beautiful architecture museum, which is still part of the National Museum, seas if they live in their own building. There is no reason to say that the joint decision was also a joint decision on location — necessarily. I believe that it is quite incredible to say that the proposal is met through the revision. We specifically ask for one thing. We don't get that. We are given a presentation to the Financial Committee. If you thought it was right to come up with a case, we could adopt it in March, but instead you choose to train the whole case because you want to get away with an easy explanation. So finally, I noticed that SV does not sign up on the list of speakers. I know that Oslo SV shares the Left's view of what should be done. A few days before the government presented its vision, Oslo SV made the exact same decision to locate that left has. But it's probably the easiest thing to get away from this debate, not to stand for what you're doing. I wanted to have Oslo SV on the team, to care about this matter as well. What you're doing now is you don't care about the Storting – you don't want a treatment in Stortinget. You don't care about the city – you don't want to take the city on advice. You don't care about those who work in the system – a lot of people want to take care of the historic National Gallery. You don't care about the public debate either. In short, this is something you don't want to discuss – you don't want to listen to others, you just walk ahead. I think this is sad for the city. It is sad for the art, and it is sad for the public debate.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5194	There has been a broad consensus that the National Museum is important and that it is an institution that is the foundation of good conservation and dissemination of visual art in Norway. The construction of the National Museum — the merger of a number of institutions — was the responsibility of former governments. We inherited this, but we have followed up the work of these governments, even though it seems that some now fly from their old positions. There has also been a cross-political agreement that the National Museum should have good and appropriate building conditions. For many years it has been clear that the conditions of the National Museum do not meet the needs of the museum. It is simply a lack of knowledge to say that it is the contemporary art museum that labors the most. The museum that wears the most is the National Gallery with collections of art for billions of dollars, which does not keep out moisture, which does not have accessibility for disabled people, who do not have the opportunity to receive school classes, and who have conditions that are not worthy of these collections. If that's the kind of knowledge you're basing your point of view on, it's no wonder you're going out. The investigation work has been based on several assumptions: firstly, to obtain good building conditions for securing and preserving the museum’s collections, and secondly, to facilitate the museum’s research activity and a variety of dissemination activities. The buildings shall facilitate this, including the best possible use of them by the public. The size of the population has been kept continuously informed about developments throughout the process. We have followed the same procedures as in all other building cases, except for one, the Opera, where it was chosen another race. The opera was an extraordinary thing. It has never, until today, emerged from Stortinget that this matter should be dealt with differently from other building matters. The investigation process has followed the quality assurance system applicable to State investment projects. The project has systematically analysed the strengths and weaknesses of the options to be considered. The conclusions of the investigation work and of the external quality assurance system are quite fundamental and categorical that the option on the Western route meets both the needs of the museum itself and is likely to be about. One billion dollars is more reasonable. So here you say you have an uncertainty of 45 pst. Yeah, that's right. That means it could be just 550 million. kr in favour, but it could also mean that there is NOK 1.5 billion in advantage, because the uncertainty margin goes both ways. But the most important thing is what's best for the museum. The tullin loop was discovered by several previous governments. All architectural competitions were put in a drawer. It's time we got a project that can be realized. I'm glad that many people are interested in the National Museum, and that we're getting a new museum. This is the way to do it. At the same time, it is important that the national gallery and the building used in a good way. But it will be a fundamental mistake for us seven to eight years in advance to conclude on what that building will be used for. Just there the city has to be invited to the discussion. It is precisely there that different proposals have to be put on the table, and that is precisely where many people have to be allowed to express their opinion, so that this will be at the best of both the city and cultural life. I am pleased that the Right shows responsibility in this matter – however, with the exception of the buildings of the West Railway, which we disagree on – but that they are actually on the basis of what the City Council has also stated, namely that the State should buy back the land. This is an agreement of 170 million. kr. This is not something you can swing the jacket with after the wind, as Left does. Should we buy the plot, or should we not? The left has to say something about it. The whole plan of the Left to add the Munch Museum and Deichmanska to Bjørvika is based on the fact that the state buys back the plot. But instead of answering that question, Trine Skei Grande leaves both the hall and the debate, and it's probably symptomatic of how to deal with such a case. We don't play land politics in Oslo, and we don't play national museum expansion. These are big things. Had Erling Lae and the City Council been close to the Left's approach to this matter, this would have been impossible to implement. Fortunately, the City Council has a completely different responsibility. I remember when we had a press conference where we presented this last summer. Ola Elvestuen ran around like a boy and was to take credit for what Erling Lae and I had come up with. He thought it was his idea – the Deichman and Munch Museum of Bjørvika and the National Museum of the West Railway. We have quotes about how important this was, and how correct this was. Now the left has experienced some resistance, and then the jacket swings with the wind. The left must not confuse holding on to a position over a few weeks and months of being arrogant.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5218	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5221	If it is such a difficult matter as the Council of State now said from the pulpit, it should have been debated in Stortinget. But that's not what I was supposed to ask. Among very many and among the heavyweights in cultural life in Norway, there is considerable resistance to the national gallery being moved. It's a debate, it's a sign campaign, etc. Is the Council also willing to listen to what the opponents of the national gallery move have to say, and can this affect the plans?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5228	I am familiar with the campaign «Maintain the National Gallery» and the commitment that is for this historic building to be used for good cultural purposes. I fully support that, but to imagine that we are going to build a very national museum on the West Railway, which is going to accommodate contemporary art and then fully upgrade the National Gallery of the Historical Art Collection, there will be two construction projects instead of one. If that's what the Advance Party is fishing for here, they won't get it from me. I don't think the Progress Party either. I believe that we are going to build a large national museum, so we can still use the National Gallery of Art with other purposes and get an upgrade of the National Gallery adapted to those purposes. But we need one national museum, and it's important that we get on the West Railway. It is realistic and then we do not risk putting the architectural competitions in a drawer, as in the previous two projects.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5235	I'm just going to make sure the councillor that I'm not going to leave him, and he doesn't have to be anxious about it, sail if anyone carries papers around the corner. But I want to ask you a very important point here. One is that I would like to know if the Council of State could prove that the Left has supported this move through opinions. I was very specific – and Ola Elvestuen was very specific – that the state's mess had no meaning until we got a case in the hall. We actually thought that we were going to get at that time, but it turned out to be too naive of us. But I'm because the state buys back the plot, because we're building a contemporary art museum there. But are there any other agreements? Is there a blank authorisation agreement between the City Council and the State that the State can be allowed to build what you want, that you can regulate what you want? Is there an agreement on the size of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? Is there an agreement on how large the museum should be? I would like to clarify what that agreement actually contains.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5244	I just have to say that the representative of Skei Grande's lack of knowledge in this matter is absolutely astonishing. UD's land is not involved in this at all; there is another part of this land area. So there's no relationship between the City Council and the State as to what the land that the U.D. might want to build on is going to be used. The deichman's empty is more than enough for the deichman. When Skei Grande is standing on the pulpit here and saying that it was too difficult to build Deichmanska on that plot, it's simply wrong. So even that's not true. So if it's this kind of level of knowledge you're basing your point of view on, it's not strange that it's going completely wrong. It is well and good to build your own contemporary art museum on the western runway, and then keep the National Gallery and the Art Industry Museum, but why did the Left torment and plague all these institutions to merge? They've been working for seven years to make this a unit, and when you're finally going to get into a common house, get the whole synergy out of it, get common professionalism, get common collections, get common administration, you say, no, we don't do that anyway!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5251	I would like to repeat my question, and then I would like to point out that the Council of State misguided me. I didn't say Deichman's ass was too tight. I said that the Deichmans had such an advanced ownership structure that it was difficult to reach an agreement with the state, and that's what it stranded on. I know that, because I sat with these negotiations, I was the City Council in Oslo at that time. Then you might be able to mute the lack of knowledge. I also want to point out that there is nothing about an organisational aggregation that means that everything should be in the same house. It's incredibly petty to think that you should go to the museum when you're going to a museum. But I would like to repeat my question, what I really asked: Is there any other agreement between the City Council and the Government than a land purchase agreement? Is there an agreement on what this land should contain? Is there a blank authority that the city is going to go for a museum here anyway?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5263	It's too wrong to use the Greatness Chair for purely elementary information. There was no complicated ownership relationship with the Deichmans. It was owned by the Municipality of Oslo. That's what we're buying back for $170 million. kr. It was owned in its entirety by the Municipality of Oslo, it didn't seem complicated at all. For what it is to be used for, it is regulated for cultural purposes. That's why the Municipality of Oslo is sitting with that plot and can't use it for other things. It is regulated for specific purposes. Had the Municipality of Oslo been able to use this freely, the situation might have been slightly different, then it would not have been so precarious for the Municipality of Oslo to sell it to someone who could use it for the cultural purposes for which the site was regulated. Let me in the middle of this saying, since this is probably the last article in a cultural debate in this period -- no, there's another post from the Olemic Thommess, then I'll have the opportunity to say it later. Dear me, I am so glad that Erling Lae, Olemic Thommess and the government parties in such big things actually stand together, and I see the role of the Left in this as very, very special.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5272	Several have not asked for the word for a line. The following speakers shall have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5277	In conclusion, just a few comments from my side. I think that the Council of State should understand that what was done, that is, the move from Tullinløkka to the West Railway, is such a great deal that the Storting could have needed a review of the consequences, and that we could have a better political anchoring of the consequences that this had. The debate we have now, and the debate that is outside the house, is marked by the fact that this matter is not well enough politically anchored, and it is a risk sport for this type of building. We know a lot about this from the history of similar construction. One of the big changes that are there is that the national gallery's current building remains, so to speak. It was an integral part of the project we had at Tullinløkka. Then you move to the West Railway, and then the old building mass becomes "hanging in the air". I'm probably in disagreement with the Council of State that that building deserves to be put into open discussion what it's going to be used for in the future. We also know that there is a building that requires considerable refurbishment and organisation to enable it to be used, for example. art purposes in the future. I am pleased to hear that the project on the West Railway is getting so much cheaper. Perhaps the National Gallery could be included in the National Museum's project and actually find the means to do so. As Right sees it, this is an interesting building with a long history of art presentation. The classical art collections, at least I think, suffer something of often being referred to some of the fixed collections, which are built on given premises. Perhaps in the National Gallery we could get a unique solution with alternating exhibitions within the classic area. This, I think, is a topic that should be further worked on, and seek to find a solution where we actually get a strengthened national museum: implement the plans envisaged in terms of content, volume and construction on the western runway, but actually also expand the project with the old National Gallery building. At least the right would be prepared to go into a creative process around the extra resources this would lead to. By doing such an operation, the restoration work on the old building of the National Gallery need not be carried out as if it were the permanent museum. It is likely that the price will be lower than it would be if you were to decide to build a new one in that context.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5292	I agree with much of what the representative Olemic Thommess said now. I actually think it would have been possible to make some broad political compromises relating to this area if you had been willing to hear, if you had been willing to discuss, if you had been willing to consider anything of an idea that others have had, or a local commitment to a house that means too many. I actually think it would have been possible. But you feel that you haven’t even come up because you’ve made up your mind. Yes, the Council of State has actually decided in spite of local party decisions in this area. It is an act that does not lead to compromises on such important matters, which I believe we should strive for, but it is clearly a political procedure on which we disagree. Then I just have to remind you that the regulatory authority is in the municipality. If the municipality wants to re-regulate an empty site, the municipality will re-regulate the site. That's what I think hangs in the air after today – whether there is some kind of agreement between the City Council and the State that ensures a type of regulation, or is it just a purchase contract? In that case, there's a lot of transparency about what can happen to that area. I also have to remind you that Oslo is not characterized by the same things that the state is characterized by the past. You don't have a majority bureau. You have a city council that has to go to the city council and create a majority. Multiplicity is created through dialogue – a rather fun and exciting process in a democracy – and it is likely to happen in the Municipality of Oslo as well. Swivel if one has bought a land and sails if it is regulated for a cultural purpose, it is clear that the city will have an opinion on how it should be built, how it should appear, and how the balance should be on the land. There's still a lot of x's in this system, and they might have been wiped out by a really big deal and a real dialogue between the parties about what's important. When you travel to a museum around Europe, you can see that it is not just the new buildings that are able to cope with the challenges. You see amazing old buildings in use, and they appear as amazing, modern galleries. You can also see old barley, such as. Tate Modern in London, which is one of the most beautiful museums, in my opinion, built in an old power station. There is nothing to suggest that everything should be moved to a new building, and there is nothing to suggest that many of the old buildings — much older than the National Gallery — cannot act as fantastic scenes for exhibitions around Europe. I don't understand why you shouldn't include it in the calculation, when you're going to do one as big rock as you do here.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5303	I understand less and less of this, because now it's talking about an old factory clock. Shall we build somewhere else? Is this what the Left proposes? Is there another local you have in mind, is it finding another old factory building where this museum is to be laid, or are you now just out with beers about how to do this? A national museum is not built by bedding tanks. It is built by decisions, by appropriations, by architectural contests, by agreements and by predictability. So Skei Grande was able to get up here and say the wrong thing again. It is not that Oslo Municipality can freely re-regulate the land they purchased from the State, to Deichmanska, because it was purchased on condition that it was to be used for cultural purposes. That was also the basis for the land pricing when Oslo municipality bought it from the State. That's what was the basis then. So it wasn't just for Oslo municipality to re-regulate it. The representative has no problem with the matter, and it must be a minimum when you take a completely different line from what the Storting goes for, and changes its meaning. It's okay to change your mind, but based on knowledge is not stupid: that Deichmanan was too small – wrong, that the U.D. has something to do with the Oslo Santa Claus – wrong, that Deichmanan had a complicated ownership relationship – wrong, that one could freely reregulate in relation to cultural purposes – wrong, that it is the Contemporary Art Museum that needs the most new building – wrong. Five mistakes in half an hour's debate have been quite well done to me! I think that's a new big-time record, and it's a good thing it's coming in the last week. This is the biggest building issue in the cultural field since the Opera. Then you can't just turn the jacket after the wind even if some hundred demonstrators call and send e-mail to Trine Skei Grande or the rest of us. Then you have to be a little shaved. You have to show some predictability. I just have to ask Skei Grande: why was it then to do for the previous government to melt these different institutions, the Museum of Contemporary Art, the National Gallery, the Museum of Art Industry, the Ariktek Tower and the National Exhibitions, together in one association, against which there were at least great protests, if not to get out of that synergy in the joint workshop, common audiences, joint organisation for disabled people, joint restoration work, common infrastructure, etc.? That's now we can really get the positive out of that aggregation, not just the troubled, which has been largely dominating so far. It would be very nice if Skei Grande could say why it was important to put this burden on all the employees in the National Museum for so many years, when what was supposed to be the light in the tunnel, that's a great communal building, as management wanted, as the employees wanted, now has to be pushed into the blue. That's what I think is to keep people fooled.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5317	Step Skei Grande has had the word twice and gets the word for a short comment, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5320	If the council stops telling lies about me, I'll stop telling the whole truth about him. The point here is that we, as the Council of State, have supported that consolidation. But that combination doesn't necessarily mean everything's going to be in one local. That combination actually leads us to build our own architectural museum, so everything is never going to be in the same room. The Architektur Museum works perfectly. But what you're not willing to discuss is that the old buildings also have a value, the old buildings were actually part of the solution earlier. You just put a line over that and you don't care about anything. So here we see the Council of State as the Council of State really is, and as the Council of State wants to act. But with his last posts now, it's clear that he's making this a campaign case. He makes it an electoral campaign whether to go forward in this way or whether to actually take the city, artists and employees who don't have the same opinion as the Council of State, on the run. I think we'll be able to go into a campaign with that. I'm at least very comfortable with it.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5329	Olemic Thommess has had the word twice and gets the word for a short remark, limited to 1 minute.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5332	I would like to return to the position of the old building mass in the National Gallery. I did not get an answer to that. Now, when the Council of State is going to have the floor, I ask for a point of view as to whether the Council of State will actually take some initiative to incorporate the current National Gallery into the new National Museum, whether he can imagine going ahead with a work to see how it can be done, and how to care for the old building mass also for exhibition purposes, or whether it really is such that he has intended to leave the old building mass – I had almost said in terms of happiness and piety – a kind of open discussion about what to find out about it. I have heard many good suggestions, ranging from the legal reading room to more liberal proposals. But anyway, I want the Council's answers to these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5337	Let me first admit that I was wrong. I thought that five errors in half an hour's debate were the record that could be set. It was wrong. There were six, for Skei Grande said in his speech that the merger has led to the construction of the Architektur Museum. That's wrong. The construction of the Architektur Museum was determined before the merger and is done in spite of the merger rather than because of it, among other things. with a generous private gift for the Architektur Museum. So we get the correction: Six errors in half an hour's debate are a new Norwegian grossing-up record. So to the Olemic Thommess: Yes, I'm just as concerned as him that the National Gallery should be used for reasonable purposes. Some of the building can actually also be used for artistic purposes, i.e. visual arts and textiles, which require a higher humidity than today, without major structural changes. I guess that's about. 65 pst. by the building, as far as I remember, which can simply be arranged for it. The rest of the building must be used for other purposes which do not depend on the type of moisture, in order not to take huge alterations. It can also be used for historical art. It's State Building that owns this built, so we're sitting in the driver's seat and deciding this. One advantage of our building entirely new on the West Railway is that – unlike in Sweden, where they are now thinking of restoring their old national gallery, which is as expensive as a new one, and where they probably have to shut down their entire business for seven years in order to have the old house restored – we can have the business fully up-to-date in the National Gallery of the Week, that month or the period it takes to move to a fully operational national museum on the West Railway. Then we can quickly start the necessary restoration work in the National Gallery to facilitate a new activity in it. But we have some years to discuss it. When I say that we're going to get a recording, that we're going to invite the city, that we're going to invite artists and cultural workers and artists' organisations, it's not going to happen on happiness and piety. It must be a free debate with many different proposals to which it is invited. With this proposal, the customs hatch will also be preserved as the open, beautiful place that the city has wanted, as many have wanted. You have an amazing park area behind the University. You have the Historical Museum on the other side of the square. This could be a great area in Oslo, which I think will be appreciated by Oslo citizens and travellers. Finally, let me say that it's rarely boring when the cultural committee breaks loose in the main hall. It's also that a government never gets better than the opposition pushes us, challenges us and stimulates us to, not rhetorical or operational. Since this is the last round we have in the Culture Committee during this period, I would like to thank the members of the Culture Committee for engaging and fresh debates and good cooperation on many major and important issues. The two things we had earlier today, the digitisation message and the library message, also show that we are working together on a lot of big and important issues. I am sure that when the election campaign goes down, we will also find a good deal together in the case of the National Museum. Thank you for your cooperation over four years.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5356	Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 30. [[Fooding, see page 3825]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5373	At the request of the Transport and Communications Committee, the President will propose that speaking time be limited to 5 minutes for each group and 5 minutes for the Council of State. Furthermore, the President will propose that five lines of response be given to comments by members of the Government within the allocated speaking time. Furthermore, the President proposes that those who have to sign up to the list of speakers in addition to the allocated speaking time should have a speaking time of up to 3 minutes. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5382	As the rapporteur, I would like to take the majority position that all the parties, except the Advance Party, are behind. I expect the Progress Party to present its comments and take up its own proposal. I would like to start by pointing out that this matter was raised at the end of the spring session, and that two of the parties in the Committee, the Party of Advancement and the Right, in a minutes meeting of the Transport Committee on 8 June, as set out in the case, refuse to deal with several cases due to a short period of time. In the Ministry of Justice and Police's answer to the questions raised by the members of the Progressive Party in the Committee, the background for the short term is affected. I would like to stress that the majority of the Committee has shown great goodwill in order to have the matter dealt with. So to the matter itself. In December 2004, the Storting decided that the Ministry of Justice and Police could conclude contracts in 2005 for the first extension of a common digital radio connection for emergency and emergency services in the police districts of Follo, Rome, Oslo, Asker and Bærum, Søndre Buskerud and Østfold. In the treatment of St.prp. No 30 for 2006-2007, the Stortinget decided to launch a first step in the development of a new digital emergency network in Norway, and the Ministry of Justice and Police was authorised to conclude an extension contract in the rest of the country, subject to the condition that nationwide deployment cannot be started until the first stage evaluation has been completed and the Stortinget may have adopted further development. In addition to these cases, the size has been informed about the status and progress and the handling of emergency networks in several cases during the period. The issue we are going to discuss today is the proposal that Stortinget authorises the King to increase the cost framework for the first stage of construction of the emergency network by up to 110 million. kr in relation to the current cost framework for the first stage of construction and the total framework. The negotiated cost framework for a two-step nationwide deployment of emergency networks was in St.prp. No 1 Appendix No 3 for 2004–2005 estimated at DKK 3.6 billion. The reasons why there may be a need to increase the framework are: the contractor performing the contract, Nokia Siemens Networks Norge AS, has been further delayed in relation to the previously notified sites has revealed the need to modify specifications that there is an increased resource need in DNK for the follow-up of the supplier there are increased costs associated with the deployment of the sites there is a potential need for increased capacity in the network and potential needs related to enhanced coverage of special features beyond what is specified in the contract there are currency fluctuations; The Committee has been notified of delays in the project in several cases from 2006 until now. Based on the current progress plan, it is now expected that the police will deploy the emergency network in operational use from no earlier than the fourth quarter of 2009. The majority of the Committee will express strong concern that the emergency network cannot be put into service as planned. Delays are very unfortunate for society and emergency situations, which are in great need of the new digital radio link to replace the existing analogue radio networks. The floors have now waited a very long time for a new emergency network. There has not been a particular investment in the updating of existing networks at this time. The majority of the Committee therefore considers it important that the first stage of development is now completed and put into operation within the current progress and cost plan. The DNK is responsible for the deployment and management of the emergency network. They shall ensure that binding progress plans are followed up by the supplier so that emergency budgets can plan to carry out their tasks as far as possible in line with assumptions and carry out ongoing assessments of the cost developments of the project. We assume that this work will be followed up further, and that the Ministry of Justice and Police will put in place any necessary measures to complete stage 1 of development within the current progress plans and cost frameworks. The Committee considers it important to remain informed about the development of the project, and therefore calls on the majority to provide a state-of-the-art state with a progress plan and a cost overview for stage 1 of development in the context of the submission of the State budget for 2010. Finally, I would like to stress that it is important that an emergency network be set up to provide society, the public and the public with the necessary security so that the emergency and emergency missions can be properly managed, and that the emergency network operates according to their intentions. The size has therefore decided to carry out an evaluation of the first stage of development before any decision on nationwide development is taken. It is described in the case that some evaluation activities have already been carried out and started. It is assumed that the evaluation will be carried out as foreseen and submitted for examination before any further development is adopted. I also refer to the setting and the committee's recommendation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5437	After the discussion in the previous cases one should be careful to say that the Government is arrogant, but there is no doubt that one can imagine it when one repeatedly experiences that this matter comes back to the Storting and is driven through the Storting with less than 14 days of treatment! In fact, it's about to begin to look like the Storting has become a dispatch office for the Government in these kinds of cases. You can also start to wonder at which state council to answer. You will experience when you send written questions, that there is one government council that answers. When you get to Stortinget, there's another government council that answers to this important matter. I think it is amazing that you choose to run a case through the Storting in less than 14 days. So you get one day from the response of the Department and the Council of State to the Stortinget case to be given in Stortinget. That is the period of time chosen by the majority of the political groups in the United Kingdom in this matter. I think it's very regrettable. I also find it regrettable that even when you have to ask additional questions, you get very short time on it. And when the Storting is also going to deal with the National Transport Plan between the day you have received the answer and the day of delivery in the Committee, it's going to be difficult to follow and quality assurance of the answers you get from the Council of State, but I assume, of course, that the answers given are thorough. It seems reliable and good what is coming, but of course we have to bear in mind that the answers given by the Council of State are correct. I think this was important when I heard the case rapporteur, who made a clear statement on the matter. So they say that this is everyone now agreeing that we have to go on, but it's not very long since the Health Director was out and said that the health department is actually considering withdrawing from all the cooperation because you're worried about that solution, and that you might not be able to get to the technical solutions you need to make this a good emergency network, as the employees and all the users really need to do their job the best they can. I also want to say that there are major challenges to the cost picture in the case. We know, among other things: that Lower Rome-rich fire and rescue services have carried out calculations showing that at least there is a cost increase of up to 75 pst. And that was not what was suggested the time you chose to say yes to this. So there are big challenges here. We also agree that it is important to get this case in place, and make sure that the web comes into place as quickly as possible, but I hope that this is not the review melody, that you get cases directly to Stortinget and get a disproportionately poor time to deal with the matter. And, as I said, when the case was dealt with in 2006, there was a very short time for treatment in Stortingen – also at the time it was 14 days. As I have said, the matter has been highlighted several times, among others. in the 2009 state budget, but there is very little. I've gone through all the government budgets, and it's very little about the emergency network. It's on from one and a half to less than one side. It says something about the emergency network. There is very little information that will be given to Stortinget. So I think the documents and documentation available are very poor and not satisfactory when we repeatedly experience new delays for the introduction of the new emergency network. We've been assured several times that now you think you have things on your hands, and now things are about to get in place, but now you're saying that you expect to start in 2009 at the earliest. We have heard quite different timetables in the past. I think that when you still don't have it in place, and there's still a lot of uncertainty, it's sad that the majority of people don't think it makes sense for the Storting to be properly oriented along the way, so that you can be sure that the progress you're always hearing is on the run, is actually on the run as well, and that you get the emergency network in place during 2009. I'm afraid you're a long way out in 2010 before you really get it in place. As I said, it's an incredibly important tool that those who work in the rescue settings have to put in place, so that they get the emergency network they've been promised for a long time, that it actually comes in place so that they can start using it. I would like to refer to the proposal of the Advance Party in the matter.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5461	The representative, Mr. Bård Hoksrud, has taken up the suggestions he referred to.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5464	Let me first say that I understand the representative Hoksrud well. This isn't a lucky way to deal with so extensive issues, and if we had the information before, we would have come to the Stortinget earlier, or if the Storing Session had been longer, which I think the few people want, we would have had better time. So there's been unfortunate circumstances around this. There is no wish from the Government to have such a short procedure in Stortinget. The more important it is, of course, that we are given the full opportunity to come back to this matter in the State budget. It is clear that we have put our heads on the block if we have provided information that would prove to be inaccurate, so here the whole Stortinget will have the full opportunity to go closer to the various elements when the matter is dealt with on later occasions. It's in St.prp. No 67 for 2008-2009, the status of the deployment of the emergency network. It has now become clear that there are further challenges and delays to the project. The Ministry became aware of the need for an increased cost framework at such a late stage that it was not possible to propose a power of attorney to increase the cost framework at an earlier date. It would have been natural to revise it, but then we had not had enough knowledge and had not been given the quality assurance of the information we had. The most important thing is that Stortinget is still behind us getting a new emergency network. It shall replace the existing analogue radio network and contribute to the smooth functioning of emergency and emergency seats. This is a big investment. It's a huge effort to make sure that our emergency situations can do a good job. The State concluded a fixed price contract with Siemens AS. The contract shall be conducted by Nokia Siemens Networks Norway AS. The supplier shall carry out the planning and deployment of the radio network, provide equipment for fire, police and health communication centres and radio terminals, and further ensure that all technical components operate separately and collectively, build up and provide continuous operator services over the lifetime of the emergency network, provide training and manage the implementation of the system in the three floors. An evaluation of the first stage relating to contractual tests, technology, utility and use, economy and project implementation shall be carried out before the Government submits, where appropriate, proposals to the Stortinget for decisions on further development. The Ministry was authorised to conclude a contract for the development of the first stage with a cost framework of 900 million. kr. Most of the radio network in the first stage is built. In Eastfold and Follo police districts, where the radio network is planned to be used first, 81 out of 84 stations are built. There is testing of all functions, and whether the coverage in the area is good enough. The police have used nine of their ten communication centres against the regular telephone network and the old radio system with good results. Several fire and health communication centres are expected to be delivered during 2009 and approximately 5 300 radio terminals have been delivered. The challenges and delays of the project are now particularly related to uncertainty and progress in the development of fire and health communication centres. It is still expected that the radio network will be completed during 2009 and that the police will take emergency networks into operational use from no earlier than the fourth quarter of 2009. The delays have led to the need for the State to maintain its project organisation for the follow-up of the supplier longer than planned and with major resource efforts. In addition to the supplier’s delays in the deployment and commissioning of the radio network, challenges have been attached to the development and delivery of all the agreed functions contained in the contract. In addition, changes and additions to the specifications of the health and fire communication centres have been identified. These challenges cannot be resolved within the current cost framework of the project and the changes and additions are deemed necessary to enable the network to be put into operation. The delay of the supplier and the need for change of the emergency budgets may result in higher costs than previously foreseen, and it is therefore likely that the first stage of development will not be completed within the current cost framework and that a mandate was therefore needed to increase the cost framework by the various underlying conditions: changing specifications increased resource needs of the directorate increased costs of the networks possible need for increased capacity of the network possible needs related to enhanced coverage of special features, and exchange rate fluctuations Based on our calculations, an overall additional demand of up to 110 million is indicated. kr. The final need will be assessed and clarified during the summer of 2009, following negotiations with the supplier by the Emergency Communications Directorate. Any increase in costs is not expected to result in the need for increased appropriations in 2009 since the delay has led to the non-fulfilment of the framework already allocated to the budget. Of course, we come back with the matter in a more thorough explanation of what happened during the summer when the budget was processed in the autumn.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5507	It's going to be line change.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5510	The Council of State has been clear that very clear and clear contracts have been concluded in terms of responsibilities. I would like the Council of State to explain in more detail why it is so that it incurs State costs of over 100 million. kr extra, because the suppliers have problems. Is this not the cost that should have been borne by the suppliers, as they are unable to deliver what they have ordered? I also want to ask the Council of State questions about the fact that in our first letter to the Council of State we asked him to clarify the time perspective. Then we got no time indication, while in the next answer we got a time indication. When you know that there have been problems with the emergency network over several years, I don't quite understand why the department had to have a new investigation into whether or not to file a case for the Stortinget. Wouldn't it make sense to brief the Storting immediately, so that you would have known that it could actually be a matter on the way to Stortinget?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5517	As far as I remember, the Progress Party asked for a guarantee when this could be in place. We can't do that. There is no doubt that the supplier has major problems with progress. When we look at the large differences in the different tenders, I think that the price that the selected supplier gave will subsequently prove to be problematic for the supplier as well. That's a good price for the state. Of course, there is a legal possibility that we can withdraw from the contract because the contract is broken, and then we can save the money we have left. But we consider this contract to be so beneficial for the state and the emergency network and so important for the state and the security of Norway that we want it to be implemented. That is why we also want to have this framework, so that we are confident that we will get this into port, partly by increasing government expenditure by delays, but also to discuss with the supplier how we can get this in place. This is a huge promise for those who work with our safety and security for daily, and it is important that we get it implemented. This authority will ensure that we get this safely in port.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5526	I want to thank the Council of State for the answer, but I want to challenge the Council of State on the operating costs, because the Council of State said nothing about it. We know that the Lower Rome-rich fire and rescue services have calculated that the costs for municipalities will increase by 75 pst. for the introduction of the new emergency network. It's far from the assumptions that were there. I believe that in many municipalities you can eventually risk having to resort to the emergency network in the fire and rescue services and in health services if you do not receive compensation in some way from collapse and government. I was wondering if the Council of State could say anything about what he thinks about the huge cost increases.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5534	These are things that naturally belong to the evaluation round before we finally decide to carry out the entire project. I think we have to assume that the networks in a modern society are very vulnerable, and that we need to have a higher level of safety, especially in terms of operational safety. All of us who use standard mobile phones know how annoying it is when the contact is broken, and we suddenly become without coverage because the net is down. We simply can't afford that in terms of fire and health, the most important security features of our lives. We know that society is becoming more vulnerable, so this is a cost we have to take. Of course, we have to discuss how this is to be distributed across the various levels of government, etc., but we will have plenty of time for that. I am pleased that Stortinget has given a broad agreement that we should establish such a network. I believe that in retrospect it will prove that the government, at least in terms of the first step, has got a contract that will prove very favourable to the state at price. I am sure Hoksrud agrees with me that it is important to use public money in a good way.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5541	Several have not asked for the word for a line. Several have not asked for the floor on case No. 31. [[See page 3826]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5551	The size should now vote in the cases on today's map.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5659	In the course of the debate, 13 proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Åge Starheim on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposals No. 3–6, by Åge Starheim on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposals No. 7-11, from Åge Starheim on behalf of the Progress Party and Right-wing Proposal No. 12, by Åge Starheim on behalf of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, the Verification of Credentials and Immunities 13, from Kari Lise Holmberg on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5694	There is a vote on proposal No. 12 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to propose its own administrative court/supervisory body to deal with complaints in accordance with municipal plan decisions.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5709	We shall vote on the motions for resolutions. 7-11, from the Party of Advancement and the Right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5751	We shall then vote on the motions for resolutions. 3–6, from the Party of Advancement, Right and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5791	The proposals Nos shall now be voted on. 1 and 2, from the Party of Prosperity, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5816	I do not think the vote on proposal No. 13 went exactly right.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5821	The President will then propose that there be a new vote on proposal No. 13, from the Right and Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5847	During the debate, Mr Anundsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Board of Directors requests the Government to draw up a proposal to amend the salary fixing for officials in order to make it equal to the system for judges in the Supreme Court.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5872	During the debate, nine proposals have been put forward. It's the proposals No 1–5, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left proposal No. 6, by Øyvind Korsberg on behalf of the Progress Party, Right and Left proposals No. 7-9, by Ingebrigt S. Sørfonn, on behalf of the Christian People's Party There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 7-9 from the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5913	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 6, from the Advancement Party, Right and Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requests the Government to impose, as soon as possible, on a regular basis a call for tenders for the purchase of a public service pension.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5927	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1–5, from the Party of Advancement, Right, Christian People's Party and Left. Proposal No. 1 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e5997	Six proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's the proposals No 1 and 2, by Arne Sortevik, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right-wing Proposals No. 3–5 proposals are included on page 6, second column of the setting, from Arne Sortevik on behalf of the Progress Party The President pointed out that the last proposal – which then became proposal No. 6 – in case of an error, have not been included under item 2 in the setting, under suggestions from minorities.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6047	The proposals are then put to the vote. 1 and 2 from the Progression Party and the Right. Proposal No. 1 sounds:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6090	The President assumes that the Advance Party and the Right wish to vote against points 1 to 3 and that the Advance Party wishes to vote against points 4 and 5.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6113	During the debate, Mr Sortevik put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6155	During the debate, Mr Sortevik put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party. Proposal No. 1 sounds: «The size consents to the construction of the project and to the implementation of the measures referred to in St.prp. No 78 on the Bømlo package, based on the full state funding of the projects and actions related to the national road network.’.» [[2008-2009]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6196	During the debate, Mr Sortevik put forward two proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6239	During the debate Arne Sortevik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: «The trial consents to the construction of the project and the implementation of the actions referred to in St.prp. No 85 on Step 1 of the Environmental Package for Transport in Trondheim. [[2008-2009]] The size assumes that this is based on full government funding of the projects and actions mentioned in the present national road network and without the use of tolls and or rush time charges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6280	The right has announced that they will vote against the vote, and so will the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6295	During the debate, Mr T. Nesvik put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party. The proposal has been distributed in the Chamber. The President has taken the view that an overall committee is behind the proposal put forward by the chairman of the Committee and that the proposal for a decision under II will be replaced.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6351	It is jointly voted on by you and the proposal of the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘II On-demand authorisation The majority agrees that the Ministry of Health and Welfare in 2009 is able to make orders in addition to the appropriations allocated, but so that the overall framework for new orders and old responsibilities does not exceed the following amounts: CapePostDescriptionTotal framework710National Public Health Institute21Special operating expenditure830 million. crowns’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6403	The proposal for a decision under II lapses as a result of the adoption of the proposal.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6410	During the debate, Olav Gunnar Ballo put forward three proposals on behalf of the Right, the Socialist Left, the Christian People's Party and the Left. During the debate Heikki Holmås of the Socialist Left Party has informed that the party will follow the Workers' Party and the Center Party in the voting. First of all, there is the vote on the motions for resolutions. 1-3 from the Right, Socialist Left Party, Christian People's Party and Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6468	The party of progress, the Right, the Socialist Left Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left are behind the position.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6483	During the debate, Mr Fredriksen put forward 55 proposals on behalf of the Progress Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6840	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 and 2, by Sonja Irene Sjøli on behalf of the Right and Christian People's Party, proposal No. 3, from Laila Bavøy on behalf of the Christian People's Party In the course of the debate, proposal No. 2, from the Right and Christian People's Party, converted into a transmission proposal. The proposal is amended as follows: ‘It is recommended that the Government ensure that a zero-tolerance line is implemented at national and permanent level against all forms of drug trafficking.’ The President proposes that this proposal be forwarded to the Government without any renunciation. – It shall be deemed to have been adopted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6870	It is then put to the vote on proposal No. 1, from the Right and Christian People's Party. The proposal reads as follows:
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6904	The President assumes that the Advance Party wants to vote against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6919	During the debate, Mr Davøy put forward three proposals on behalf of the Christian People's Party.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e6963	During the debate, Mr Aspell has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:81 [[2008-2009]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7004	The President notes that it is the Progress Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that are behind the adjustment, and that points 4 and 9 are identical, and that point 9 is therefore to be deleted.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7019	Two proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's proposal No 1 by Jan-Henrik Fredriksen, on behalf of the Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) and European Democrats, on the proposal No. 2, from Gunvald Ludwigsen on behalf of the Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7043	The vote will then take place alternately between the vote and proposal No. 1 from the Progress Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to start work on the establishment of a roofing system for dental services with a view to its introduction from 1 January 2010.’»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7067	During the debate, Sonja Irene Sjøli put forward a proposal on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that all parties relating to neck injuries must comply with the WHO guidelines by using ICD-10 coding and ICF when using DRG. [[diagnosis-related groups]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7093	During the debate, Mr Mandt-Bartholsen put forward a proposal on behalf of the Labour Party, the Socialist Left Party and the Central Party. The proposal reads as follows: ‘Document No. 8:91 [[2008-2009]] Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up. The President makes it clear that it is the Advance Party, the Right Party, the Christian People's Party and the Left that are behind the vote.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7128	During the debate, Inge Wohnung has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks for the freedom of establishment and reimbursement of all psychologists and psychiatrists authorised.’ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7169	During the debate, Inge Wohnung has put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to draw up a new national health plan containing the following: a clear prioritisation of the main health and care tasks, with a focus on the establishment of more than one offer outside hospitals and the provision of services in cooperation with municipalities. In addition, the provision of habilitation and rehabilitation needs to be significantly strengthened. An overall structure for healthcare, with clear standards for functional distribution and organisation of healthcare. A plan for the winding-up of regional health establishments and the introduction of a model that ensures better national governance. Measures to ensure more equivalent health services across the country and to improve legal certainty for patients. Distinguish the roles that order and perform in the regional health establishments. A long-term plan to ensure that healthcare businesses operate in an economic balance, with a focus on improving the efficiency of support functions and the appropriate conversion of patient pathways. Resolution of the system of policy-designated members of the health and regional health business boards.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7216	During the debate, Mr Giltun put forward a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party and the Right. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government is asking the Government to contribute to increased knowledge of biomedical treatment for children with autism, including through increased funding for research in the field, to ensure that healthcare is competent in biomedical treatment for people with autism, to ensure that children with autism are better provided for the investigation and treatment of somatic health disorders, to establish a multidisciplinary working group to contribute to a better treatment provision for children with autism, to establish arenas for cooperation, research and exchange of experience on autism, to assess whether to establish their own specialist homes in biomedicine that can contribute to better treatment for people with autism. ‘ Alternatively, this proposal shall be rejected and the Committee shall be set up.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7261	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Party for Progress sent by Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2009: ‘The Government asks the Government to ensure that the financial responsibility for the operation of spray rooms is assigned to the State, while the municipalities are held responsible for the provision of appropriate premises.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7280	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Party for Progress sent by Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2009: ‘The Government requests the introduction of the same duty-free quotas for imports of alcoholic beverages held in Sweden.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7299	The vote will take place on the proposal of Mr Jan-Henrik Fredriksen on behalf of the Party for Progress sent by Mr Odelstinget on 10 June 2009: ‘The decision asks the Government to facilitate reinforced public health work in the municipalities, which includes the tasks proposed for the county council. The county is given responsibility for coordination and interaction in public health.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7317	Four proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's – the proposals No 1-3, by Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left – proposal No. 4, from Trine Skei Grande on behalf of Left
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7341	There is a vote on the proposals Nos. 1-3, from the Right, Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7385	During the debate, Mrs Skei Grande presented the following proposals on behalf of the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The Government asks the Government to launch a public investigation related to the revision of the copyright law.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7414	During the debate, Olemic Thommessen has put forward three proposals on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7454	Three proposals have been put forward during the debate. It's – Proposal No. 1, by Karin S. Woldseth on behalf of the Advancement Party, Right, Christian People's Party and Left – proposal No. 2, by Karin S. Woldseth, on behalf of the Progress Party and the Left – proposal No. 3, from the Olemic Thommess on behalf of the Right
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7481	There is a vote on proposal No. 2. from the Progress Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The case of new buildings and their location shall be suspended before the case is brought before the Stortinget.’
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7495	The Committee's position and proposal No shall be replaced by an alternative vote. 1, from the Party of Advancement, from the Right Party, from the Christian Party, and from the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision asks the Government to return to Stortinget as soon as possible with an adequate case on the future arrangement and location of the National Museum, etc.’.»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7518	During the debate, Mr Hoksrud presented a proposal on behalf of the Progress Party, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left. The proposal reads as follows: ‘The decision requires the Government to report regularly on the progress of the deployment of the emergency network in an appropriate manner to the Storting in order to ensure that the progress plan and the budget are maintained.’;»
ParlaMint-NO_2009-06-16.ana.ud2010e7588	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone want a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
