ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e167	The representatives of Per-Kristian Foss, Ketil Solvik-Olsen and Per Arne Olsen, who have been licensed, have again taken their seats. The following called alternates have taken their seats: For Akershus County: Rannveig Kfifte Andresen and Abid Q. Raja For the Vestfold counties: Lars Aegean The representative of Morten Höglund is applying for leave on days 1 and 2 December to take part in the Norwegian delegation to the WTO Ministerial Conference in Geneva. On a proposal from the President, the following was unanimously decided: The application shall be examined immediately and accepted. The representative of the goods, Tone Liljeroth, shall be called to meet during the period of leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e209	Tone Liljeroth is present and will take the seat.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e217	The representative, Anders B. Werp, will make a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e220	On behalf of the representatives of Sonja Irene Sjøli, Elisabeth Aspaker, Bent Höie, André Oktay Dahl and the undersigned, I present a proposal for a representative on the introduction of a mandatory site of death in all cases of sudden and unexpected infant death.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e225	The representative of Laila Davøy will present a proposal for a representative.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e228	It'll be tomorrow.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e233	If it is okay for the representative to take it now, the proposal is available here. This will allow the representative to present the proposal, to which I have the text.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e237	Thank you very much, President! I'm glad we have such a flexible president here in Stortinget. Then I am delighted to make a representative proposal from Dagrun Eriksen, Line Henriette Hemdal and myself to reduce the use of coercion in mental health protection.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e244	The proposals will be dealt with in a regulatory manner.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e250	Before we start dealing with the issues on the agenda for today, the President will report some corrections to the votes that Stortinget made after the financial debate night to Friday. As the representatives were made aware in an e-mail on Friday afternoon, an error in the program that runs the watering system led to the numbers shown on the screens in the hall being wrong in some voting. On the basis of the voting transcripts and the summation of the votes cast by each representative, who is correct, the votes must be corrected for eight votes, which relate to cases No. Two, three, four. In Case No. Two, inside. 2 S: For the proposals No 62 to 64, from the left, the votes shall be 161 against and 8 against. For the proposals No 58-61, from the Christian People's Party, the votes shall be 158 against and 11 against. For proposal No 57, from the right, the number of votes is 138 to 31. In the case of alternative voting between the vote proposal for decision Roman number I and proposal No. 65, from the Party of Advancement, the Right, the Christian People's Party and the Left, there shall be 86 votes in favour and 83 votes in favour. In Case No. Three, deep down. 3 S: Proposal No. 22 from the right and Christian peoples, shall have 130 votes against and 39 against. The proposal for a Framework 18 Decision was adopted by 86 votes to 83. In case 4, Innst. 4 L: Proposal No. 48 to 59, from the Left, shall have a number 2 and a number of 167 against. In the case of a proposal for a decision, capital K, V, the votes shall be 137 against and 32 against. – It is considered biphasic.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e294	I had the pleasure of attending the annual conference of the LO Oil and Gas Committee in Stavanger in October. The conference was largely dedicated to the demanding situation experienced by large parts of the oil supply industry during these days. At this conference, oil director Bente Uusimaa also took part, and she presented some interesting figures showing what the petroleum industry in Norway actually contributes: a third of the country’s revenue comes from this industry. These revenues include both tax income, tax income, dividends from the state’s holdings on the base and holdings in corporations such as Statoil – i.e., one third of the country’s total income. That's a lot. Furthermore, oil director Uusimaa could convey 25 pst. of all investments in Norway take place in this sector. It's also a high number. So every four crowns invested are used in the petroleum sector. 50 pst. of the country's export income comes from the petroleum industry and the industry employs, directly and indirectly, about 200000 people. These are resident in most of the country's municipalities. One third of the country's income, each fourth investment crown, half of Norway's exports, and almost 200,000 people employed in the industry – we are talking about the country's second largest industry. It's a lot thanks to this industry that Norway could go into the 20th century as one of the richest countries in the world. In 2009, there has been record investment on the Norwegian base. Investments are expected to fall in 2010 but will remain at a relatively high level. However, the picture is nuanced within industry. The market for maintenance and modifications is present, but the large development projects are lacking in the foreseeable future. What concerns the right here is, above all, the loss of competence we are at risk if the oil supply industry has to go to lay-offs and lay-offs. Competence is the most important thing. Although income and jobs are also important, loss of competence is the most important thing. It is precisely this competence that we are going to use to meet major challenges in the future, and if this competence is to be further developed, it has to have a lot of work to do. Competence will further develop our oil effort in the north and in demanding areas. This competence is to ensure that we get an increased degree of extraction in existing fields, and it is to give us even smarter environmental solutions and even more profitability in what we do. And last but not least, this competence is important to meet the climate challenges we face, and to ensure transition to other types of energy sources as well. A publication from the Norwegian Industry in June 2009 shows gloomy figures: the eleven largest offshore shipyards have only one third of their employees in the first half of 2010. The ten largest engineering companies in the country only have a job for half of their employees during this period. This comes in addition to employees who have been hired who have either already gone or are in danger of leaving. And in yesterday's Stavanger Evening Magazine we could read an interview with Statoil's search director, Tove Stuhr Seeblom, who announced a reduced search activity in 2010. The reason why, in my article, I framed the numbers that show the importance of the food cluster, is that I am sometimes somewhat doubtful about, I have to admit, whether the oil and energy minister and today's government actually understand the extent of what the petroleum industry represents both in terms of obtaining the country's income, and in terms of getting people to work all over the country, and last but not least, to what competence this industry represents for today's and tomorrow's challenges. Why do I doubt whether the facts and scope are good enough? Well, there's a combination of signals – or perhaps a rather lack of signals – from this government and the previous red-green government. For the first time in many years, a government does not have the power to present its own petroleum message to the Stortinget. It's been six years. Now this is announced in the current ageing period – in Soria Moria II – and the Council of State said in the Questionnaire on 18 November that it can be expected to be available in a year’s time at best. I'm recording that the start of the round of consultations with nutritionists, etc. to this message happened in Stavanger yesterday, and before I go further, I would like to stress that it is positive that the work has finally started. I choose to be optimistic about expecting this petroleum message to arrive at Stortinget during the autumn of 2010. A kerosene message gives both government and magnification an opportunity to discuss visions for this important industry. What objectives should we pursue, what strategies should we use, and what measures should be taken in the short and long term to get where we want to go? These major and important questions are important for wide discussion in this room and among the various actors. The sea areas outside the Lofoten and the Vesterål are considered to be the most promising untapped areas on the Norwegian base. The issue of opening up these areas will be of great importance for oil companies as well as the supplier industry – not only in North Norway but throughout the country. I must admit that I am disappointed that the issue of opening up these areas was put at risk in the context of the 2006-2010 management plan. Now it's suspended again, in Soria Moria II until after 2013. I understand the challenges associated with the environmental aspect, not least related to fishing interests, but yet our main industry is demanding predictable framework conditions and signals as to whether these activities are still wanted in Norway. The country's largest industry and financial contributors, the industry that brings together the highest level of competence, need to get some positive signals from today's government. A kerosene message that is at best a year ahead is late. What do the Government and the Council of State Riis-Johansen think can be done today and in the short term? We have just had a financial debate in Stortinget, and the focus has been on next year's budget. In the context of the financial crisis, it has been necessary to put measures above public budgets in order to meet this offensive. This has also resulted in much of the room for action for the use of oil money for many years in the future being used up in the light of the rule of action. If we are to look forward to the future, there is no doubt that the Government takes into account that its revenues from the petroleum sector will continue to come, both to annual budgets and to the continued construction of the State pension fund – Foreign. This includes, inter alia: revenues from oil and gas discoveries not yet discovered. At the same time, we know that there are many things that do, but that these are small. Our oil production is strongly declining, and the forecasts from the Oil Directorate show a continued decline in production, to approximately 1.6 million barrels a day in 2013. Production will then be halved from the peak year 2001. We need more oil. What will the Council of State do with this? Norway is a major energy supplier – not only large, but at least equally important, Norway is a stable oil and gas supplier to Europe and to other markets. The IEA recently presented its annual forecast of world energy needs by 2030. Even with a massive commitment to new renewable energy, which is both correct and necessary, the IEA says that the world needs to find oil equivalent to four Saudi Arabias up to 2030 in order to maintain supplies at today’s level. This level will be absolutely necessary to satisfy the world's energy needs by 2030. We feel that a lot of projects have been put on hold. At the beginning of this year, the Oil Directorate presented 11 projects that they were expected to be implemented in 2009. Today's Business had it 7/8. a summary of the status of all these 11 projects showing how the vast majority of them were exposed. This is a demanding situation for the oil supplier industry. Statoil is a dominant player on Norwegian pedestal. The company has about 80 pst. by the fields. The right is concerned that there should be diversity and competition on the base, and that this is the best guarantor of good and dynamic development. We have therefore expressed our concern on several occasions. One of the measures we think we can look at in this situation is to strengthen the role of Petoro. Petoro is known to be responsible for the state's holdings on the base, and the company must have an overall approach to their management, with a profitability at the bottom. Right wants to strengthen Petoro. We do that by proposing an increase in the resources of the company of about 20 pst. in the budget of the year. The oil and energy minister has pointed out on several occasions the important role of Petoro, but in the 2010 budget, the additions are hardly suitable to cover the price increase. What comment does the Council of State have on this? Furthermore, I would like to hear the views of the Council of State as to whether it may be appropriate to look at measures that address tax and tax changes that are more adapted to current challenges. Could it be appropriate to have an even more flexible use of the country's holdings on the base? Could it be appropriate to speed up and thus obtain clarification in relation to the opening of areas outside the Lofoten and the Vestral?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e338	Before the State Council of Terje Riis-Johansen gets the floor, I just want to make a clarification. The term ‘the previous red-green government’ was used. It is such that Stoltenberg II is the first red-green government – and that is the government that still has, right after a choice. The president says this just for the sake of order, so the Storting knows what government we're dealing with.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e341	It is possible that the representative perceived that there had been such significant changes in the composition of the Government that it gave the impression that there was a new government. Interestingly, we in Norway have now reached the point where we hear from the President afterwards what the vote has been like – we who were not here in the Chamber a few days ago. But that's not what we're going to discuss. I listened with interest to the post from the representative Meling. I think the description given by the situation in the oil and gas business is good and relatively accurate. I think the description given by the representative here is relatively similar to the description I gave in Stavanger yesterday in connection with the introduction to the work that I am now up in connection with the oil and gas message. I'll come back to it. I therefore listened with interest to the conclusions of the more operational around this and noted that the question that was asked was whether the government at all understood the seriousness of the situation. Based on the description given by reality, I think it to confusion is similar to the description given by the Government of the situation. The question of what measures have been taken recently is a somewhat surprising question. With regard to the question of a petroleum message, which has been discussed in the past, I hope, when we are doing that work, that it will be a work in which we will all be fully involved, also to get the long-term in place. As I see this, after the financial crisis, we now have a different situation, a situation that too large and important parts of the oil and gas industry are serious. There is a situation that I have followed carefully, after we at the end of last year so that this would occur. We have had many meetings and received many input with assessments from different actors. I just have to say that I'm worried about the picture that's drawing for parts of the industry. I think we can talk to a great deal about the more traditional yard industry, which has mostly had assignments related to larger individual projects, and which now sees that there are few of these projects in the order books. It's worrying. I fully share the representative's approach to the competence challenge here. After my visit to Rosenberg in Stavanger yesterday was just the impression I put back on, that the management of the business was worried that they could keep the engineers, managed to maintain their skills, if there was now a period of reduced activity. So it's an image that we share, and a challenge that we have a common concern for. Then there was some debate in this room in the previous period related to short-term and long-term measures. I then realized that the opposition – also the party of which the representative Meling is part – had the main focus on the long-term, working on a petroleum message. I then believed, and still believe, that last year it was important to put in place also short-term measures related to mission and work. That's why I was very happy when we were able to get the Goliath proposition through the Stortinge in ours. I'm glad the PUDs around Troll and Oselvar are effective. I'm glad we started the 20th concession round last year, and I'm glad we're now on the 21st. I'm also happy with what's happened around TFO, where we've had processes in the last year. When I say that, it's from my understanding of this that what we can do primarily is to make sure that there's work for the industry, that there's predictability and long-termity, that we know that it's both a job to submit tenders in the short term, and that, after the turn you're looking at, there's a new mission to wait. From this point of view, I believe that the fact that we have now finished the 21st round is important for the industry to know that something more is coming. So as far as industry is concerned, it was the work that was done in ours and also last autumn, very important to contribute to the fact that there is work. And then we have the longer term. And that's right, as the representative says, we're now working on a petroleum message. I had sailed the start of it in Stavanger yesterday. It was a very good meeting around the challenges ahead. And the message is obviously differentiated. One part of the message is what the representative refers to, and I also mention, that parts of the industry have significant challenges. At the same time, there is no doubt that with a 2010 that is going to have a high level of investment in the historical context, it is fortunate that a very large part of the industry will also have a lot of work to do in 2010. So we have a differentiated situation. We kind of have a crisis that is selective, which knocks hard on parts of the industry, while other parts of the industry have a completely different situation. That's what's going to shape the work on the message – beyond what's further ahead. If I were to say a little bit more about measures that I believe have been important in meeting the crisis, which I believe is the basis of the interpelation, I believe that what was done to stabilise the financial markets, stabilise the banking system and ensure the order of the economy a short year ago was extremely important for this industry as well. If we hadn't done it, the challenges would now obviously have been bigger. The fact that we have helped to facilitate business transition through changes in permitting legislation and by increasing the allocation of skills measures, I also believe that concrete measures to help industry – which was also the strengthening of the GIEK framework – and that we provide Norwegian industry with security to invest in having the framework around the credit schemes in place. I COULD mention, export finance is part of the same issue. We have strengthened this, together with the fact that we have also strengthened the framework of Innovation in Norway. The sum of this, I think, is that we've wanted to face the crisis, we've wanted to do something about it, and we've arranged both through work to industry and through financial instruments, and security related to it, in the year that's behind us. Then the representative in his post addresses some specific questions. First, I noticed Statoil and the need for diversity on the pedestal against having such a big actor. I totally agree. I believe that through the allocations that have been made, we have shown the willingness to also give new, smaller companies tasks on the base. At the meeting I had in Stavanger yesterday, one of the concrete issues I had set up on the list was the role of small and medium-sized companies in the development of the socket further forward. I believe that part of what was said in Stavanger yesterday is related to the experience elsewhere in the world as regards how we can manage to increase the rate of exploitation, increase the presence of existing fields by giving access to smaller companies when the large companies believe that this might be a little too small projects in relation to their interests, can become very important precisely in order to be able to increase the rate of exploitation and be able to make use of the reserves we have in Norway in the future. So the answer to the question is yes: I want to facilitate diversity, want to facilitate small companies, and through the changes that have also been made in the tax system related to reimbursement for exploration costs, among other things, we now have a regime that makes it easier for small companies with less muscles to be on the base than it would otherwise have been. So the interpellant takes up the question of Petoro. My answer there is that Petoro is a cornerstone, a key player, in the development of Norwegian pedestal. If Petoro is not capable enough, operationally enough, in relation to the licenses, compared to being active participants where they are inside, it would be very negative for the management of our petroleum reserves. I understand that Petoro is doing a very good job, and I understand that they have concrete suggestions for improvements in many licenses. They have perceptions of investment order, and they have perceptions of environmental issues. So for me, Petoro is a good and important actor in terms of the totality of the socket.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e360	I thank the Council of State for his contributions. What I think is important in the situation we are in, is to be able to give some positive signals to the industry – to the individual business owner and operator who sits and counts on the buttons if you are going to leave or dry to retain competence because there is a light in the tunnel further ahead. To show that we have an active government, that we have a government council that wants something – wants something on behalf of this important industry – I think it's very important. Now the Council of State did not have the opportunity to comment so much on this with new search areas. But I have a challenge that goes back to the financial debate and the issue of biodiesel taxes. In this debate, the political spokeswoman of the Socialist Left, Ms. Noma Marte Thorkildsen, has been out in the media – among others. in VG networks – and said that they could accept this charge to a large extent because it increased the chance that there was no impact assessment in the areas outside the Lofoten and the West Pole in the next round – in 2010. Then my question – and something that I hope the Council of State can demand – is whether there is any commitment or underlying agreement there that one should not open up impact assessment in the northern regions in exchange for the imposition of a biodiesel tax. Clearly, giving access to new, promising areas is very important for us to make new, big findings so that our industry will get something to do with large development tasks. It is clear that the situation in the oil supply industry is affecting the whole country, because this industry has employees who live in almost all the municipalities of the country. Ensuring that this industry will have a future must be an important task for the Riis-Johansen Council of State. So I don't think the Council of State should be so surprised that questions are asked about whether the Government and the Council of State have understood the scope and meaning of this industry. It is clear that when we experienced several different government councils in this department in the last growing period, and when we have experienced that six years have passed since the government has said what visions, objectives and strategies we want for this industry, it must be allowed to ask questions about whether the government has taken seriously the challenges facing the industry – which the competence faces, the job creation facing, and which will secure the country's income in the future in order to further develop our welfare state.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e375	To take the last one first, if it were to be that it was not to present a kerosene message in the previous period that would indicate a lack of commitment in this area, I hope that the representative will look at my work on a kerosene message now as an commitment to discussing exactly oil and gas policy issues. In the course of months beyond winter, this matter is going to be a major issue for me – I am going to work a lot on oil and gas issues. I'm going to travel around and visit many important places with oil and gas activities along the coast, and there I'm going to say that I'm a government council proud of what we've achieved in the oil and gas business – which is proud that we have an industry that, to those degrees, creates ring-fences across the coast, and that more than any other industry contributes to financing the community, helps to finance the well-being of Norway. I am a state council that is proud of what we have done in the oil and gas business, and I want to contribute to the future development. So that doesn't mean that everything is going to be done the way it's been done up to now. There will be new challenges – not least in relation to climate issues – but I am convinced that authorities and industry together will find good solutions to them as well. It's right, as the representative said, that I didn't have the right to comment on the relationship with the Lofoten and the West Pole, new search areas and what was picked up by the interpellant about it. To that it is said that the process in the case of the Lofoten and the Vesterålen has been completed. So it's up to the Storting to discuss it a want to discuss. But that the process up to 2010 is a real process that makes me not going to shoot it, I guess that's understanding. Then I can only confirm what the representative has to say, that in terms of the process – the assessment in relation to the areas in which it is relevant to look at, to have an activity in the future – there is a discussion and a conclusion that will be drawn from the realities, based on the facts, in the specific case.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e388	Tens of thousands of jobs around the country are linked to the supplier industry. Working for everyone is our most important and foremost task. Everyone has the right to work, and everyone has the right to a wage to live off. That's what the basic right is that both the Workers' Party and the Red-Green Government will fight for. That is why I can reassure the representative Meling that both the Council of State and the Government understand. We don't just understand -- we're doing something about it. The challenges in the supply industry are great, and they are worrying. We follow them closely, in close dialogue with the industry itself, and I remind the representative Meling that we also live 'in life' and come from a place and know how it feels out there. That's exactly why we're taking this seriously. The right is trying to present the challenge as being due to the policy of the red-green government. That's not right. When the representative Meling says that the red-green government has been passive and has not done anything, I think it is appropriate to recall that we have put in place not only one management plan, but two, namely the management plan for the Norwegian Sea and the management plan for the North Sea. The concession rounds are scheduled and the kerosene message will arrive during the period and this work will start now before Christmas. The challenges in the supply industry arise as a result of the international and global financial crisis, and our government is not behind the financial crisis, as one might get the impression that some bourgeois politicians will later believe. On the other hand, we have managed the crisis in such a way that unemployment in Norway is the lowest in Europe. The right to work is our policy. That is why we have acted as we have done during this crisis. Several of the measures taken by the Government in the context of the financial crisis, we did just to secure jobs not only in this industry but in all the industries concerned. Yes, we've spent a lot of money, a lot of money, just to make the industry safe – and that was the right use of money. First of all, I would like to point out that the Government has already taken important steps to limit the downskilling and loss of competence in vulnerable businesses in the coming years. In order to mitigate the effects of the international financial turmoil in the Norwegian economy, the Government initiated early extensive measures to improve the situation in financial markets. Significant funds were provided to banks to improve liquidity and lending opportunities, which has been important for the industry we are discussing today. We have put forward a number of measures to facilitate business transition, such as amended permitting legislation and increased allocation to different competences measures. The financing of Norwegian exports has been significantly strengthened. In January, the GIEK framework almost doubled, while export finance received significant increases in its loans from the state. This has been a very important instrument for the offshore supply industry, as a large part of industry’s turnover is in international markets. I would otherwise like to highlight Innovation Norway, which provides a number of instruments that come to the benefit of vulnerable companies, including the offshore supplier industry. In the Government’s package of measures and in the revised budget for 2009, Innovation Norway saw a significant increase in the framework. For 2010, the Government proposes a further increase in the appropriations. These means shall help to mitigate the short-term effects of the financial turmoil, to maintain and further develop skills and to strengthen innovation and migration in the longer term – precisely those things that the representative Meling is asking for. But it is also the case that the socket requires conversion in the supplier industry. The level of activity on Norwegian pedestal has increased sharply in recent years and the level of investment is high in record terms. The forecasts also show high levels of investment in the coming years. But new projects are largely marine bottom solutions. This also requires conversion in the supplier industry. I hear the representative Meling here on the floor, and I read in the newspapers, that politicians from the civil side come up again and again with the Lofoten and the West Pole as an area where the government has failed and where it has not delivered. Then I have to remind the representative Meling that regardless of what is in the Soria Moria statement, and regardless of how the majority had been in this room, no one could have opened the Lofoten or the West Pole in this period. I don't expect that the Right jumps over all the laws, rules and guidelines that they themselves have been and made, considering how one does such a work. Telling both the oil industry and the common people out there that if only this had been in place, everything had gone so it sucks, is leading people behind the light. So finally, we in the Workers' Party and this government are going to follow the situation in the supplier industry very closely in the time to come. Many jobs, many communities, not least what both the representative Meling and I come from, depend on the big community being able to deal with its potential instruments, if it turns out to be necessary.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e418	I will not repeat the importance of this industry in terms of employment, value creation and drive for others. I think everyone here agrees. Nor should we go too far in discussing the need for oil and gas, because this issue is also about energy, not just about employment and value creation. For all those who were present at the EIA's presentation of World Energy Outlook 2009, it is obvious that the world will need more energy. Even in a climate perspective, the world will need more oil and gas. The EU will need to import more gas. In other words, all premises exist that Norway should increase its production of oil and gas over the next ten years from an energy point of view, while at the same time running a race parallel to a more renewable society. What's important here is that in such a long-term course, oil and gas industries also need a long-term strategy. They must have some framework conditions. Is this something a wish, or is it something you don't want? One must have security and trust in place so that one does not have to fear that the politicians suddenly jump off an investment path that the industry has set up. Because it's a problem when an industry is ready with skills and capital investment worth tens of hundreds of billions of dollars, while one meets politicians who have a half-year perspective at a time, and barely so. Yes, it's nice that we get a kerosene message – all praise for it. But it took 50 months to get to work. What in all days has the government been running for 50 months? I do not buy the argument that yes, but it was important to deal with the cases. First of all, there is a strong criticism of the party leader of the Council of State, who has allegedly just been sitting on those issues. I don't think that the Council of State will admit it, either, but that argument gets a ta in-house. What's important is that it's both possible to operate with the administration – such as getting through the concession rounds, Goliath, Do it – and to put in the long-term strategies. All governments since the 1970s have done so until today. I do not understand why it should be a problem for today's government, with the greatest bureaucracy of the times, the greatest political leadership in the past. So I'm glad the government is now expressing an commitment. We, who have been in the committee for four years, have seen the same involvement with former state councils as well. The problem is not a lack of commitment; the problem is to come up with solutions after that exposure. And there's the problem bigger. We who have been in some energy debates in the last few months, see that every time SV is in the debate, there is a one-sided drive on what we know, for the oil and gas industry. Therefore, it is likely to be a major problem that the involvement is unable to capture the SV, the Centre Party and the Working Party to pursue a comprehensive policy. Because that's what we're missing, not how important the oil and gas industries have been to Norway, but actually being able to put the guidelines forward. Because what we are enjoying today is the political decision taken in previous years. What we are going to talk about now is what decisions we are going to take now to ensure that this adventure can continue as far as possible and in the best possible sustainable way, both environmentally and energyically. So the Council of State says it's important to create a common sense of reality. Yes you, oh you, I agree so. But it is not a problem with most politicians in here, because I believe, frankly, that the Labour Party, the Right and the Advance Party already have the common sense of reality in place. The problem is that the Workers' Party, SV and the Center Party do not have that sense of reality. We can look again at the debates we've been in. Some in the Government shall direct youth away from petroleum-related education. On the SV side, the TFO rounds are called undemocratic. Petroleum-related research has cut it. And the management plan, as Eirin Sund took up here, what did the responsible state council say? Yes, as a protective plan. The management plan for the Norwegian Sea is therefore a protective plan. It wasn't a management plan. Then it is not enough to say that it was good to get the Goliath case through in Stortinget, because it is not Goliath who trained that case. The problem was in the Government. What I hope we can get from the petroleum message now, and also from this debate, is an important signal. It is that an overall government not only writes in notes in budget positions that we are going to bet on oil, and then SV goes out and takes away from it in the first debate, but that an overall government says that Norwegian oil and gas industry will be an important part of Norwegian energy policy for the next 20-30 years. That's what we're talking about. It's not about trying to jump off that train. Yes, we're going to bet on renewable energy, but oil and gas are an important part, and we're going to actually increase production to the extent that resources allow. So we have to understand what that means when we talk about attractive ladders and areas. That doesn't mean we're going to recycle the same areas in further years when we've been doing it for 15 years already. That means we're going to have predictability around the laps. Yeah, we've had round 20, but it was a year late. The TFO 2008 was three months delayed, without any explanation from the Government. That's the kind of thing we need to be clear about. There must be a clarity that this comes every two years to approx. fixed time. One can't just postpone it for a year and say it's happened, so there's no problem. We have to do something about this.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e439	It is an important debate taken up by the representative, Mr Meling. Norway's wealth is built on the huge revenues of the oil industry. We can thank that industry very much for being so good in Norway, and for being at the forefront in the world when it comes to welfare and development. We are also one of the leading countries in the world when it comes to technology development. The oil industry has been a driving force in developing new technologies that can also be used in many other areas. Norway is also one of the leading countries for environmental protection. The oil industry that we have in Norway has also been at the forefront in the world when it comes to taking care of natural and environmental land, both on its own base and in order to produce technologies that lead to environmentally friendly extraction elsewhere. This is very important to take care of. It is important for us that we are a driving force in developing technology and also give opportunities for Norwegian industry to be involved in pointing out a direction for that technology. It will take a long time for oil extraction in the north to start. Norwegian industry is fully capable of addressing the challenges that come if they get a clear start-up order that we want a development, we want to move on. Norwegian oil industry needs clear messages. I record that the Minister responds to the question mark being seen by six years to get a new energy message. The oil industry, in line with other industries, needs a steering signal, he needs a clear signal on which direction to go. In this Chamber we also need a debate on the direction to be taken. We simply need to give a clear control signal. In the debate that we had here in the Chamber last week on biodiesel, it became clear that SV – although it was Kristin Halvorsen who came up with the idea of a biodiesel tax – lost a lot of that debate. I am very concerned about the debate that we will have on the Lofoten and the Westphalia, whether there will also be a debate in which jobs and future developments will lose, in the same way as future developments on green jobs, lost in the debate we had in the Chamber before. I look forward to having a good debate on oil development, and I am also very pleased that the Right takes the initiative to come with its own oil message related to what the representative Meling has drawn up. It is an incredibly important theme for the country. It is an incredibly important theme for business and an incredibly important theme for the environment.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e456	We are faced with a situation where the industry and trade union movement are concerned about low order intakes and lay-offs, and we share that concern. Just such downtime calls for innovation and planning of the Norwegian industry that equips us to tackle future crises as well as perhaps even worse crises. Therefore, it is important to remember that there is no simple measure that can improve the situation immediately — a quick fix. On the contrary, it is precisely the review of the entire instrument notified in Soria Moria II, where all aspects of the instrument towards Norwegian business have to be highlighted in order to facilitate future-oriented and environmentally friendly jobs and production. The time has passed when one sees the solution to climate crisis and the solution to economic crises as contrasts. I think it's just the Progress Party that's doing in this room. SV is in favour of an increase in the extraction rate of already established areas of resource considerations, and it also stimulates new investments in mature fields. In view of this, it is important that the TFO system should be managed responsibly. The representative of Solvik-Olsen really knows that that's SV's position. It is the offshore industry that sits on the basis of what we often refer to as a future bet on offshore wind power. I believe that the time has come to start planning our future offshore jobs. It is the case, as the Council of State has already pointed out, that a long-term contract industry should also be covered by long-term instruments. The world's oil spills have to go down in a few years if we're to achieve the 2-degree target. We cannot face such a scenario with a waiting and seeing attitude, where we first squeeze the oil resources to the last drop, and then the thousands of workers who live by this industry leave to themselves, as it sounds like the Progress Party wants: to deal with a limited resource as if it were eternal. On the contrary, Norway’s future industry and energy supply depend on the expertise developed by Norway in offshore. Last week, the Right, as previous speakers also illustrate, was very eager to profile themselves as best friends of the climate. Right-wing oil policy: as much as possible, as quickly as possible and without impact assessment. The Right Party and the Advance Party are making this happen by building a rational one in which the least sought interpretations of the IEA reports play a central role, combined with the production and performance of Norwegian oil as significantly cleaner and greener than other oil. It is an unfair presentation both to the population and to those who work in the industry. In the long term, the production of oil and gas has to decline. Both parts have to descend into Europe in a few years – something that Solvik-Olsen often skips when referring to World Energy Outlook – no matter how pleasant it might be to pretend the opposite. The question is how and when this transition is to take place. Then it becomes speculative to produce oil drilling in the Lofoten and the West Sea as a solution to the immediate problems in the industry, both because the premise is wrong, such potential extraction will lie many years ahead, and because an ever-increasing activity is incompatible with both the climate crisis and our employment in industry in the longer term. To wave the Lofoten in front of workers who fear their jobs, the Right should stay too good for. Finally, I would like to say that I am delighted with the ideological shift that the Right has been facing in the shelter of the financial crisis. It's actually happy. From being a party that talks about more again for the money and that had a revitalized, young, ideological wing with a laissez faire relationship to the market and capitalism, the party has turned 180 degrees, and now uses most of its opposition life to demand more red-green policy, more flexible use of ownership and more public-driven industrial policy. In response to the challenges faced by the workers in the representative of Meling's homeland, the blue color is suddenly not so recognizable anymore. It is both understandable and joyous. Finally, I just want to mention that the suggestion that there should be a secret agreement related to biodiesel and the Lofoten and the West Pole is so absurd that it does not deserve any further comment, other than that I would urge the representative Meling to be despicable in quoting the fiscal figures of other parties.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e475	Petroleum industry is a major and important industry for the country, to which many have come. Not only does he contribute to the community's activity through taxes, taxes and direct ownership, but he creates thousands of jobs around our country. That is why the theme of the debate is important. The government, as the Council of State has pointed out, has taken a number of measures to ensure the nourishment of the negative effects of the financial crisis – strengthening export finance and GIEK to ensure the good guarantee schemes that guarantee an industry which is the most export right, there are permissive mechanisms, which ensure the ability to maintain competence, or are the schemes through Innovation Norway and important R & D activity, which also contribute to making the industry more robust. This has been in the Council of State, and the representative Eirin Kristin Sund also well lit this, so I'm going to use the opportunity to spend some time on a close theme. It is right that it is important that we, as regulators, are observant of the important role of the industry in creating activity and ringing locally, but it is also particularly important that the industry is conscious of its responsibility in relation to the fact that this type of activity, i.e. extraction of natural resources, should lead to activity and local ringing. It is against this background that the Government of the new Government Declaration underlines – and not only underlines, but reinforces – the wording that the industry should actively use the base structure along the coast for oil and gas extraction. The reason I'm taking this up is that there seems to be a temporary setting for some actors in the industry that makes it difficult – yes, almost impossible – to build a professional environment and operating organisations outside the big cities. That's not true. On the contrary, it is possible to build a community of competences in the base cities along the whole coast and to do so much more than today. I hope that can happen, not just because the red-green government demands it, but that the company sees the value of building important competences around the country. In particular, it is important for the legitimacy of the industry to create jobs around the country that politicians, municipalities, counties and employees are occupied by the activity of the industry, and this may give the necessary attention to the industry in good and slightly more difficult times. So the interpellant's party used its power in government to weaken these conditions in order to create the competences and jobs around the country to which it refers today, and it could be nice to right if the interpellant stands at right to see that one should weaken these requirements, or if one agrees with the red-green government that these requirements are important to stand in relation to the industry. Then the interpellant dropped the cat partly out of the bag in relation to what this debate is about, because there is not a debate where the interpellant disagrees with the measures taken by the government to meet the financial crisis. Nor is one unbalanced in the progress of a petroleum policy through ordinary concession rounds and TFOs. But this is largely about the Lofoten and the Vesterålen, which the interpellant also thematically addressed in its article. In this case, the central party is very clear. We think it's wrong to open these important and perhaps most vulnerable sea areas, if you look at the fish resources, for petroleum. It's not that we can clean up a global financial crisis by putting at stake important natural resources. That's why we're critical of opening these areas. If the Right had an impact on its view of opening these areas to petroleum industry, the activity that came as a result of it would still be far ahead of time and not in any way a solution to today's financial crisis. Therefore, the focus must be on the future, not only how to strengthen the industry in a critical phase, but also how it can develop in the future. It is quite clear that the future energy policy and the potential of renewable energy will also be important for this industry because this industry has a very important competence, offshore knowledge, which will be important in moving from the fossil to the renewable energy society, where offshore energy production will be an important part of the solution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e491	There is an important debate between the European Parliament and the Council today. The oil supply industry is an important industry for Norway — today, it was yesterday and it will be for tomorrow’s society. It is important for this industry that it has stable framework conditions. But I think what is equally important for the industry is that it has forward-looking framework conditions. Norway has gone from being a maritime nation to being a major oil and gas supplier now – and then we're going to be an even bigger renewable nation than what we are per. today. It is therefore important that the supply industry around the country, large and small enterprises, is given forward-looking framework conditions. Climate is high on the agenda – perhaps due to the majority decisions in this Chamber on the biofuels issue last week. Climate is high on the agenda because we are getting closer to the Copenhagen Summit by fast pace. Climate is high on the agenda because we hear a cry from those who already notice climate change. We have a global responsibility to pursue a combined climate, environmental and industrial policy that is not opposed to each other but that unites. I think it's important to get to the heart of such a debate. The IEA has given us new figures regarding the development of our energy society and our energy world. I'm recording that the interpellant forms the reference path for its main post where you refer to Kuwait, and that you need a fourfold increase in relation to what you have of resources. But it is also important to note that the IEA has a climate scenario that adds to the basic 2-degree target, which has been Norwegian policy in view of development. We might have something to learn from the United States in this area. In Congress, since 1981 they have adopted a moratorium on oil extraction on American pedestals. Oil extraction is only permitted in the Gulf of Mexico and parts of Alaska. Eastern parts of the Gulf of Mexico as well as the entire east and west coasts are covered by this moratorium. The reason for the moratorium is that there is an unacceptable environmental risk, while any accident would pose a threat to the tourism industry along the coast. The exciting thing is that the estimates for discovered and undetected petroleum resources on American base are more than three times as high as the estimates for remaining petroleum resources on Norwegian base. Nevertheless, from 1981 until today this moratorium has been held. The interpellant suggests that one third of the revenue of the State comes from the oil and gas industry. That's right. That is why we must in the long run refocus our economy on our dependence on oil and gas. In a sustainable perspective, this is not compatible with the future society that we need to build. This will take time, and it will. But if we're going to get to the low-energy community, which is the goal of the climate comrades, we have to start at some point with this transformation. The oil supply industry is important, and it will be important, but we also know that this industry is good at changing. Only the supplier industry will have stable, forward-looking framework conditions, I am sure that it will be part of the good – whether it is climate change, industrial virtue or other good – that it needs, that is, if we, as politicians and governments, provide forward-looking framework conditions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e502	There are great opportunities to further develop the competence of the supplier industry. Activity and access to new and more challenging areas are, of course, a driving force for the development of skills across the petroleum sector. The left is in favour of the continued development of petroleum resources on the base, including in the northern regions. To clarify our position, we also make an important distinction. Because we say yes to activity in some areas, we also say no to activity in the most vulnerable and conflict-filled areas. One of these areas is outside the Lofoten and the Vestral. All the areas where there is great uncertainty as to whether activity is proper, we are waiting. The red-green government has distributed a record high number of permits for oil and gas on the base. When we are informed that the supply industry is in difficulty, it must be seen in the light of international economic conditions and the impact of the financial crisis. There is also a major imbalance in the Government's energy policy. There is full pressure on oil and gas exploration also in vulnerable areas, while the focus on renewable energy production has been too weak. Workshop companies and the yard industry could have had more legs to stand on and evolve within renewable energy, if the government had invested heavily enough. The Bondevik II government offered to introduce a green certificate scheme to speed up the renewable initiative. However, this was torpedoed by the red-green government, with the consequence that about nine out of ten wind power projects were put on ice. However, the government and government have now agreed that work on green certificates should be resumed, and important steps have also been taken towards this. This is positive. But during the red-green government, we have lost a lot of time in the field of renewable energy production, and the supply industry has lost an important opportunity to develop its renewable competence. The way to a more profitable business is also about more knowledge and more research. Public provision must then be made for business to evolve in such a direction. These include: on good framework conditions, on tax incentives and on effective solutions. A commitment to research, development and innovation in business is the best thing we can do to ensure skills development, that is, the basis for future revenues to finance our well-being. The left is very concerned about the public expenditure to be tightened up over a short period of time. The reason for this is simple: despite record growth in public budgets in the last period, research, innovation and higher education have been the loser in almost every budget, and the rest cut in this field looks like it will forever mark the legacy of the red-green government. Now we also see that industry is critical of the fact that several of the crisis packages do not continue in the state budget for next year. It's obvious that, in sum, this is not a strategy that solves our challenges.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e517	High employment, low unemployment and good value creation are essential for the Norwegian welfare society. When the future shows a low economic downturn in an important food chain, and the low economic downturn may occur first from the second half of 2010/2011, it is clear that this is taken with the greatest seriousness from the Government and government parties. If we shut down at one year's time, the government and this increased the historically perhaps largest package of measures to mitigate the economic downturn we saw ahead of us, and the opportunities for lower employment and high unemployment. The measures have worked – they are still there, they are not gone. Both Innovation Norway’s framework, GIEK’s and Export Finance’s framework, mechanisms related to more flexible permitting rules, extended arrangements related to enterprise-internal training, etc., are all schemes that are still in force and that can still be used and will continue to work. When the interpellant says she's questioning whether the government actually understands the situation, I think it's a sought-after approach to the issue that's serious. She mentions the kerosene message as the key to not taking the situation seriously. I think that's something sought after. We now have a year, 2009, where there are record high investments, it is ‘all hour high’ both in terms of activity, and in terms of price. The fact that the situation in the financial crisis now needs to be stabilized and normalised, I think, is quite natural. That's a consequence of the time we're actually in. The same applies to the situation related to the falling oil price, which has certainly had an impact on what is now available. There is no doubt that even and high activity has been what has characterized the red-green government over the last four years. This characteristic is still going to be fixed, it continues. And then we get to what's the undertone in the goal of the interpellant, that's just the relationship with the Lofoten and the West Pole. That's what's at stake in the interpellation. I agree, the Lofoten and the Vesterål are important – it is so important that this government has now spent hundreds of millions of dollars collecting knowledge to understand a knowledge-based solution and an answer in 2010. There are no changes to it. Whether the decision is made now or whether it is taken in the next year is not in practice relevant to the situation to which the interpellant refers. The important thing is that one actually bases such a decision on knowledge, precisely because there are a lot of interests to balance out, and there are a lot of reasons to take care of. I can also stress to the representative Meling, who was disappointed in 2006, that yes, she would have been more disappointed if it had been the right-wing government option on which they went to elections in 2005, which had presented the management plan, because it would probably have been protected by the Lofoten and the West Pole. For the Right was alone in that government to think that one would open the Lofoten and the West Pole. So I'm very pleased with what the government has done in relation to the management plan for the northern regions; so that one should have a knowledge-based approach to what is the most vulnerable. Norwegian oil and gas and energy policy are important, it is crucial. But I would like to say to those who in this debate are trying to bring the situation and the conclusions to the conclusion that it is the media player who is leading, that it is directly wrong. It is not that it is the media output of the individual representatives that forms the basis for the decisions taken by the Government, it has shown the four previous years, and it will show the four coming years. I think it is good with a debate, as opposed perhaps to the Right and the Advance Party which, without doubt, is quite clear that they have concluded on the Lofoten and the West Pole – without any kind of debate, without using the knowledge collected. That's what I'm worried about. The activity on Norwegian pedestal is important and in many cases is crucial for the well-being and employment of Norway for many years to come. It's so important that we're going to use the knowledge we're now acquiring to steer development further. And of course, we're going to consider individual measures in relation to the particular situation of the offshore supplier industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e537	That SV believes that oil and gas must be phased out quickly is a fact. We've heard that for a long time. The representative from SV also makes it clear that you don't get confused about the facts, you don't use the facts that come out. SV's representative criticises the Progress Party because we use IEA's World Energy Outlook 2009. He clearly believes that the Progress Party interprets this error – but then he has misunderstood, the Progress Party only refers to the report. Representatives from the Progress Party were present at the meeting with the IEA Chief Economist, Fatih Birol. SV was not present; they shone with their absence. The IEA clearly states that the world’s energy needs will increase in the future, and they present two scenarios, a baseline — ‘Business as usual’, continued as today — and a climate scenario. Let me refer to the climate scenario. CO2 emissions shall be limited to a maximum of 450 ppm, but it requires a high level of energy saving, renewable energy, nuclear energy and CO2 storage. In figures, this means that in 2030, the energy situation will be as follows: nuclear power generation will increase by approx. 110 pst. in relation to today. Renewable energy will increase by approx. 105 pst., gas with 17,5 pst. and oil of 4,5 pst. It is in the coal sector that the IEA wants to reduce, by 17 pst. This is the IEA's number for a climate solution. Again: it is coal that gives the large emissions of CO2 gas, emissions that we need to reduce. So it's the oil and gas production that's going up to make this happen. It is therefore important that Norway produces as much oil and gas as possible from the North Sea. EU gas imports have to rise by 37 p.m., even with their 20-20-20 target. The gas and oil from the North Sea are Norway’s best contribution to reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e555	It is an important matter that is being addressed today. The oil supply industry is a very important industry, and many have illuminated it here. In many coastal communities, there are very many jobs linked to this industry, both directly and indirectly. That's how it is in many places, even in my part of the country, North Norway. Maybe we've just seen the beginning of the challenges we're facing! The red-green government brought work on the management plan for the sea areas in the north out of bourgeois deadwaters. The situation in the Bondevik II government, with the Progress Party as a supporting party, was – as most people know – completely locked down. My co-representative from Northland, Right Ivar Kristiansen, guaranteed full petroleum activity almost everywhere without prior sound investigations, while some of the party's government comrades at the time – at least Left – guaranteed the opposite, namely permanent protection. From this point of view, it is easy to understand why work on the future framework for Norway’s main industries was on the ground during the reign of Bondevik II. With the Workers' Party leader in government, one has not only completed the work on the management plan in the north, but has even completed the work on the management plan for the Norwegian Sea. This is a practical political capacity for implementation. Words and actions go hand in hand – that is. red-green policy in practice. In the time before us, we will both bring a kerosene message to the Stortinget and revise the 2006 management plan, which will otherwise be based on good professional knowledge and responsible analysis – not as some in this room conduct policies: by day-form and approach. Good management plans are very important for the petroleum industry, and therefore also for the supplier industry, as they constitute the framework for how the industry can operate. They ensure long-term and predictable framework conditions for all actors involved in these areas, both for the fishing industry, for travel life operators and, in particular, for the petroleum industry. The plans ensure the well-mentioned coexistence in practice, and it is one of the most important. In recent times, the global financial crisis has created new challenges not only for this industry, but almost all entrepreneurs around the world. Although some in the opposition tend to place our red-green government in charge of everything that is wrong, even most bourgeois politicians – hopefully – agree that it is in the past to claim that the policy of the red-green government is guilty of the financial crisis. I think the ball is more in the hands of those who want the market to run alone. The truth is the opposite. Responsible, active and predictable red-green policies have ensured that in Norway we have Europe's lowest unemployment, despite the crisis. We are affected by the crisis, and we are very dissatisfied as long as there are involuntaryly available hands in our country, that someone is out of work. But by basing this situation on – from a global perspective – we have managed relatively well. The government has been active in its countercyclical policy and spent oil money. We have put in place schemes that have ensured and strengthened the financing of Norwegian exports through a strong increase in the GIEK framework, while export finance received significant increases in its loans from the state. This has been an important instrument for the offshore supply industry, as a large part of industry’s turnover is in international markets. In addition, we have done a good deal with other framework conditions, not least with the permitting rules, to help both employees and businesses – this is also one of the framework conditions. As I have said before, I am very concerned about the supplier industry in the time to come. The point, however, is that the red-green government is pursuing an active industrial policy, and that makes us well equipped to meet the future. In North Norway, we have the tradition of'stand by'. I think the people of Norway will see that we do it. And it's easier "to stand off" with Jens Stoltenberg in his back than with two of the ladies on the bourgeois side who argue between themselves. Norway’s population will see that we are able to solve the crises, that we ‘stand him off’, and that we can also manage through difficult times.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e576	As others have pointed out, there is an important debate that the representative Meling is going to be here today. But the answer is not that one should simply start building up the Lofoten and the Vestral – without one having the necessary knowledge base, without one being sure that one does so in an environmentally friendly way and takes care of the fishing. It's true that Norway is an energy nation, and that oil and gas business has a good part of the era for our prosperity, but at the same time we also have a tradition of hydroelectric energy. It has meant that Norway is where we are today, and then we must also exploit the potential of our energy sources in the future – in the oil and gas industry, I am completely in agreement with it, but also in renewable energy that builds on the energy sources in water, in solar and in bio. At the same time, we are facing major climate and environmental challenges, so that in future energy use in production must be as environmentally friendly as possible. It is the oil and gas industry, fisheries and the environment, and therefore we need to go through a management plan and the possible impact of the Lofoten and the Vestral – in the light of what had to be seen in the management plan. In a commentary by Bjartmar Girde, who is now dead, I saw that our first oil politicians – our pioneers – were referred to and that they used the expression "swift" slowly. And that's exactly what gave the Norwegian people control over our energy resources, values that have benefited the whole people. It is true that any resources of oil and gas lying in the sea are there, they are not going to be gone, even if we take the necessary time to eliminate the consequences of further expansion in the oil and gas industry. The second is that we need to develop the technology, for example. CO2 capture. In addition, renewable energy opportunities – not only in more energy, but also in creating new jobs, green jobs, link to this energy. We should be able to have multiple thoughts in our head at the same time. Yes, we're going to exploit the gas and oil resources, environmentally friendly, both when it comes to where to open it and the technology to prevent emissions. Finally, we use billions on Kårstø and Mongstad, not only to save the environment, but also to exploit the great nutritional potential of developing such a technology. Once upon a time, oil and gas resources are not eternal, they are not renewable. We therefore need to exploit the expertise and technology provided by the oil industry, including in renewable energy production. This is necessary when it comes to energy efficiency, offshore wind power, bioenergy and the use of wave power – now we also see that there is an opening of a salt power plant – and not least when it relates to the further use of water power in the future. Energy will be the basis for the work on value creation in Norway for years to come, as it has been before. Nevertheless, the focus must be on as environmentally friendly production as possible, and there is a high potential in new green jobs.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e596	I would like to thank you for your good participation and many contributions to the debate. After hearing the representatives from the government parties, I understand why it takes so long to get a kerosene message, because it is clear that they have a challenge first and foremost to agree with themselves. It shows this debate with all clarity as regards the opening of the areas around Lofoten and the Westphalia. On the one hand, Soria Moria II is at the bottom, where it is said that an impact assessment should be carried out in 2010. Then the Workers' Party's representatives go to the pulpit and speak warmly for the development and preservation of industry, while the representatives from the Centre Party and SV go to the pulpit and make clear that they are against any petroleum activity in these areas. I have to say, in my simplicity, I thought that it was Soria Moria II that applied, and that the parties are behind this. But the government has first and foremost a job to do internally. It is not surprising that the industry is a major question mark in terms of what the Government intends to do in the future for the petroleum industry in Norway. The debate today shows that it has every reason to ask questions about this. I hope, however, that the Council of State will be able to gather the troops, that he will be able to make visible, that he has ambitions on behalf of the petroleum industry in Norway, that he will do something in the future, that he will acknowledge that we need to do new, great things. To do that, we need new, promising areas of exploration. This means that the challenges of the management plan, its roll-out in 2010 and the issue of impact assessment are of the utmost importance. I see that the work will be challenging, and I want all kinds of happiness in relation to the gap within the government parties. It was said that we could not get started earlier in the north. Yeah, we could start earlier. If we hadn't had a postponement in 2006, if we had gone for an impact assessment that time, we would have been much further in the process than what we are today. I fear, with the disagreement between the government parties, that we may be at risk of another postponement of questions in relation to the opening of these important and promising exploration areas in the north. We need to make new findings, we need more oil – the country needs jobs and jobs, the country needs revenues in view of the challenges we face in the future. Therefore, it is important that we have a government and a government council that shows ambitions on behalf of the petroleum industry and that will do something about the future development of this industry.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e607	I'm a little surprised that this debate more or less ended up in a debate that was somewhat similar to an old-fashioned criminal, where interpreting and assuming is the main job. I believe that if the opposition is genuinely concerned about signals of what the Government actually thinks, it is enough of thorough, good documents to read where the government's policy in this area is defined, of course, partly in the budget papers that come every year, and not least in the context of the management plan, which is a great, thorough work for our maritime areas, and where the government's policy is also defined. I think everyone who is concerned about the lack of signals towards the industry should take seriously the documents presented, take seriously the real policy contained in the documents, and also look at the predictability of these documents. I do not agree that there is any reason to use words such as ‘unpredictability’ and ‘lack of industry signals’ etc. on the petroleum policy in Norway at present. We've defined that through the processes I'm dealing with, among other things. now mentioned. Then it is also that neither the Right Party nor the Advance Party can define unforeseeableness as the same as the lack of opening in the Lofoten and the West Pole. I perceive the debate today and partly earlier so that as long as one does not say yes to the Lofoten and the Vestralen, there is unforeseeableness in Norwegian oil and gas policy. I totally disagree with that. That we have processes related to individual areas is nothing new. Norwegian oil and gas policy has been labelled until today, and it is going to be so on. I must say, without going to interfere so much with it, that after hearing the representative Meling and the representatives of the Left and Christian People's Party in the Chamber today, it is not that necessarily other government alternatives would mean that there was only one position in the question of the Lofoten and the West Pole – to say it carefully. That one spends time on those processes in a proper way, I think it is more to follow up Norwegian oil and gas policies than the opposite. Then I also find it interesting that the representative Solvik-Olsen, who has been an active participant in the oil and gas debates in Stortinget for many years, is now also more in the field of interpretation and vision. Then we are left with the fact that there are two things that are requested: it is that an oil and gas message should come before, and the second is that the Lofoten and the vester needle should have been opened. Otherwise, I perceive – and it is pleasant – that there are very few concrete objections to the policy being pursued.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e620	That being the case, it is no. 1 finished.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e636	Norway is often referred to as the world’s best country to live in, and I would like to say – quite rightly. We have had a wealth development that many can envy us. We have robust welfare systems that ensure a reasonable minimum level of security for the citizens. We also have a good and little conflicted working life. We have a high level of employment, and we've actually also been able to improve on the participation of older workers in the labour market. It is in this picture of what we often call the Nordic model – at least this is a description of a part of it – that there are still some holes. One of the largest is actually the large number that falls out of work, people who are in pre-employment. Sick leave is such a challenge. We have twice as high sick leave in Norway as the average in OECD countries. That's a country we can compare to. The main problem, in my opinion, is not the economic one, but that sick leave is very often the beginning of what is called a ‘social career’. I don't like the word and I'm not going to even use it, but I see that in the professional environments you use it. To put it another way: long-term sick leave is often the beginning of the outsourcing of the labour market. That's what's serious for two reasons: one is that we need this labour force. Looking at the longer term, we need better activity from the Norwegian part of the working mass. I am also very open to imports of labour. I think it's going to be necessary in the years to come, but the market there is going to be less as wealth development within the enlarged EU only accelerates. The second reason why this is dramatic is that it is a tragedy for those who are thrown out of work and become passive. I actually believe that the vast majority do not want such a situation, but are forced into it by system reasons or by attitudes that have gradually developed. In my opinion, this is the main problem of sick leave. I do not underestimate the fact that there is also a short-term absence, but it is the long-term absence that is the most increasing, and that is the main problem, because there is too much time between the occurrence of the disease and the availability of an activity offer. The main challenge for those who are a pathologist should be to minimise the disease reporting period, but it does not occur in the current system. So we need to do more to reduce sick leave in order to stop developments where an increasing proportion of people are falling out of work. We've had an I.A. for years now. The goal was to reduce sick leave by 20 pst. in relation to the second quarter of 2001. Measured against the result, the agreement must be said to have been a failure. I am nevertheless a member of the agreement. I believe that much can be done to improve the agreement, both with the instruments contained in the agreement, and new instruments need to be put on. Now that the Government and the social partners are working on new solutions to these challenges, it is important to identify new instruments that work. This does not mean that all the instruments contained in the agreement should be discarded, but it should be considered whether they are being used correctly, or whether action can be stepped up, and I believe that they should be taken by employees at an earlier stage. At any rate, the right has invited the Workers' Party, which has shown interest in this, to wide-ranging compromises on it. I hope that the Council of State will confirm that this will not only be an internal dispute in the Government, i.e. between the government parties, as it has so far disfigured, but also be an area where you invite the Stortinget to make its contributions. I'll mention some areas where we've made our contributions and will make our contributions. There is reason to ask why it is that the work on reducing sick leave in some industries has actually been quite successful, while other industries and other areas have been very poor. In general, the public sector is a nuisance in the development of sick leave. It should be a particular challenge for the Council of State because it represents a government that is the largest employer in the country, i.e. the employer for the state sector and with great influence on the local government sector. I recognise that there are exceptions also in the public sector. There are companies like Posten, who have worked systematically to reduce sick leave and have succeeded. But why aren't the good examples used to oblige others to do the same? For example, all departments have letters of assignment — it goes under different names — which tell each year what this activity is going to do in the coming year and what requirements the department imposes. In these letters, I am familiar, there is never a requirement for reduced sick leave in measurable sizes. Such demands should be able to be made at their underlying establishments. I also think it is important to make the costs visible, because there is one difference between private and public. In the private sector, reducing sick leave is a contribution to reducing costs. In the public sector it does not work in the same way, there are no incentives for reducing sick leave to give economic benefits to the business. Questions about medical control and information have also been raised. I agree with the Prime Minister that the Swedish system of norms – I set a line below norms – health care days related to different types of diseases are interesting to transfer to Norway. But then I would like to stress that there is a norm in this, not a directive. Doctors may deviate, but a systematic overview should also be provided of which doctors are systematically deviating, e.g. uses longer search times. To check the doctors, which is all the reason, because they manage billions of values on behalf of the public, or on behalf of taxpayers, there is also a need to have a basis for comparing them, and standard times of sickness for different diagnostics are such a tool. I also record that in Norway some new alternatives have been introduced to full medical report, i.e. partial medical report or pending medical report. Surprisingly, Norwegian doctors use these tools, in particular the pending medical report that I have seen figures on. The council gets to correct me if there are any up-to-date numbers, but 0.6 pst. was the last number I saw of doctors using this pending medical report. It is simply a message that you can go to work and see if you feel it all right, but if you have any problems, you have a search message in the back pocket. That's one way to get well, to say it like that, to be at home, there's experience in not getting well in some of the diagnostics you're facing. With regard to the state as an employer, I would like to say that, in addition to using the letters of assignment for municipal enterprises, there is also a need to look at the financial incentives. Is it, in fact, that state agencies and establishments that reduce their sick leave and make a strong and effective effort to do so are presented in the form of better financial conditions? Is it so that those who go the other way, who have a high level of sick leave and do not do enough to combat that development, also get sweat on their wallets? It's doing private businesses, because it's a cost, both bringing in agency workers and spending the first 16 days. But these incentives do not work in the public sector. I also miss a better use of demonstration companies, role models, because there are examples of public enterprises, both in the municipal and state sectors, that are doing well. It's e.g. nursing homes in this town that have a low, very low level of sick leave, and it's sick homes that have the exact opposite. Maybe it's a better way than just using whips, in addition to what I've mentioned, to use other ethos, comparable ethos, as an example, so learn from each other. In addition, I believe that the state should be a model in the whole process of reducing sick leave. The appearance of a grievances is no model for entering into negotiations with private social partners. In summary, I therefore have four challenges for the Council of State: Be specific in the instruments of the State as an employer, because it is the responsibility of the State itself. If the state as a party to these negotiations cannot say what you are doing yourself, you are making a slight statement. How to ensure that Nav uses the tools contained in today’s IA agreement, for example. dialogue meetings, more active? They don't do that today. How can we strengthen Nav in this area? How to strengthen the instruments already in the agreement, e.g.: previous dialogue meetings, previous re-occurrence? What new instruments does the Council of State have to point to? What political upswing does she expect to get about what she is now showing of new instruments?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e687	I fully agree with the representative Foss that the increase in sick leave is serious. Sick leave in Norway today is at a very high level, and developments are alarming. In the 2009 budget regrouping proposal presented by the Government on 13 November, we had to add an increase of SEK 3.2 billion to increased sick pay. In 2009, the cost of sick pay for workers has now been estimated at over 32 billion kroner. That's an increase of 4.6 billion dollars, or 16.7 pst. from actual expenditure in 2008. The growth of sick leave has thus increased strongly in 2009. The reasons for this and the extent to which the increase is temporary are unclear and uncertain. This is a development that cannot continue, partly because it is a heavy burden in terms of lost productive labour and increased public expenditure. But at least as important is that when people fall out of work, it affects their quality of life and participation in society. I have noticed that the strongest increase occurs among young people, especially women in the early 20s. This is particularly worrying when we know that sick leave increases the likelihood of exclusion from working life and the transition to sustainable social security benefits. The IA Agreement is an important tool to prevent exclusion from the labour market. The agreement has so far not given the desired results in terms of the decline in sick leave, but we have many good and positive experiences with cooperation with the parties on the IA agreement, and there is a lot of commitment around the IA work both centrally and locally. The starting point is that the workplace is an important area for preventing exclusion and facilitating the return of the sick to work. Therefore, as stated in the Soria Moria Declaration, the Government wishes to continue and further develop the IA Agreement in order to prevent exclusion and promote inclusion in the labour market. We want to maintain employees' rights in the health pay system. It is also clear that we will step up efforts towards a good working environment and continue to work to identify the causes of sickness and disability. The current IA agreement was originally due to expire at the end of the year, and the Government has started working with the main organisations for a new agreement. There is a report from a joint working group summarising the experience of the IA agreement in the current period and discussing key premises for further IA work. The recommendations of this group provide useful input to an improved and strengthened IA agreement on which it is important to build further on when discussing a new agreement. It points to, among others: that efforts need to be better targeted at establishments and sectors with a high level of sick leave and that binding performance and activity targets must be set at national and regional level. Furthermore, the group considers that there is a need to focus more strongly on systematic HMS work in individual activities and on developing a good knowledge base on sick leave, including gender, age, industry, etc. The report also concludes that there is a need to look at schemes, instruments and the development of sick leave in the other Nordic countries. We take these recommendations with us in the further work. At the same time, the Government believes that we need to consider a broader instrument package than the IA agreement in order to reverse the development of sick leave. In order to give ourselves the opportunity to consider a wider use of tools to reduce sick leave, we agreed at our meeting on 13 November with the parties to extend the current IA agreement until 1 March 2010. All the main organisations agree that the development of sick leave is alarming and support the Government’s approach towards signing a new agreement. The Ministry of Labour and Inclusion has appointed a group of experts to assess possible administrative measures relating, for example, to: health notification and follow-up practices, as the representative Foss referred to in his statement. The aim of the work of the expert group is to come up with proposals for changes to legislation and administrative follow-up systems that can help reduce absenteeism. We need an assessment and recommendation of both actions that can be implemented in the short term, and actions that need to be planned, improved and worked on over a longer period of time. The expert group shall submit its recommendations to the ministry by 1 February 2010. The Parties participate in a reference group for this work. In parallel, the Ministry shall also consider and discuss with the parties different models of the financing of the sickness benefit scheme by the employer, within the limits of income neutrality. Then, as the representative Foss said, it is also important that we look at arrangements that work in state activities. I have agreed with the parties that, in the light of these assessments, we are initiating concrete discussions on a new IA agreement in mid-January, with a view to the entry into force of a new and further developed agreement on 1 March 2010. As the representative Foss has pointed out, as a government council in the Ministry of Renewal and Administration, I also have responsibility for the development of sick leave within the State tariff area. Sickness in this tariff area has changed little since 2002 when disregarding the regular quarterly fluctuations. The medically reported absence has varied between 4 pst. and 4.9 pst. after 2004, while the self-reported absence has varied between 0,7 pst. and 1.5 pst. Total sick leave was 5.4 pst. in the second quarter of this year and was 1.7 percentage points lower than total sick leave in the labour market. Although the sick leave in the state area where I have a responsibility as an employer is lower than the average, we do not have a development here that I am satisfied with. I will follow these developments closely and follow up on the actions we come up with to assess better instruments for a more inclusive working life. Letters of assignment and management contracts may be key here. Another part of the public sector, which is outside my direct responsibility as an employer in the country and which has major challenges related to sick leave and exclusion, is the health and care sector. The public has a special responsibility for this, including: as ‘owner’ of the hospital sector. In St.meld. No 20 for 2006–2007, the National Strategy to Balancing Social Health Differences, notified the Government that it would initiate an investigation to look at the extent, causes and possible instruments of health-related absenteeism in the health and care sectors. The investigation shall be carried out by a wide-ranging sample, including: social partners and health and safety authorities are invited to participate. I have been informed that the Minister of Health and Health will facilitate a reduction in the sample before the end of the year. The Ministry of Health and Health will now convene all health businesses to a large conference on sick leave. In the future, all healthcare businesses will be required to draw up action plans to reduce their sick leave. Finally, I would like to warn against directly comparing our figures with OECD figures, even though sick leave in Norway is twice as high as in OECD countries. Sick leave schemes are very different in each country, and it is not necessarily the case that we get a proper comparison just by looking at the figures. The government assesses many measures to reduce sick leave and to reverse the very worrying development we have. An action will be implemented as early as the New Year. This means that we will receive occupational health services in eight new industries that are exposed to sick leave. I look forward to constructive cooperation with the parties on reducing sick leave. It is important to prevent workers from becoming ill and to help those who are ill to get back to work quickly. I'm going into the work on the starting point that we're going to show respect for those who are sick. The very people, most of them, are good and conscientious citizens to be trusted. We should reduce disease through prevention, better counselling and follow-up, of course not by pressing sick people to work when it is not good for them.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e719	With regard to the Council of State's polemics against OECD statistics, I would recommend that she take it up on a professional basis. Most countries try — but fail — to contest its comparability. In fact, I would venture to say that, by comparison, it may give Norway a position that is too favourable, because, in relation to other countries, we also have more and other forms of social security measures, which are outside the labour market. It has also been argued that the reason we have higher sick leave in Norway compared with Sweden, and that development has gone in the opposite direction – in Sweden it has fallen over several years, while in Norway it has been rising systematically over several years – is that we have so many older people in the workplace, but the relationship is actually the opposite. Sweden is on all available statistics, including, inter alia: from the country’s own seniority centre, Norway has a lower proportion of older people in the labour market than Sweden. Sweden is at the top of the OECD area, if one ignores Iceland, where the statistics are outdated and are no longer assumed to apply. Sweden is at the top, and Norway is at the bottom. I agree with the Council of State that this is also a budgetary problem, as the Council of State opened up. I actually want to say as a reason to do something about the development of sick leave that it is not ‘at least as important’, but it is much more important when so many workers fall out, because it is a long-term trend. The budgetary problems I can stress to the Council of State that I have experienced myself, and I think any government will experience as long as it is not able to reverse developments. But the longer term is the hardest thing to do, to throw too many good workers out of work. I think there was little new in the articles of the Council of State, but I noticed one sentence that I will take note of and appreciate. She said that ‘this is a development’ – i.e. sick absence – ‘that cannot continue’. This means that she has set the level of ambition for a new IA agreement quite high, because to date development has been unsatisfactory. The fact that the state's sick leave is lower than the average depends on how to compare. Compared, for example, with industry, the state is coming out badly. I remind you that some of the reasons we have for having the good health pay system are that it was assumed that there were a lot of heavy jobs in the industry, where sick leave could be well-founded in what we can call "old labourers", which are still very many of them in the industry. Nevertheless, many traditional and heavy industrial workplaces have managed to reduce their sick leave in an impressive way. We find the same thing all the time, not in state or municipal businesses.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e735	At least I have recorded in my work on the problem of sick leave that there are a lot of different arrangements around in the European countries. Some people have shorter periods of illness than we have in Norway, and others have completely different schemes, where people are listed when they are no longer ill. But I don't think that's the most important point. I think the most important point is that we focus on having too much sick leave in Norway and that we need to work to get sick leave down. It's the most important thing. I also think it is important that we focus on the follow-up of the sick, because if you go too far sick, the way to get permanently ill is very short. This is perhaps the main concern, especially when we see that so many young people fall out of work, both by being diagnosed for long-term illness, with longer periods of illness and a higher level of sick leave than has been the case lately, and that very many young people are also disapproved. Therefore, it is important that we focus on having good follow-up systems — employers, who are involved in signing the contract of inclusive employment. I think we have to work a lot to get good follow-up systems, that employers follow up those who are sick. The reports we get from Nav show that only one in ten companies carry out follow-up talks after 12 weeks. Now there's reason to think that the number is slightly higher than what was reported, but that's not good enough. The development of the 26-week conversation, for which Nav is responsible, has gone in a positive direction, from just every four having such a conversation, to something over 50 pst. Now, but also here we have a lot to go on. The same applies if you have been sick for a long time and it seems that you need to have other measures to get back to work. Then it is important that we have a system where the working capacity of the employee can be clarified early. I think we have to work on a number of measures. It will be important to have a good dialogue with the social partners. Those are the ones who know where the shoe prints the most. I look forward to continuing to have good dialogue with the parties and am pleased that the parties have also said positive about participating in a work to reduce sick leave. I think we're all good at that, not least those who get sick, and who stay out of work for a long time, because that's the safest way to get out. There are very few people who are not long-term sick, who come back to work. It's a big challenge for us, which we still have to work on.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e751	The increase in sick leave is very serious. It's serious because it's behind the numbers that are increasing, there are thousands of people who, for various reasons, cannot or are unable to work. The increased sick leave is serious for the people involved. It is serious for the companies affected by it, and it is serious for the state and for society as a whole. It's a disease sign that sick leave is growing so dramatically, and something has to be done. That is why debate is good, both here in the main hall and in the public. We need a wide-ranging debate to address the causes of absence and what we can do in the short and longer term to counteract it. That's why we need a broader focus in the debate than I think it's been so far. We need a debate that is more about reducing sick leave than about sick pay. I think that the debate has recently, after the Prime Minister presented the budget with the alarming figures for the increase in sick leave that we saw there, and when he, with it, invited to a precarious debate on how to reduce sick leave, that the debate too quickly got a little bit off and got into dealing with the sick pay system. I'm going to establish that our health pay system is good. It is also one of the main characteristics of the Norwegian welfare community. We should be proud of it, and we should preserve the rights of the sick pay system for the workers. That's what we're going to say. Nor is the sick pay scheme responsible for high levels of sick leave. Sometimes it sounds like this in the debate that if we just change or tighten up the system, the sick leave will sink. That's not right. It is the labour market that is responsible for the increase in sick leave, not welfare systems around it. If sick leave and disability are increased as much in the course of the last year, it will consume much of the growth in the Norwegian economy in the next few years. More people are going to experience loss of quality of life. That is why I look forward very much to the results of the processes that are now underway in the various groups and in close cooperation with the social partners, and to the debate that we are going to have in the future on ways to reduce sick leave. It is not possible to put under the chair that some of the increase in sick leave and some of the sick leave we have is, and has been, some sort of desired development. We have deliberately worked to get a greater share of part-time work into the labour market, as well as to have several older people work longer. It will also affect absenteeism statistics. But that's not what makes sick leave explode. We know a lot about why it's increasing, but the general picture is that we don't know enough about why it's increasing. More research is needed. We know that long-term absence is increasing. Short-term absences have been broadly stable. We know something about which groups it grows among, it's the young — young girls, pregnant, and young men in construction. When it's in the youth group the unemployment rate increases, and that it's diagnostically mental disorders that are increasing, we already know and have known for a long time that in juvenile psychiatry the queues are twice as long as in other psychiatry. We know something, and we should be able to take hold of it earlier. When youth unemployment increases, it is extremely worrying. We know that young people who leave early are more likely to be permanently out of work. Early leave is a gateway to disability. We got new numbers yesterday that showed that the number of juveniles is increasing. It's serious, and we have to look at the causes. If we look at the young long-term unemployed and disabled, there is one common feature that goes on – they have dropped out of school. Here we need to put in place measures to keep sick leave and leave low in this group in the long term. When looking at the groups and their causes, we should be able to draw the conclusion that, for example: Youth psychiatry or school drop-out interventions are a much more relevant measure to discuss both sick leave and long-term unemployment than sickness benefit schemes. We know that it's those who don't complete high school, it's those who have parents who themselves have been sick, disabled or unemployed, it's those with low education and those with poor living conditions who obviously cut low on health and thus are also out of work most often, permanently and temporarily. It tells us something about the fact that general, good and strong welfare schemes that reduce differences in living conditions, education, income and hence health are essential to limiting unemployment and limiting sick leave. That is what the debate needs to be more about, and I look forward to the further discussions we are going to have on this in the future in the Grand Duchy, so that together we can arrive at broad instruments in the fight against the increase in absence.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e777	We are invited to discuss a big and important matter, and one that will certainly be discussed many times in the future. There is little doubt that we have had a development in the last year, especially in terms of the increase in sick leave, which is undesirable. Looking at the overall impact and objectives of the IA agreement, which was launched in 2001, the target has not been achieved. I'm also a little bit surprised, and at least ask questions, when you talk about the huge increase we've had in sick leave within some groups. Based on the statistics I'm sitting with, which is Nav's, sick leave was 6.3 pst in 2001. As of today's date, in 2009, it is 6,3 pst. But then from 2008 we've had an increase of 6.0 pst. to 6.3 pst. It is worrying – there I fully agree with both the interpellant and those who have spoken in the past – that we have not achieved the objective of 20 pst. reduction. When we also see how these costs will increase in the future, it is worrying, and we need to put in place both good and right measures to bring down the figures. I also find it interesting to note that some of the debaters here today – that was well the representative of Trettebergstuen – indicate that the sick leave of young people has increased. That's right. But then we also hear a lot in the debates that we have got more older workers in, and then we have to expect an increase in sick leave. The truth is that if we take the 50 age group and until 69 years from 2001 to 2009, we have suffered a relatively severe decline in sick leave in that group. If we look at the 16-to-34-year-olds, we've had an increase. I also think one should dry to take some kind of moral debate. I think in many ways it is that the older workers have a much more stringent and better work ethic than the younger group. Is it so that in my generation it is too easy to take out a search message, that the threshold has become too low? We also see, as the representative Trettebergstuen had in mind, an increase in mental disorders. Then I also find it interesting to note one of the articles that appeared in the evening post at the beginning of October, where young people with mental disorders stood out and said that doctors' medical practice has made them feel sicker, that they should never have been taken out of the job, and that they should have been involved in the work. The medical practice that was followed at the time has led many people not to return to work, but to the opposite end of their career. We got a few days later some sunshine stories that showed that someone has come back, but then through the line of work. I record that the Council of State has dropped a sample, and that the sample has received two months. I'm recording what the head of the sample said to today's Business on November 28th this year: ‘We shall bring together knowledge that already exists. In the short time, we can't figure out that much new." I think you should have started this work a long time ago. I also think you should have taken the time to look at the situation in other countries, among other things. in view of how sick leave has fallen in Sweden, with the permitting arrangements. The refresher and senior scientist Red is also involved in the permitting arrangements. Can it bring us new knowledge – that we have a part that is on sick leave statistics, and that it is used in some companies in terms of migration, etc.? In that case, we should also put in place measures to limit it. Finally, I think we should dry up thinking a much larger whole in terms of sick leave. I think maybe the most important thing is to initiate action at an early stage, by making Nav work, which has not worked until today. We launched some new measures already in 2007. Those measures have not yet begun to practise Nav. In addition, we should take a close look at the health care system. For me, it is totally incomprehensible that you can have been sick for six months pending the completion of a simple human rights operation. It also indicates that we have a health care system that is not good enough to reduce sick leave.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e801	The increase in expenditure resulting from a high level of sick leave is serious for society as it eats up much of the space available in the economy to carry out important societal tasks. However, let it be clear that the greatest seriousness is linked to what sick leave can mean for the individual employee. If you are ill for the whole one-year period, it is less than 20 pst. the probability of getting back to work. This is a remarkably poor guarantee of the right of individual workers if the success criterion is health and return to working life, for those who do not come back to full employment are mainly on some kind of social security scheme. Many end up with permanent disability pension, usually after several years of testing, rehabilitation and too many a fight against the system before the disability benefit is granted. This situation can be avoided, but it is also necessary to ensure that those who are sick receive proper treatment at the right time. It is well and good to enjoy a generous health pay scheme of 100 pst. compensation, but when the result for many is a social security with about 60-65 pst. compensation, is not the joy forever. Too many people might find the search message the solution. Many who participate in the public vocabulary on sick leave point to the fact that there is work presence and the mastering of disease, injury or Lythosis that is crucial for slowing down the growth of sick leave. Therefore, it is of course essential that we point out from the authorities that 100 pst. medical notice shall only be used in exceptional cases and graduated solutions shall be the regulated form of medical notification. It is also essential that more targeted work is done in the workplace to facilitate the work of sick people, because if we are to succeed in achieving our goals, it is more important to go to work with the healthy part of ourselves than to be at home with the sick. Here the country as an employer should be a model. But, as the interpellant took up in his post, the state is unfortunately often a nuisance. We are constantly given examples of public sector attitudes that show some of the reasons why sick leave is maintained at a high level, namely that there is an accepted high level of sick leave from management levels in different sectors. There are good reasons to understand why some jobs provide more wear and tear than others, but it should inspire an increased focus on the visibility of causes and organisation of the workplace, not for managers in e.g. the hospital sector states that a sick leave of 10 pst. It's okay. Because a sick leave of about 10 p.m. is definitely not quite possible, either for the workplace or for society and at the very least for those who get long-term sick and never come back to work. One of the challenges of the sick absence debate is that it tends to push different actors into the trenches rather than into the round table. We have experienced this in the Right several times during the last year – yes, the week – as we have made a number of suggestions to reduce sick leave. Among other things, the trade unions believe that it was premature for the Right to make proposals now that the parties would revise the IA agreement. It's no wonder we don't succeed in such an approach. The games play an important role in sick leave work, but any proposals relating to their role are mainly met with criticism. Is there really nothing about doctors' health care behavior that can change, so that we are all going to achieve our common goals and obligations? Employers tend to point to Nav as the big plug in the system, but it is not that employers are without their own responsibility to facilitate it. At the same time, it is important to point out that many companies, especially in industry, have been successful in their IA obligations. The question then is: why do people and others not succeed? As the interpellant said, isn't it time for us to use the good examples and experience to share joy, so that we can achieve the goals? Now that the Prime Minister and the Council of State have made a number of contributions to the IA work, it is joyous. It's a pleasure that the government is finally on the road. It has been a little lonely for the Right to be the only party – apparently – that has been concerned about development. It is also gratifying that the government is relaunching up to several of the proposals of the Right, and that experience is gained from the good work that has been done by the moderate government in Sweden to reduce sick leave. And as I said, right will cooperate with the Workers' Party and the Government on solutions to bring the absence down. If we are to fight the social security explosion, the sick leave is one of the areas in which we must succeed in the years to come. As the Council of State said, we are all worthy of that.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e822	First to the Progress Party, which is playing with the idea of removing the self-notification days. Then I want to say, Forget it! It only affects those with unsafe and unforeseeable working conditions and the low pay. Others have secured themselves through agreements and will never be affected by them. So this is pure class policy. It's very worrying that it seems that people get more sick. Then we have to find out whether this is due to work, or whether there are other reasons. The government has now reduced a selection to work on this in the long term, because it is very important. We have to look at what's at the workplace that makes people sick. And then it's very important to look at the good examples, where they actually got off sick. For example, the municipality of Mandal, which has 365 days of self-announcement, and the TINE dairy in Melhus, which has a 6-hour day, has had its sick leave very reduced. New tour arrangements in care and care in Harstad have greatly reduced sick leave, they have caused people to go into full-time jobs, and one has predictable working arrangements. They know who they're going to work with, when they're going to work, and what they're doing – at all, they have orderly relationships with control over their work situation. I've also looked at sick leave statistics in Nav, and it's getting ugly. It may show how important it is that your work situation is predictable, and that you feel that you have control and master the tasks you have. It's a leadership responsibility. Rica Hell, for example, has done good things with sick leave for the cleaners by simple arrangement, and it has worked. When the IA agreement was first concluded, I sat in the municipal committee and traveled with it. In some municipalities, sick leave went down very quickly, and then I said, "What have you done?" Then they said, "What we did was we disapprove of those who were most ill." There is no good objective in relation to the IA Agreement, because the IA Agreement has three main objectives. So it's also about the second main goal: to include people and get those who are out of work again. One of the things Per-Kristian Foss said – and I agree very much – is that this is about the expulsion from the labour market. But it is also about exclusion from the labour market. This means that both an employer and a colleague have to find ways to work, which means that they also work with people who are not 100 percent each day, or who sometimes have to be sick. If not, it's not about work to everyone! That's what we have to do, and in a number of jobs employers say it's hard to get this organized. There's not enough work to do it. I would then like to warn against such arrangements which say that then one should work 50 pst. somewhere else, you have to quit your job and move somewhere else – maybe to a job where there is a new feeling of insecurity. So to medical practice, especially because we see that mild mental disorders and musculoskeletal disorders are the diagnostics that are increasing, I'm very concerned about the practice of doctors. I get too many messages from people who say that the only thing they get is a prescription and a search message. The doctors never have time to talk to them, never time to follow them up, the employer never hears from them, and that means they feel it's okay to be rid of them, because they're a problem. The doctors kind of don't take hold of what could help them. That's why I'm very concerned that we should look at the practice of doctors, especially because we know that many of the young people who fall out of work belong to this group. I have also reviewed the statistics of those under 25 years of age who are being disabled. Very many of them have many, very heavy diagnostics. I think we have a very long-term work ahead of us to catch these kids pretty early, because we have them in the system all the way from kindergarten up through school. There was one who once said to me – and I think that is quite right: the path from the infidel and failed young to the disadvantaged, the rush, the unemployed and the insured adult is paved with strong research that the context is unambiguous. That means we have a very important job to do to kids in the risk zone. We know that they won't get into work as they should, and they have abilities and opportunities that they never get triggered. Some of the worst things about these things may be -- because we can't deal with this in a better way -- that we could have raised the quality of life of these people incredibly. And there are resources that society has an incredible amount of use for.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e837	This is a debate we all agree on the importance of taking. It is also a debate in which we all agree on the seriousness of the situation. Nor can I escape the idea that the entrance we now see that the Progress Party and the Right have taken on the sick pay scheme, testify to the strength of this scheme in the Norwegian society and among the Norwegian people. The challenges pointed out are probably one of the greatest in our time: a reality where the wheels of society are moving faster and more are being pushed out. This leads to loss of productivity, resulting in a reduction in the quality of life for the individual and significantly increased costs to the large community. I have two considerations that I want to address. When we discuss the sickness pay scheme, you always get the impression that this is a scheme that is available to the entire Norwegian people. But it's not like that. If you are self-employed, you do not participate in the arrangements that we are discussing here. Then there are both worse arrangements and a lot of qualifying days. So the arrangements are not for everyone. The second perspective that I think it's important to involve is with sustainability over time. Then it is important to see sick pay along with the degree of disability and disability, and the fact that more and more people go out of work earlier than they did before. Let me say that the Center Party fully agrees that we should not reduce the employee's rights. It's a fundamental security that we have full coverage, that we don't have to go to work when you're sick. It is an important part of the freedom of the labour market. Nevertheless, there is one prerequisite for this to last in the future that it is completely impossible to get out of the way, namely that the arrangements have to last over time and within a generation account. Without sustainability over time, it is also my opinion that all Norwegian welfare systems will be put under debate and under pressure, including this one, and it further underlines why it is so important that through these debates and this discussion we are able to reduce sick leave. I also think it's important that these perspectives come out and become part of the public vocabulary, perhaps to a greater extent than what we've seen every time they've come up. I would therefore like to say that I also think that the cost perspective, not least in the longer term, is a very important perspective in this debate, perhaps more important than the interpellant in its introduction. If you look at the total increases in the budget of the people's fear or in the cost of popular security, this is not sustainable over time, as I see it. So a little concrete about the different measures: for the Central Party, we have no problem taking seriously the figures presented by the OECD, although I agree with the Council of State that there are many sources of error. We should have respect for that, too. I think it is very important to look at the relationship between long-term health report early in the career and early in the career. It underlines the need for more knowledge. Of course, we support the IA agreement. It must be concluded that the results have not been satisfactory. At the same time, it's one of the most important tools we have, and that's why we should keep doing it. We are not opposed to norms on medical reports in relation to doctors. It is important to go in and look at how those schemes work, but it is also important that it is a norm. I agree with the interpellant in his assessments there. So for incentive schemes related to the employer’s payment structure. There, I think that within a province-neutral framework – I want to stress Proven Neutrality, which I think is a very wise input from the Government – it should be possible to build incentive schemes that make it more attractive for the employer to get the employee back to work. A broad settlement around these things is definitely not the Center Party against.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e859	I think the debate we have here in the Chamber today, and the one going on in the public room, is very good. Sick leave is not just about being sick, so you can get the impression when you hear the arguments from the Right and the Advance Party. These arguments, in my view, have a too one-sided focus on the measures alone; they are mainly related to the relationship between the employer and the employee. The party of progress will magic them away by cutting out appropriations for social security from New Year's, and is perhaps the party that talks the most about 'bad in will'. I think that's a disease that's only on the Progress Party's diagnostic list. Sometimes there is a feeling that the policy of the Progress Party is a bit like this: out of sight, out of mind. If we remove it from the budget, it's gone. Doing something durable and consistent with the integration of more people into the world of work has to do with the great context of society. It is a challenge that requires the broad solutions, and it is particularly important to follow up the Prime Minister's invitation to a wide-ranging debate where tripartite cooperation is central and to further develop the IA Agreement. We have the lowest unemployment rate in Europe — and one of the world’s best welfare systems. When I hear the argument from the Right, it might almost sound as if the latter is a little suspicious. I am proud of both the low unemployment and the good welfare arrangements. But we all agree that we have too many people who are out of work today. We have to work even harder to get more people to work. In recent days, we have heard in the media about young people who are struggling with anxiety and who are getting help too late, and about the increase in the number of mild mental disorders that are being diagnosed. Forecasts say that we will have more people with permanent diseases like coal and diabetes, and in particular there will be more with mental disorders like anxiety and depression and drug dependence in the years to come. The most important thing is to reverse the large and massive contexts that distort health among the population, and to follow up the measures such as St.meld. No 20 for 2006–2007, the national strategy to address social health inequalities. The interaction reform, with a focus on past efforts, more prevention and better coherence in services, will be an important contribution to preventing many from becoming so sick that they are long removed from and gradually out of work. For the Workers' Party, work is one of the most important welfare objectives, not to say the most important one, in a welfare country. We know a lot today about the relationship between participation and good health, much more than we did before. We know that having a job to go to is a good thing. It's good for us in general, because it gives me access in a larger context and creates social values, and in small things, because I have someone to talk to every day, I get friends and acquaintances and hear new, and the satisfaction of doing a good job does something about our self-respect and pride. Therefore, absence is a double threat. It leads to more isolation, poorer networks, and some experience exclusion, and it leads to lower value creation in society. So in the interests of the individual and in the interests of the community, it is also a challenge for us that sick leave and being out of work affect many. People with mental and drug problems who do not have a job, state that what they miss most, are not more medical hours or hospitalisations – or, for that matter, maybe longer medical notice. No, they want most of all to be part of a community, have friends and a social network. Loneliness and isolation are the main negative consequences of a working life that cannot adapt to the fact that everyone is different. We often talk about sick leave as a constant size. Is it gone up or down? But sick leave is not a constant size. Complexity is evident in the statistics, which are also referred to in several articles in the debate here today. Sick leave varies from state to state, from profession to profession, and it varies between sex and age. It varies with downtime and uptime, and health and mortality are related to social and economic conditions. There are unfortunate combinations between social status and health and disease. St.meld. No 20 for 2006–2007, the national strategy to address social health inequalities, shows that we need to improve the health of the population, we need to reduce these differences. Agderforschung has studied what can explain the high incidence of miscarriage among young people on Agder, and the title of the report is: A life I did not choose. It also points to the link between education, school, family and social culture as essential in order to give young people better access to social life and work.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e889	It is widely agreed that sick leave in Norway is high. It is therefore an important discussion that the interpellant addresses today. Everyone has a responsibility for their own health, and everyone who is able to do it has to work. It's an important part of the social contract we all have -- it's part of the social pact. Sickness benefits should be bright, but sometimes we may need a little tightening. If you are healthy, you should initially work! Sick leave is high in geographical areas where jobs are lost. In several places, this suggests that people get sick because there are no job opportunities for them. It is strange that in Norway we are not more willing to move where there is work. Perhaps it is better to allow workers to see it as appropriate to move? The healthcare sector is the area where sick leave is highest. 9.5 pst. is high, but in the opinion of the Left, there has been too little focus on the causes. It is in the health and care sector that the promises are heavier, that is where we are most dependent on labour in the future, and that is where people disappear from work at the earliest. That is why the Left has proposed a greater focus on labour-saving technologies. We also think all kinds of flexible tournaments are positive, for example. have been used in Bergen so-called oil platform shifts with 12 hours of guards for short periods of time, with a lot of freedom afterwards. All parties appear to be satisfied. The IA agreement marks the tripartite cooperation, but not all employers take good enough responsibility for the working environment. Conflicts in the workplace are quite common, often with search messages as a result. It is on the limit of misuse to use a search message when a person does not deal with conflicts at work. There are many bad leaders around Norway. Unfortunately, there's a lot of public stuff to clean up. But it may also be that we nordics deal badly with conflicts, maybe we are a conflicty people. We'd rather get sick when the conflict is first out, than meet and deal with the conflict. However, this needs to be seen in the context of the many reports on poor work environment, harassment and leaders who do not care to clean up, often with long-term sick messages as a result. Unfortunately, the public is a mess here. Many public leaders are never measured in the work environment and, unfortunately, work environment surveys are only started when it is no longer possible to hide the dissatisfaction. Here it is a long way to go, and the state and municipality have something to learn from the share of good players in private business. Here I think the interpellant from the Right had many good points. Organised work will have a lot to say for groups that today have easily become 100 pst. sick, may be in part-time work. We know that the longer you're away from work, the harder it is to get back. Today, Kristin Clemet writes in the Evening Post that 20 p.m. of all persons in pre-employment who are not in work. We must not send signals that the state is the option you can afford, lean on, and that will always bail you out. Citizens themselves must take responsibility for the welfare society of the future. Add to specialist assessment following, for example: Six months of health care seems to be a good idea, but can quickly lead to over-consumption of specialist health services and even longer queues. We want the decision-makers to be able to make more extensive use of judgement. This presupposes that doctors are also made aware of their responsibilities. In particular, in the case of short-term absence, some employers complain that some doctors are not good enough to implement the flexibility schemes already in place. Easier, slightly indefinable mental disorders don't always end up with sick messages. It might not be so easy to get sick. It's important that we look forward to the future. Our children will inherit good welfare schemes that will also be sustainable. To make it possible, there is not one solution, a quick fix, but there are many different solutions. If the so-called ‘holy drinking’ disease can be reduced by introducing a withdrawal date in line with OECD recommendations, this increase must also dare to discuss it. We must dare to discuss why so many rather end up on, possibly choosing to end up on, public schemes instead of working. Maybe we'll sew pillows under the arms of people? Perhaps citizens need to be reminded of the social pact on which the welfare state is based? Perhaps the Storting needs to revitalise the social pact for citizens?
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e915	There is no doubt that we have too much sick leave, especially when we also see that we actually have a good working life here in the country. There has been no greater and greater burden on workers now than before, at least not physically, so there should be no reason why we should have as high a sick leave as we have today. I believe that we cannot just transfer responsibility to the employer, because this is quite complex. But what you might have to do is look at developments that are perfectly clear. There are three groups that stand out where sick leave increases. It's people with muscle and skeletal disorders, it's people with mild mental disorders, and it's pregnant. It is then necessary to look at the kind of targeted action to be taken for these groups. Then you have to stop talking about older workers and those who have more severe disabilities, who are responsible for the large amount of sick leave, because it's not the ones who are responsible for the increase. What has happened in the last few years on the public side? Is there any interaction between what is happening on the job and what is happening elsewhere in the health care system? In the period when this increase in incapacity for work is seen within these groups, there is also an increase in waiting times in the health sector. A longer waiting period has been provided for radiological examination, and it is even more difficult to receive treatment for muscle and skeletal disorders. The same applies to minor mental disorders. So there's no connection and interaction here, and it won't get any better, even if you get a good deal between four parties, which you're now talking about. You have to have the fifth party on the team, and that's the health sector, because there's a big failure. What makes people sick? And you have to think more about that. It's not necessarily the workplace that makes people sick. It can be lifestyle, it can be family situation, and of course it can be the workplace. But it's also about, as has been said earlier here, attitudes to going to work. I think at least the more you talk about that work makes you sick, the more sick people get to work. You don't get sick when you work, and you don't get well at home. Many diseases are not treated by a doctor either. You say it's the doctor's responsibility, and the doctor should talk. It doesn't help you with muscle and skeletal disorders if your doctor sits and talks. That person must be properly treated. We also have a profession, the naprapaths, who are doing a great job in Sweden, where there are hundreds of them in the public health sector. In this country, naprapaths have still not been opened for authorisation, so that they can become part of the public health system and do a good job for many of them with muscle and skeletal disorders. In the case of pregnant women, it has almost become a trend that you should be able to get sick much longer than you could before. Many pregnant women have a pelvic solution and may need to get to such a treatment — or they may need tools to prevent them from being at home. Just being at home and not getting the treatment you need, you get sicker, and that can lead to permanent disability. So here our health sector has to be set up. We see that some companies choose to buy health insurance. It would be interesting to see if these companies get people back to work faster. Some companies also choose to purchase operations or treatment services for their employees. So this is met with punishment in the form of a tax on the employee and also by the employer. It is not related to giving the employer more responsibility for being able to work. In that case, at least the employer must be able to help the employee get back faster without additional taxes being imposed. Interaction is therefore not limited to municipalities and healthcare. That's the whole thing. So we have to deal with our offers. ‘Rasers back’ is about getting a quick health offer. When the Progress Party here is accused of conjuring away the disabled and sick, it must be great. That's what you're going to do. And the way to magic is actually to give a good health offer, quick treatment, quick rehabilitation, be in place when the sick need it, and also tell people that it's not dangerous to go to work. You can get guidance, you can get help, and you can get help – that's the means the Progress Party uses: faster help, rehabilitation and organisation at work. That's what needs to be, because it doesn't help to negotiate until neither one thing nor the other if we don't set up all the men.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e934	The representative Trettebergstien used an old script this time. It was completely unnecessary to make a contribution against reduced benefits – I did not mention it at all, so there is a debate that is not really going on – but from there to say that it would not have had any effect if the benefits for the employees were lower, there is no evidence for. OECD statistics are unique in this area. Countries with lower benefits have less use of the sickness benefit scheme. However, when I do not address it, it is because the social partners have a position here that makes it impossible to cooperate on effective measures if such arrangements are included. But that a government once in the future may still have to do it if not a new IA agreement works, I want to underline. Nor can it be explained that all problems lie in Norwegian working life. There is not so much difference between Norwegian and Swedish working life that it is possible to halve sick leave in Sweden, while it is not possible in Norway. The explanation is simply a lack of effective action. For the sake of balance sheet, let me also tell the representative Borten Moe that I actually fully agree with his reasoning that the main argument against high sick leave is a lack of sustainability over time, and that concerning the expulsion of workers – we need them – but that also applies to the financial. What I argued against was that I don't think the most important thing is just the short-term budgetary problems, but the long-term economic challenges. I can say that I fully agree with his remarks at that point. I noted that in his speech the Council of State repeated the excellent proposal made by the Prime Minister at the LO conference on Gol, where he referred to the Swedish experience which is good with the eyes of both workers and with the eyes of Swedish doctors, namely norm days of sick leave. I noted that the representative Karin Andersen in a media debate as late as yesterday characterised this proposal by the Prime Minister as pointless. I do not know if that is the reason why the Council of State is no longer involved in its repertoire, but I hope that it has not been added, because there is a system that has proved to be good both in controlling the doctors and in getting sick leave down. In conclusion, I would just like to say that in terms of the progeny neutrality of actions to employers, I agree with that, but it is not just to look at the total progeny neutrality. You also have to look at the schemes so that they do not seem particularly unfavourable to employers with few employees. A hairdressing shop with e.g. two to three employees can be hit quite hard if you have to pay for a long-term sick leave that is compensated for only by the relief of the employer’s tax. So also in the workplace you have to look at the effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e947	I would first like to thank you for a good debate on an important issue. I think it's important that we focus on the problem of sick leave in the future, and I think there's been a lot of important input here today. At the same time, I think it is important that we look at the work on the IA agreement as a fairly long-term work, and it is quite right that we have not yet succeeded in part of the work we have done in connection with the IA agreement. Among other things, it is clearly linked to sick leave. I was not quite sure what the representative Eriksen meant, but we consider it a problem that we have only had an increase of up to 10 pst this year. of the absence and, in the case of payments, the expenditure has increased by 16.4 pst. So it's important to remember that not everything is black and white. The industry has succeeded, but we have not succeeded in the same way in construction. We have to learn from it. So it is not that we have failed to do something, for example. for those with musculoskeletal disorders. During the period of operation of the IA Agreement, the proportion of sick-patients has been reduced from 45,5 pst. to 41 pst. – so we have also succeeded. I want to remind you that within the IA agreement there are two other targets. We have not been good at getting more people with reduced working capacity into the workplace. But when it comes to increasing the actual take-off age, we have succeeded, with 0.6 years' worth of work in general. Here the state has actually been better than the rest, with a 1.1 year's work. There will be many good annual works of it. Then the representative asked Foss why I did not mention the Swedish diagnostic model in my post. What I said in my speech was that a professional expert group should assess the possibility of administrative measures related to, for example, the use of the Internet. health-related practices and follow-up of the subject. Within that, we are open to consider different measures. I think it's right to look at the Swedish model. We may not be adopting the whole Swedish model, but parts of it are at least worth looking at in the further process. In the end, I would like to say that there is a difference between Norwegian and Swedish working life. That's what we see when we look at the unemployment figures. Norwegian labour market developments are quite different from Swedish. Initially, I asked some questions about the comparisons we are doing. I think it's important to see wholes in this area as well. I am at least pleased that the Norwegian labour force is in a completely different and much more positive situation in terms of unemployment than the Swedish.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e962	Case No. 2 has been completed.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e978	The theme of the previous interpellation is of great interest in this interpellation. It is of crucial importance also for the topic we are dealing with now, competitiveness. One of the key assumptions for Norwegian future well-being is among others: Whether we're the world's best at employment, as we like to make it, or whether we're at the top of the world in pushing people into social security. The difference is quite crucial. The first one increases the ability to create value, the last one reduces the potential value creation, and instead loads up the security network we all want. I want to focus on Norwegian competitiveness in a general perspective. It has been interesting to follow the re-entry of the Minister of Finance into central Norwegian policy. In an interview in Today’s Business at the end of October, focusing on the situation of Norwegian business exposed to competition, the Minister of Finance said, among others. that the weakening of competitiveness gives ‘reason for unlocking the eyes’. I hope the Minister of Finance was not as surprised as it seemed. In the same article, Today’s Business wrote that Norwegian industrial workers’ wages were 15 p.m. over our trading partners in 1996, while today they are 43 pst. over. We must be more competent and significantly smarter than our trading partners in order to maintain such differences! We've put the financial debate behind us. Many of the prerequisites for the development of Norwegian competitiveness in the short term lie here. I noticed that several red-green politicians repeated Stoltenberg's boast from the election campaign that we were ranked tenth on the World Bank 'Doing Business' ranking. Nobody said we had fallen from fifth place since 2005. This is not a dramatic race, but it is worrying, especially if we continue in that direction. These figures show that the red-green government was unable to prioritise Norwegian competitive business during the previous period. It may be a long time before we again experience a period in which the space of action and the opportunities to prioritise central stakes are as good as in the first three years of the period of the red-green government. Although the Minister of Finance obviously wants to get back focus on these challenges, we do not understand that the priorities must be made in the future under tougher international framework conditions than we have had in recent years. The World Bank ranking consists of a number of indicators. Norway weakens its position in nine out of ten of them. The study suggests, however, that the red-green government has not substantially exacerbated Norwegian framework conditions. It is rather other countries that have improved their framework conditions and have been dynamic in their policies. The study therefore appears to confirm that the red-green government has suffered from a status quo syndrome and that there has been a lack of pressure and ambition for improvement of the Norwegian economy. ‘Competitiveness’ is a difficult and not completely unambiguous concept. Finally, it is about maintaining and developing a value creation in Norway that can support the level of wealth we have developed. Basically, it is about ‘getting smarter’ — we need to create more value out of available resources than before compared to our trading partners. If we do that, we can also carry a higher cost level. We're good in Norway. Economically, Norway has evolved as a dream. We just did that. We feel a united pride by being ranked by the UN as the ‘best country in the world to live in’. The challenge of policy is therefore to ensure professional participation and productivity, so that Norwegian competitive activities can continue to develop in Norway, with this as a prerequisite. The NHO writes in the «economic overview» 4/2009: ‘In the submission of the State budget, Norwegian hourly wage costs in the single currency were 49 per cent higher than in our competitor country compared to 43 per cent as an average for 2008 and 32 per cent when the krona was at its weakest in the fourth quarter of 2008.’» This reveals that Norwegian industry has shown a fantastic ability to increase its ability to value, so that they can still exist in Norway. It also shows where the central exchange rate is. Major oscillations will be very difficult to deal with. The Norwegian economy is special. Discussing competitiveness in a country with high and dominant oil revenues, high trade surplus and relatively low unemployment is obviously a pedagogical challenge. Most people do not perceive a crisis when the financial crisis also has a bearing on Norway’s main source of revenue: oil. There the price has fallen from the starry sky and down to what was the dream level just a few years ago. We can easily get the idea that we are immune to the movements of the international economy in Norway. The Minister of Finance has managed to change the focus of the economic debate strongly, but there is so far a lot of talk. I like the focus on sustainability and a balanced development of the Norwegian economy in an international perspective and signals that we need to focus on industry. But no grip has been taken, and the rhetoric from the red-greens has followed a pattern we know from the past few years – so also in the financial debate, which was last Thursday. Many important debates are held in a very simplified rhetorical steel grip. The tax system is discussed exclusively from a distribution point of view. That it is also the foundation of value creation, one rarely hears or never hears anything about. Schools, education, research, commerce and other important social areas are discussed on the basis of the amount of money spent and not in results. To focus on competitiveness, the quality of money use needs to be given a completely different focus in awareness and debate. In view of this, I must commend the Minister of Finance for his inauguration. The use of oil money shall return to the rule of action during the four-year period, the increase in expenditure must be under control and future value creation must be ensured. This is music in my ears, and it's very important that he succeeds. I'm going to give my contribution to focusing on this, therefore also this interpellation. But for the time being, I note that the Minister of Finance talks as much as he can about a policy direction as the budget with which he declared satisfied does not contain so much. The main strategy of the Minister of Finance of the 1990s was solidarity and that the protected sector had to listen to and adapt to the competitive sector. That must also be the lead forward. Valuation in the competitive sector finances public value creation. There has to be a balance here, and it also has to be more than oil on one side. A lack of and strong ownership may be the key prerequisite for ensuring such a development. The state cannot take over all roles, especially in this area. Measures such as tax incentives on employees’ purchases in their own enterprises, stock discounts and general reductions in property taxes have been stamped for a period of time as measures aimed at ‘the rich’. I know that the 1990s Finance Minister Johnsen had a more nuanced view of this, and that at that time a number of measures of this kind came to strengthen value creation. I hope the Minister of Finance has his pedagogical skills and can bring the majority to it this time as well. The finance minister's biggest short-term challenge is enough to avert the fact that we are developing even stronger trends towards a two-part economy. Special interest rate increases at the root of an optimism in the protected sector will greatly reinforce the trends of a two-part economy. I perceive his very clear signals that we are going back to the rule of action long before 2018, as the forecast in the state budget is, to be the most important defence agency in the short term. Markets must believe that this is realistic and that the signals are followed up by action. As oil-dependent as the Norwegian economy has become, this job can also be made easier by the fact that the oil price is significantly higher than the forecasts in the State budget suggest, but it can also go the other way. This must therefore not again obscure the need for long-term and structural interventions. The growth of expenditure in the State budget must be controlled rapidly if Norwegian competitive activities are to be developed further in Norwegian soil. Modernisation of the public sector and increased industrial innovation and development will be key issues. Numerous private ownership and the focus on competition and efficient use of resources are core elements. I look forward to the debate – both now and in the longer term – on these issues.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1013	There are interesting interactions that the Stortinget is discussing today, from the question of the supply industry to the oil industry, through sick pay and exclusion from the labour market to the conditions surrounding the competitiveness of the mainland industry. All these things are hanging together, and I would like to praise the interpellants for addressing these important questions of a more general debate in the Storting. As the representative Gundersen said, we are in a phase now that we are in a way preparing the ground. It's like building a house, so it's important to fix the plot before you start setting up the house, and a lot of the discussion that we now have is a kind of preparation for what's going to come later. I want to start by saying a few words about action against the financial crisis. These measures characterise the budget for both 2009 and 2010. What was important for the Government at the time of the financial crisis in September 2008 was to build an immediate protection around the banking system so that it could sustain the financial sector in a sensible and good way. An increased scope for export guarantees, and later, in January 2009, the incentive package came to municipalities and others to sustain the activity of the economy. I think one can now establish that this operation was successful. It meant that Norway has so far come through the financial crisis in a good way. One has managed to keep up production in large quantities, and one has the ability – not least – to keep unemployment down and employment up. So you can ask yourself the question, as the interpellant does: how important is it to have a strong mainland industry? The answer to that is quite simple: it's very important! For it is that over time it is the income from what we call the mainland business, which is to fill in the gap that will gradually arise between expenditure, or payments — in particular for pensions, health and care services — and the ever-declining revenue from the oil business. So working constantly and constantly with competitiveness, and working all the time to strengthen the basis of production in mainland Norway, is actually one of the most important areas of economic policy. It is important that our competitive industry should have a certain breadth, and I think that is one of the reasons why we have managed relatively well through the financial crisis – those who have supplied, for example. to the car industry, has had major problems – other parts of the workshop industry, the breeding industry and other industries are solid and world-class. So point one: it is important that we have a broad range in the competitive industry and in the competitive economy. The second is that industry itself must have good adaptability. We've seen that from the middle of the 1970s there was a crisis, for example. the shipbuilding industry. It was at the beginning of the oil age. But the engineering industry has shown a unique ability to adapt over the 20-30 years, so that today we have one of the world's leading and best mechanical and technological industries. It has something to do with adaptability, and it's important, no matter how a turn and turn on it. The third point that is important is to have a well-qualified workforce — to ensure that the labour force is always competent and well-trained. It is becoming increasingly important over time – not just because my generation of industrial workers are approaching 62 years of age and the age of contractual retirement. But re-recruiting into parts of our industry becomes a very central point in the future. The companies themselves must bear a responsibility. The way in which a person organises production ensures that an individual also has internal measures to keep the workforce both competent and motivated, and not least in negotiations on wages and salaries between the trade unions and the employer, what is going on in central wage negotiations and what is going on in the individual enterprise is important. The company itself therefore has a large and significant responsibility to keep up and maintain the competitiveness of its business and industry. Internal research and development is another keyword that can be used in this context. If one looks at the responsibility of the state, to use that expression, it is that the state has overall responsibility for economic policy. The state must, through economic policy arrangements, ensure that the pressure is reduced, primarily on monetary policy, so as to facilitate a good and sensible settlement of income. The interaction between financial policy, income policy and monetary policy is essential for the success of maintaining and developing competitiveness. One way the country can ‘light’ the pressure on income statements is, for example: through an active labour market policy and a good education policy, which will prevent exclusion from the labour market. It is through investment in education and research that future generations will receive a good and solid education, which is at the forefront. At the same time, one should also stimulate good practice and good in-house training and upgrading the skills and knowledge of workers. Social investment in infrastructure — and, of course, other framework conditions, such as taxes, etc. – also means a lot to competitiveness. I believe that in total Norway has a tax system that stands out well in international competition, and which I believe is at least no obstacle to doing good business based on Norway. I also believe that the value of the social security network – the fact that there is relatively little difference between people in Norway, that you have good social arrangements for those who, for any other reason, are out of work – is underestimated in the context of having a motivated and good workforce and, to some extent, underestimated in relation to the importance of competitiveness. So I've already mentioned it, but it's important to include in this discussion, too, that having a solid and up-to-date financial industry, helping you have a good framework around the financial industry, helping to facilitate soundness around the financial industry through regulation, deposit guarantee and various other parts of that side of the policy, is unusually important. In the early 1990s, when we saw very clearly that one had to take a roof to build up under the 'blood circulation' that the financial industry is in the economy. It is also important for the state, through its foreign policy interests, to take good care of Norway’s interests abroad. Finally, a little bit about Dutch disease. That's an expression that comes from making a very quick use of a lot of income you get, for example. from gas or oil, and use them to generate a level of expenditure that is not portable when the revenues are lost. Since we've found oil in Norway, and ever since the first oil revenues began to enter the Norwegian economy, we've had a kind of rule of action to counteract Dutch ill people, and that's the fact that oil revenues are generally used to smooth fluctuations in the Norwegian economy. Now it is expressed through deposits in the State pension fund — Foreign. I think the most important thing we can contribute from the Storting in that context is to build up under the credibility of the rule of action. Sending a signal e.g. To the rest of the world that now the rule of action is not so dangerous anymore is one of the most dangerous things we can do, because then the rule of action loses credibility. There are many ways in which people can contribute to the fact that Norway has a rule to adhere to and has a long-term economic policy. After all, it is perhaps the most important thing we can do to ensure that Norwegian competitiveness is good in the future – to have a long-term, comprehensive and sustainable economic policy.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1052	Thank you for the answer from the Minister of Finance. I perceive that he comes with many of the signals he has given throughout the harvest, and there is a lot to agree with. I very much agree that the safety net we have in Norway is also important for value creation, but there will also be a balance there. Providing security can also weigh slightly against innovation, risk and innovation. So everything has its balance, but I think it's so decided that the safety net is also important for value creation and competitiveness. The finance minister was also concerned with the responsibility of the companies, and I very much agree with that: the division of roles in the Norwegian economy must be very clear. It is the role of politics and the state to facilitate the framework, and then it is the responsibility of businesses to adapt it. I see that our new Minister of Economic Affairs is out and maybe will interfere a little bit with some companies' decisions about investments and stuff like that. But that discussion we get to take elsewhere. At least I'm very much in line with the Minister of Finance when it comes to the importance of the role clarification. I think it's interesting with the rule of action, because it's also my opinion that holding on to the rule of action is important, and that it's incredibly important to expand the international markets and for the Norwegian economy to develop well further. It's very central. I have noted the debate that has been around the rule of action. It is largely a matter of returning to the policy of action as it was originally, and it was such that it was also a requirement for how the money was to be used. They were to be used for research, education, transport and growth-promoting tax relief. So until the content has been eroded, I would say that I hope that the Minister of Finance is happy to bring it back, because it has a lot to do with the credibility of the rule of action. Finally, we have come through the financial crisis well. I'm not going to spend a lot of time on it. We've done it without unemployment blowing to the ground, and we've basically done well. But the problem we are seeing today is this with reversibility on some expenditure pages, and I will quote Professor Ulltveit-Moe at the University of Oslo. She says, ‘In the 2010 budget presented, the interim measures have been replaced by expenditure of a much more permanent nature’. Then she writes: ‘Higher depreciation rates, lower employer’s tax rates and tax incentives for business can be introduced for a limited period of time. On the other hand, redundancies in the public sector are more difficult.' There may also be some of the main challenge for the Minister of Finance in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1073	I, as probably many others, lack the ability to throw old papers. I knew I had it, and when I traveled from Hamar and into here now, I found again St.meld. No 25 for 1973–74, which is the big message, on some and twenty pages, which in a way outlines the phase-in of oil revenues and oil activities in the Norwegian economy. I have great pleasure in reading it. There are probably some points where I have to lift a little bit on the eyebrows, but this basic idea that lies there, that this is a kind of additional income that Norway gets, and that we're going to deal with oil revenues in a long-term perspective, is, of course, the foundation of this big business message. So I'll recommend reading it. It's done quickly, but there's a lot on those sides. So here the interpellant raises the question of phasing out the interim measures that are in progress in 2009 and 2010. Some of these measures are now being phased out, but it is true, as the representative Gundersen says, that some automatic expenditures have been introduced that show how difficult and how demanding this challenge is. There was a lot of what marked the previous interpellation debate today: how are we going to be able to mitigate the growth of expenditure in the heavy social systems? Then I want to focus my attention on what is happening in the workplace, that in the future we need to focus a lot more on the exclusion mechanism. What is it that makes about 600,000 people in what we call working age, either permanent or partial, and at any time, out of work? One could make a calculation that said that if we manage to reduce the rate of expansion, a lot of the job would actually be done in order to bring the Norwegian economy back to the rule of action within a reasonable time. Then I am so glad that the interpellant did not place any more emphasis on this international study. One gets to take it for what it is, because it's right, as the interpellant also said, here's the different criteria that you have to follow up. There are some who are a little more important than others, etc., but on that occasion I remember from my last round as Minister of Finance a union of the Finance Minister of the Year. There was Norway in the eighth place, and what drew Norway down was a section called political risk. Then I shook my head a little. It was also the Indian minister who won that coup. So one gets to do a lot of research with a pinch of salt -- that's basically what was my message.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1084	It would have been fun to start with a free drink or speculation about what the foreigners were at ‘political risk’ with a finance minister named Sigbjørn Johnsen at the wheel, but I think we should leave it. The Minister of Finance points to something very important at the end of his three-minute post, because the study to which the interpellant refers quite correctly, and which is a very important debate on the competitiveness of Norwegian business in the future, shows that Norway is in the elite series among countries around the world. Let's say we're in the fifth or the tenth place. You don't want to miss the fact that you've gone down some places, that's not what I mean, but if you're in the state of Norway now, you're in the elite series of international competitiveness. It has gone so far that in Norway we have even had to set down a research project, led by Kalle Moene at the University of Oslo, because it is demanding for very many professionals around the world to explain how Norway can be in the elite series in terms of competitiveness for Norwegian business, while at the same time having a very comprehensive welfare state, perhaps one of the most comprehensive worlds has seen in very many years. What has already come from there is very exciting. But I believe that there is already reason to say that we are doing very well in competition with foreigners because we have a good, effective welfare state – which can be much better, but which has a lot of good in it – which is the foundation for growth in business as well. We also have a very adaptable and efficient business that has been able to become more efficient and productive over many years. Not least, we have made it clear, with varying governments, that we have an economically responsible policy, which makes foreigners and people who want to invest their money believe in us when we say that it is important for us both to attract capital and to create jobs in the country. The value of work in Norway is very fundamental, and it is quite tragic that we have so many people who are out of work. It's tragic for several reasons. We have it purely economically. It's quite right, as the Minister of Finance says, that if we had managed to bring down some of the growth, we would have been on the target right away in terms of the rule of action. And the situation is very tragic for many of those who experience being pushed out of work. I think that discussion will give us ample opportunity to take place during the winter, because we have major challenges in financing the welfare state. Not least the cost of popular fear is a cause for concern. I believe that the most important single factor that will determine whether Norwegian business has competitiveness in international terms in the years to come is whether we can jointly pursue an economic policy that makes it credible when we say that it is the rule of action that should be underpinned, and that we should pursue an economic policy that does not set interest rates, krone prices and Norwegian export-oriented business. It's really amazing how we've managed to establish that rule and establish some management principles for that fund. I am concerned about the trends of Dutch sick people in the sense that we can be involved in building up too much expenditure growth, which means that we put competitive industry under pressure. But if we handle our fund properly, we've managed to do something very brilliant. Then we've managed to make the new hydropower in Norway, an eternity machine that allows us to gradually live off the return, and actually never run out of money if we do it the right way. The problem is that it's not money there's a shortage in Norway, but people. Then we have to do the right measures to keep more people in the labour market longer, but also to make sure that people can get out of the different benefits and into the labour market. If I were interpellant from the Right and took up this important topic of debate, I would be worried about one thing. It is that I would then have the support of the Workers' Party and the Government that it is very important to pursue an economic policy that is credible and responsible. The problem on the civil side is that they have a party that says they are not interested in keeping the rule of action. They will reject it. They call off the entire economic policy that has been pursued in the country under varying governments. It would be very serious. I believe that the civil side also in the years to come has a responsibility to clarify those positions for the benefit of Norwegian business. Finally, I am very much in favour of discussing all possible proposals on what might be right to improve Norway’s long-term competitiveness. But I would warn you not to put any similarity between better framework conditions for business and lower taxes, which I always get the impression that different actors in Norwegian society and some politicians are doing. I want to warn you that we are permanently weakening well-being by reducing tax revenue. Then we can discuss the device on them, but I think it is far more important things that need to be addressed if we are to discuss Norwegian competitiveness in the future.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1103	The interpellant puts the search light on an important matter and has some good points. I'm a little surprised that the minister can't just say that we're going to have the ambition to become a no. 1 in the world of industrial activities. He's not even saying we're going to take the fifth place back and get up from the tenths place. We politicians should also have a competitive instinct! After looking at the Soria Moria II of the Government, I would say that unfortunately, very little is said about concrete measures to improve the framework conditions for business. It only says that it will ‘contribute to good and competitive framework conditions for Norwegian enterprises’. But what does that mean, exactly? But I would like to commend the Minister of Finance and the Government for writing in Soria Moria II that they will ‘implement simplifications specifically aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises’, and among other things. see the Accounting Act and the Share Act. [[...]] Of course, I'm waiting for that in suspense. In this context, I would like to draw attention to the proposal of the representatives of the Progress Party on simplifications in reporting, forms and legislation for business. It is Document 8:15 which is now under consideration in the Financial Committee. There, the Progress Party proposes 21 concrete simplification proposals such as: is supported by NHO and NARF. In the case of industrial activities in Norway, it was interesting to receive a new report from the Statistical Centre, which was actually mentioned in the Evening Post yesterday. Researcher Lasse Sigbjørn Stambøl in the Statistical Central Bureau has looked at birth and death for new self-employment over a period of eleven years. The report shows that it is very demanding to start up on its own here in Norway. Three out of five give up after three years. The figures show that women are worse off than men. It's worrying. Another study that gives a small hint of what status is for Norway is the annual ranking of The Wall Street Journal and The Heritage Foundation, where the ‘Index of Economic Freedom’ puts Norway far behind our neighbouring country in terms of economic freedom. The vast majority of other countries in northern Europe, such as the United States and Japan. Ireland, Denmark, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Estonia, Iceland, Luxembourg, Finland, Belgium, Austria, Germany and Sweden, are far better than Norway in this area. Norway is in a 28th place. The Wall Street Journal and The Heritage Foundation point out in particular that there is a high level of taxes and charges that reduce Norway. In addition, Norway receives a low level of freedom in the labour force and flexible labour market, including: due to rigid and rigid labour regulations. A third factor is that there is too much public administration, public intervention and public ownership. It is interesting in this context that Denmark scores relatively high in the labour force, and Denmark tops the list in the field of industrial freedom, while Norway achieves more than 10 pst. fewer points. Denmark, which is among the top ten in the world, is in an eighth place, with 79.6 points. Norway is in a 28th place, with 70.2 points. The interesting thing here is that in 2000 Denmark was worse off than Norway on the ranking, but in these eight years Denmark has passed Norway with a solid margin. So it's time to ask the Minister of Finance if he wants to do something to make Norway come back to the top ten countries in the world, also in economic freedom. And if the answer is positive, what do you actually want to do? I am fully aware that the red-green government and the red-green parties here on the Stortinget, as Torgeir Micaelsen mentioned, do not fully see the connection between tax relief and growth in business and the increase in the number of jobs, but when we have witnessed in the last year that even the state-owned energy company Statkraft has moved its internal bank to Brussels to save taxes, perhaps there should be a light for the most tax-free socialist in the government, who should perhaps think a little differently about it. By establishing the Statkraft Treasury Center with an equity of DKK 18 billion, it is clear that the company will save large amounts of tax, which would otherwise go to Norway, but which is now going to Belgium. I hope the Minister of Finance can set himself the goal that Norway should actually be the best country in the world to do business, that it will be easier to start a business and run it here in Norway, and that Norway actually attracts foreign capital, among other things. results in investor capital, new technology and knowledge, and also has positive ring-effects with jobs and subcontracting. I want to point out that it's actually now that we have the opportunity. Norway is one of the richest countries in the world. We have capital because we've got large oil revenues. I hope the government takes this with me.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1122	The interpellant has brought up some of the most important things that we can discuss in this house. It's Norwegian value creation and how we're going to prepare the basis for the well-being we all want in the future. What he's pointing at is that while we've put our heads on the oil sleeping cushion, we've slowly – and perhaps faster than slow, but at least surely – lost a lot of our competitiveness. And then we've partially been peppered with some results measurements from this pulpit today, about where we depend on the statistics of all the world. Then I think that the Financial Committee's head, Torgeir Micaelsen, has done this quite simply. He says we're in the elite series, and there we're going to stay – as I understand him – as long as the Workers' Party sits with the government of this country. Everything's fine, nothing's wrong, and so we can just keep aligning ourselves that it's going to be. Then I think I hear another, more ground-based and practical rhetoric and policy from the Minister of Finance. He will have praise for – I want to join the interpellant – that he speaks in a direction that the Right understands. Whether it's rose or rice to the Minister of Finance, get to be a little bit because who sees it. I want to say one thing to the Minister of Finance. In a lot of these posts that come from the Government, you go back to the financial crisis and say that this was solved excellently, and you refer to everything that was done then. Yeah, that's right, and the Storting totally agreed. But then we're going on. The banks are saved, to use a short version, but what's now the problem is that the ones that banks are supposed to serve, that's business, are saying they don't get to borrow money. So the Right doesn't mean that we're going to oblige banks to lend money to bad projects, but the Right believes that we're going to have a policy that makes business have the equity they need when they come and they're going to borrow money – and they don't have it at the moment. The reason for this is that it has been kept clear over the times that lie behind us, with significant tax increases over the last four years – up to DKK 10 billion a year for Norwegian business – and especially for the owners, who are the ones who have to put up with capital when it comes up with it. And the use of money according to the rules of action has not been followed either. We have smeared thinly in addition to the regulated expenditure and other welfare arrangements, and then we have forgotten to give priority to knowledge, research, infrastructure and, above all, tax relief, which I understood that the head of the Finance Committee did not like to talk about. I'll talk about it, and I already have. But the interpellant actually didn't talk about it. He invited to a completely different discussion. Then it is true that the companies themselves have a considerable responsibility, as the Minister of Finance says, but they have to be able to follow up that responsibility. I would like to say a few words about what the Minister of Finance and the Chairman of the Financial Committee had in common in their contributions. If it's connected, I don't know, but it's important, and it's about the credibility of the rule of action that needs to be kept in relation to the rest of the world. It was also the interpellant inside. It is important that the signals sent out that we now want to follow the rule of action, and that we want to follow it quickly, be understood, as the Minister of Finance has been. Signals will last for a while, but afterwards signals must be followed by action. It reminds me a little bit of Holberg's 'Policy Candemeister'. There's the expression that goes something like this: one thing is a chart to read, something else a ship to lead. It is precisely the task that the Minister of Finance has now repeatedly, at least rhetorically, assured us that he intends to take, he will lead the ship. But I think, in all modesty, that the help to read the chart will also be able to get from the Right, among other things. from the thoughts which have emerged through this interpellation.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1133	The Ministry of Finance is responsible for three key policy areas – monetary policy and interest rate policy first. In the opinion of the Centre Party, an interest rate policy must, in a normal situation, be such that it costs to borrow after tax and it pays to save. That's the foundation, and I'm glad that now it seems to be a greater respect for the fact that any market economy needs to build on. What is very problematic for Norway is that in this context we have a systemic error in relation to other countries because we have an unlimited debt-rate deduction for the private debt of individuals and no corresponding income for the most common debt item, namely house. This means that an interest rate in Norway is much more favourable for individuals than an interest rate abroad. There is a system error in which the Ministry of Finance has to enter as soon as possible. Point two, income policy. In Norway, we have a tradition of coordinated settlement. It's the Center Party a hot follower of. That we should support a fair payment for work as it arises in the ordinary market, without strong trade unions, we are followers of. In the future, there must be a focus on all of us who make 130-150 kroner per hour in their profession outside Stortinget. That's where the focus must be. There are very many of them who have difficulties financially compared to the level of costs we have. We have some branches where there are many trade unions, where there are many collective agreements in the same enterprise. It provides a basis for unfair wage fighting, which is problematic in a number of companies. It's an area that we also need to focus on. It cannot be that we should support a wage struggle that is such that one exploits his power in the organisation unfairly in relation to the many who are in the organisation and who serve the message. Furthermore, it is essential that the wage developments of the high-wage workers be mitigated in the future. If that is not possible, it will be very difficult to ensure an attitude towards the necessary tightening that we are now facing. It's central. Therefore, it was a mistake that one in the previous period took away the additional employer’s fee for the companies that paid their employees over 1 million. kr in wages and salaries. This helped us to get a further stretch in the fabric of income – a clear weakness. The last point I want to mention under the income policy is the government pay statements, and they have to be a model in terms of wages for those who make a lot of money. It's easier in the situation we're now in, where we have a completely different labour market than what we've had in the past. Therefore, one of the government wage and salary statements must have a clear view of the distribution of income between different types of work. As far as financial policy is concerned, in the view of the Centre Party, it is quite obvious that more needs to be invested, and less needs to be used for welfare improvements for those of us who serve well. Here we have another system error in which, through the cash principle, we both get welfare improvements and investments that systematically lead to welfare improvements gaining an advantage in the fight for scarce appropriations. There's something you have to look at. Within the framework of the policy of action, it is quite obvious that one must have a greater focus on investing, i.e. relocating financial assets from financial capital to business, and making it easier for business to operate in Norway. In this context, I take up again what the Centre Party has said many times: shrinking the country, where high-speed data communications through fiber to each individual house are a necessary reform that we need to start as soon as possible in a systematic and effective way. Furthermore, repositioning of financial assets, exemplified by investment aid and environmental technologies. When it comes to business and creating more, it's not uninteresting what we create. It's not uninteresting what kind of business we're betting on. Much of the business we get today is business that's not necessary, and we have too much of it from before, to say it directly. A number of the intermediates we now have in commerce and advertising are businesses that are actually a cost. We need to channel more resources into the business that produces goods and services in an international competition. We are facing major challenges, and we are also facing challenges in terms of bureaucracy. I would like to commend the SV representative Aksel Hagen who, in the debate, focused on bureaucracy. It's very important, not least for the red-green government.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1148	There is a very interesting issue between Gundersen and it is also a very important question that is asked: What is medicine to once again strengthen Norway's competitiveness internationally? Although that is the Minister of Finance's question in the first row is addressed, I will try to turn to an answer. The drug is on the lookout and show the same challenges that the Left has pointed to in its major choice programme: Taking the step into the low-emission society. Building the knowledge society. Reforming the welfare community. If Norway’s competitiveness is to be strengthened internationally, this is the answer: we need to focus on innovation, on education and research. We have to make things smarter and more sensible. The public sector needs to be renewed and modernised in order to ensure its well-being. We need to make the tax system attractive to those who want to invest in the environment and climate-friendly business, and we need to take the important and necessary steps so that we become part of the solution and not the problem of environmental and climate policy. If we do that, Norway's international competitive advantage will be great. But it requires both political courage and political will, which has so far been absent from the current government, even though the new finance minister should be commended for showing a completely different willingness to take these challenges seriously. The left shows the will to bet on the future. That is why, in our 2010 alternative budget, we give priority to the innovative environmental and climate-friendly business, research and education, environment and climate-friendly solutions and the renewal of the welfare state. In addition, we actively use the tax system to reward work, investment in jobs and environmental and health right behaviour. This budget harvest has revealed at least that the Government has a very instrumental relationship with the tax system. It shall bring money into the community — point. Where the Left will actively use the tax system to change behaviour and to stimulate innovation, the Government is only concerned about cheap rhetoric, about ‘taking the rich’ and getting money, so that public expenditure can continue to increase. Let me take two concrete examples from the Stortinges budgetary process, and then I won't mention biodiesel. A number of representatives from the government parties attacked the Left in the finance debate because we said we would give $69 000 in tax bills to the richest by proposing to reintroduce the 15 pst. The share discount in the property tax – the same discount that the government thought was quite ok, yes, almost perfect, in 2007. Where the Left sees the stock discount as an instrument to create more jobs, to get more people to invest their savings in Norwegian companies instead of having them in the bank, and to get a spread of private ownership in Norwegian business, the Government sees itself blind to ‘taking the rich’. Another example is our proposal to reintroduce tax exemptions for treatment costs paid by the employer. Here, the Government is concerned about increasing sick leave and setting up expert committees to investigate measures, but supporting the measures that we know have an effect, which are getting more quickly back to work, the Government refuses to be involved because there may be some rich ones that would get a little more tax relief in that case. The government has used its first four years of targeted precision to make conditions more difficult for those who want to start and run businesses in this country. You can hide behind statistics that Norway is the tenth best country in the world to do business, but the truth is that it's going in the wrong direction, and it's going pretty dramatic in the wrong direction. The promises, if we can call it something like that, from Soria Moria II, are also not uplifting. For example, the word ‘founder’ is: not mentioned once. It says what focus it is on innovation at the Government. The word ‘innovation’ is, in the name of justice, referred to a number of times, but then in the context of sea food — in and of itself affordable enough. For me and the Left, there is no doubt that there must be a completely different political will to strengthen Norway's competitiveness internationally. Several cutting-edge research and education policies, the absence of willingness to stimulate behaviour in the tax system and the lack of willingness to reform the public sector will lead to a further decline in statistics in Norway. However, I can see new signals from the Minister of Finance, and he will have the job he needs. I can promise that all the good measures that will come will be supported by us from the Left. We look forward to these good measures that the Minister of Finance can put forward. In conclusion, I would like to add that I recommend the Minister of Finance to read the 2010 Spring Alternative State Budget, before just over the New Year he will start the important and challenging work of creating a new state budget for 2011.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1185	The representative Per Olaf Lundteg is asking for the floor. The President then refers to Section 50 of Stortingen’s Rules of Procedure, which states that each representative can have the floor once after the inter-pellant for up to 5 minutes. That way Lundtigen cannot have the word twice.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1188	The interpellant shall be praised for addressing an important theme, namely the international competitiveness of Norway. Norwegian business has gone very well in the years from 2005 until the international financial crisis took place last autumn. Although I hear that there are divided opinions in this debate, I do believe that the government's strong measures to counter the recession have been successful, and that more trade unions now believe that Norway is on its way out of the crisis. Government parties are very concerned with Norwegian competitiveness. Export-oriented business is important for us to have a high level of well-being, and it is essential that we have framework conditions that can strengthen our competitiveness. For the government parties, it is therefore essential that we keep order in the economy, so that we contribute to low interest rates and a dollar rate that is correct in relation to the currency of other countries. In Norway, we have a large public sector that contributes to value creation. Recent research shows that the Scandinavian model with a high level of well-being and centralised wage-fixing contributes to productivity growth and a high level of innovation in addition to high employment. A high level of well-being in itself promotes growth, but I agree with the inter-pellant that public spending should be sustainable in the sense that we do not spend more money in the public sector than the economy can bear. I don't think we're developing any Dutch disease in Norway under the current government and the majority we have in Stortinget. We have already heard in the course of the next year's discussion of the budget, and in several other contexts, the Minister of Finance's clear statement that we are going into oil money use and that work on it has started. He fully supports his views of the majority. We do not want to jeopardize jobs by contributing to a high interest rate and a stronger exchange rate. State pension fund – Foreign countries are designed to avoid Dutch sick people. By just using the return of the fund and not the fund itself, we will in principle, as Torgeir Micaelsen said, not run out of oil money. That was Holland's problem in the 1970s. They were left with a broken industry and an excessive public sector they could not finance after having used up the revenues from natural gas resources. At home, we need to have a public sector that is constantly changing and has a sustainable scale. I believe that we see a great will in the public sector to do so. Most of the time, I think it is political that we make the most of more money for all good purposes in the public sector, even though we know that money alone does not solve all the challenges. Norway is a good country for business. It shows all the statistics, including the one to which the interpellant refers. The government’s industrial policy in recent years has produced good results. We facilitate innovation and research. In the government budget for next year, there is a strong commitment to research. It is proposed that research and development be carried out throughout the country. The regional research funds, established this year, will be used next year. Together with the Research Council's programme for regional innovation and funding for Innovation Norway and SIVA, it will help to increase the number of companies in the industry that are currently struggling. We see that more companies in the offshore supply industry are now using their skills to develop new green jobs. In this context, it is essential that they are closely linked to the research and development environments that exist regionally, and to which I know that the interpellant is skeptical. But these are also the entrances to national and international research projects, which become important for developing Norwegian export-oriented industry so that it is equipped to meet the future. Norway has a good education system, but we see that we have a big challenge when many fall out of high school. We're going to do a lot of work on that in the future. In the previous period, we focused a lot on early work when it came to basic skills such as reading, writing and math. We must continue to focus on that, while developing the Norwegian single school so that all things can complete the 13-year-old course. In view of both a good adult life and participation in the labour market, it is crucial. We have no youth to lose if we are to maintain both a competitive business and a high level of well-being in Norway in the future. I think this focus needs to be one of the governing elements in the difficult priority debate that is now coming, related to less oil money use and to our fear of developing Dutch sick people.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1207	The international financial crisis and the recession in the world economy have posed major challenges to the Norwegian economy. The Minister of Finance presented all the measures taken in connection with this, both last year and this year. The measures have worked. Credit markets have improved, and people get loans back. The expected sharp increase in unemployment has decreased. In a number of countries, policy authorities have put in place strong fiscal policies to stimulate activity in the economy. Norway is probably among the countries that have put in place the strongest incentives. Indisposedly, we might say that Norway has been among the countries that have been most successful in tackling the financial crisis. This is confirmed both in the OECD and in the IMF — these boasts of Norwegian economic policy in their reports. In addition, we have received an honest report in The New York Times. Government parties are concerned with Norway’s competitiveness. The export sector is very important for us to have a high level of well-being, and it is very important that we base framework conditions that can strengthen our competitiveness. The main area of our policy is to conduct a responsible economic policy that contributes to low interest rates and correct exchange rates. We've done this, and we're going to keep doing that. Economic stability and stable framework conditions are also very important for all government parties. Active labour market policies are important for the effectiveness of working life and to prevent long-term unemployment. Well-developed infrastructure are other key areas of our policy to improve competitiveness. Among other things, we have increased the appropriations for the road and the track by over 9 billion kroner since 2005. It also appears that the Scandinavian model, with a high level of well-being and centralised wage-fixing, contributes to productivity growth and a high level of innovation, as well as high employment. Norwegian enterprises are competitive in a global market. Statistics show that in the last period more new jobs were created than in a few four-year period, probably since the 1950s. We facilitate innovation and research. The state budget for 2010 is the largest ever in research. Norwegian industry has a high level of competence in environmental technologies and, by investing in environmental technologies, we can strengthen the competitiveness of Norwegian industry and promote industrial development, which will help Norway to achieve its environmental objectives in the next round. Work has also been started to look at the red tape of SMEs in particular. This is about share law, it's about accounting law, and it's about reporting. During the financial debate last week, some teams suggested that the rule of action was almost non-existent. As far as the rule of action is concerned, it is undeniable that we are dealing with this. Many are wrongly trying to claim that the rule of action is the same as being on the 4 pst track every year – almost at any time. This is wrong. The rule of action is a plan for a gradual increase in the use of oil revenues, approximately in line with the development of expected real returns, and it is estimated at 4 pst. At the same time, it opens up the possibility that the use of petroleum revenues may vary from the 4 pst track each year to help balance fluctuations in the economy. In other words, the rule of action is not a 4 pst. return every year, but on average over time. In good times you have to use less, while in bad times you have to use more – to get the wheels going. NHO member enterprises expect to fall in employment by 2010. In addition to industry, there is a high estimate of lay-offs and redundancies in construction and travel. In total, every fourth enterprise expects to leave or cancel employees in the next three months. This shows that the government made the right choice when it promoted a weakly expansive budget for 2010. We need to think about competitiveness in a large context, including: dialogue or interaction with the social partners is an important piece. At the same time, fluctuations in the international economy affect our own economy to such an extent that we need to be able to take action in the short term – measures that can have long-term positive effects.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1230	Through this interpellant, I have focused on a debate that I feel that in many ways we should have in Stortinget at regular intervals. In fact, this is about the possibility and ability to meet the competition out there, to allow Norwegian companies and Norwegian businesses to compete on equal terms and not least to be able to deliver what we have done for a number of years. In the last year, the debate has been about the financial crisis in many ways, as in many other countries – and that is quite natural. It is a matter of introducing specific measures to address the situation. But in that debate, it is important that we do not forget the general framework conditions that make it possible for business to function in the long term, which means that they will be able to compete for many years. Not least, it is important that we also focus on the fact that Norwegian industry is largely influenced by many small and medium-sized enterprises. In many ways, many of these enterprises fall into the current debate. We have a lot of focus on the big industries. We know that when, among other things, on the shipping industry, we've only seen a little bit of the effect that might come, because the word drought is big -- yeah, it's very dry out there, to say it like that -- and it's almost in the whole industry if a yard gets a contract of a ship. When we also know that our largest financial institutions now do not finance new buildings within, among other things. offshore if the ship does not have long-term contracts, it goes without saying that one can encounter tough times. I think it's important that we look up a little bit in terms of what's going on in terms of competition, and not only do we look blindly at what we normally discuss about this field. It is obvious that when the G10 countries have now reached agreement, as we have seen as late as today, on a statement that we are going to go against a tariff, it will meet us at the other end, when our companies are going to compete in an international market for the sale of, for example, goods. fish. Clearly, if we pursue a protectionist policy in the agricultural sector, Norwegian businesses will be faced with barriers to the trade we want in the next round. We have seen – at least it has been claimed among some – that in terms of conditions attached to, among others. the shipbuilding industry, when preparing tenders, shall use the language in which they are to be used in that country. It goes without saying that if a Norwegian company is to compete for the construction of ferries abroad, for example. Turkey or another country, it would be a problem if all documents were to be printed in the local language. It has been met, and it has been made clear. With regard to the development of sick leave in Norway and payments to various social security schemes, shifting more of these expenditures to business would weaken the competitiveness of Norwegian enterprises in relation to the countries and businesses with which we compete. It's a problem that I fear will get bigger if we don't reverse this development, and Norway must not go into the trap that some other countries have already gone into, by introducing the closest protectionist measures. We have to be careful that we do not get into a situation where we do not get to take advantage of our labour force, because we have too much absence and absence from work, and people do not get into working life. If we look at the form field, the bureaucracy etc. In recent years in Norway, we will see that we have a very long way to go. We've been talking for years about reducing the form field and having fewer instances to report to, but when we look at the outcome of it, we have nothing to be proud of there. We have a long way to go, and I hope you'll soon start taking this seriously. Especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, which also compete internationally, it is important that we do something about this, as there is an additional cost that also helps to weaken their competitiveness.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1247	I would like to thank you for the debate and for many good contributions. Something I agree with, and other things I don't agree with, but that's what it will always be. When Opheim talks about red tape, “you’re probably sprintering at the speed of a tortoise,” I think you’ll get answers in business if you ask about developments there. I have also, on my own, confirmed why, at the moment, it might be easier to hit the Left in cooperation than to hit the Center Party, at least. When Lundtigen talks about having too many companies of a kind from before, there's a kind of system regulation that might remind you that the Soviet regime fell a few years ago, for some reason. I think the debate has been good in many ways. I think the finance minister, as the fleet said, speaks a language and focuses on challenges that I understand very well. As far as the chairman of the Financial Committee is concerned, I note that he may have a slightly longer way to go before I'm fully in line with all his challenges. I understand, for example. not that we cannot get a tax debate that is aimed at much of what Nesvik was about. We have as many small and medium-sized enterprises in Norway as neither risk access nor framework conditions similar to the large listed companies, on which it is very often focused. The SME sector is crucial for future value creation in Norway. I don't understand that you can't leave the rhetorical take-off from the rich-debate and get down to a reasonable debate right around there, because the challenges are too many of the small and medium-sized enterprises, which also had to deal with the Fleet. The head of the Finance Committee also spoke about the importance of the fund – it was going to be an eternity machine, he said, from which we can live. I think that's one of the most dangerous things, if we start to think we can start living off of it. For all we have to live by, it's actually developing what we have inside our heads -- what the total population has inside our heads. It is human capital that will be crucial for Norwegian competitiveness in the future. That's where we need to focus. The fund is always going to be, as the Minister of Finance said, an additional income. That's what we've done so well, that the rest of the world has also considered it an additional income. It's actually quite phenomenal that a country can build up that kind of reserve capital without the rest of the world also starting to include it as part of the regular economy. It's a huge challenge to keep it like this. I think a lot of the success of keeping the dollar price down is that we succeed in continuing to signal it. That is why I, at least, have been unambiguous about the rule of action; rather, it must be tightened up in relation to the quality of the use of the money. Dropping the rule of action as a concept I think will be a major step in the situation Norway is in now.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1262	I like interpellation debates. The reason is that in many ways there is a kind of breathing room in the sense that we can use this kind of debate to raise our eyes. I think that is good for the political debate in general. Let me just say a few words now at the end of this debate. The history of Norway is in many ways a story of greater cooperation for a common idea, but it is also the story of conflict, where one has disagreed on important parts of the road choices. It's still going to be like that. That means there will be different views between Right-People and Workers' Party people about taxes. It's part of the political discussion. This basic idea has built up that one should try to build a welfare that is better for the next generation than the one we have, and the one we had. Now we've reached a crossroads where we have to ask ourselves the question – and I think it's going to be one of the most important things in the future discussion: Is the next generation able to carry on with today's well-being? It's this generation contract that I've been talking about in other contexts, which will be the important thing in the future. I think it's in this light one has to see the discussion today, and that's really what this debate is about. The history of Norway is also the story of the great natural resources that have become our part: the hydropower, the oil, the fish and other things. The main point is that we had not been able to do this without good people, wise heads and strong hands. It's about the labour force, and it's about the future of the labour force, which I've been up to in the past. Often when I think about this, I go back to another Minister of Finance, who was Minister of Finance in 1946, namely Erik Brofoss. He ended one of the most legendary posts in the Storting, which lasted for 2 hours and 50 minutes, saying that we live not by others, but by each other's work. That's kind of the basic idea. The welfare model is important – it is the inter-pellant and the undersigned agreed. Health and income security when the times of work are not so good is essential. I would like to say that the fundamental rights of workers are important for Norwegian competitiveness. If economic freedom means you're going to rock this, I'm deeply in disagreement. So important is not a first place for me on this ranking. At the end of the day, it will probably be about building credibility into economic policy, and I think we can contribute to it together. It is noted beyond the borders of Norway that one in this room agreed on a broad pension settlement. It is in a way a quality mark also in the Norwegian political debate, which is important in a slightly longer and wider context.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1279	Case No. So 3 is over. The President is pleased that we have no posts of 2 hours and 50 minutes!
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1296	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 632]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1313	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 632]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1330	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 632]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1347	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 632]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1364	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 632]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1381	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 632]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1398	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 633]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1416	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 633]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1433	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 633]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1450	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 633]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1467	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 633]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1484	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 633]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1501	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 633]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1518	No one has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1535	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 633]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1552	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 633]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1569	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 633]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1586	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 633]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1604	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 633]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1621	No one has asked for the floor. [[See page 634]]
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1629	The size goes to voting in case No. 4-23.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1639	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1647	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1655	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1663	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1671	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1679	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1687	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1695	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1704	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1712	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1720	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1728	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1736	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1744	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1752	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1760	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1768	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1776	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1784	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1793	There is no proposal for a comment, and the Bill of the Storting has thus been approved at the second reading and will be sent to the King in accordance with the Constitution.
ParlaMint-NO_2009-12-01.ana.ud847e1845	Thus, today's map has been processed. Does anyone require a word before the meeting is cancelled? - The meeting's been cancelled.
